aerating”

a7 ne. mY JANUARY: 1957.

CONTENTS

Articles:
L’art Pisade-Kimer. au Sita et Ta Prang

By Dr. H. Parmentier me
The Tomb of Xuan-léc (Cochin-China)

By Dr. E. Gaspardone |
Literary and Epigraphic Notes

By Mr. Himansu Bhusan Sarkar
Five Reliefs at Poelo i in Tapanoeli: (Sumatra)

‘By Dr. F. M. Schnitger

“Miscellany:
Kal and Munda: A New Aspect of Austro-Asiatic
Problem Ht
By, Dr-. J. Prayluski

peels of Western dese about jodia
By Dr. Herman Goetz

Notices of Books... fy oe peal

. A. H, Longhurst, The Story ot the Stapa Ch N,
Banetico): F. M. Schnitger, Oudheidkundige Vondsten in
Padang, Lawas; Hindoe- -Oudheden, aan de Batang I

; Judheidkundige in Palembang ; +H Oy Eggink _Angke

or fndian, culture ay “Greater India
Indo-China and Tngulindial, as well as
: untries of Asiatic ite
‘of: the»results’ of ‘reaearcltes | ito. er
: relations’ with the outside:

‘interest, in the history of. ¢
the students in the schools
adia by instituting a ‘systematic study
t take proper steps to stimulate the same. ge OE,
knowledge ‘of Greater. India “ep Sreanising mass
: exhibitions and conferences. ;

LMANTRAL ARCH AEOLOGIt ab
LIBRARY, ey EW DELHI.

* .
Agee Bo... Ke A Sows —
*

gh

4 *
wate (0:2 De tae aa ow.

Call Ke OocveeLesnbceDenentetanenbtnate |
\ rea eed)
5 aT “APY KE * ag

a

, a ae m , —
BI, 0S if JOURNAL :

ayes ye 7 ir? : ;

pe AA pr
‘ vU969
af aS see Oe a OF THE.

GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

4

Vou.IV  —s danuary,1937 ‘~~ No.1

L'art Pseudo-Khmeér au Siam et la Prang* —

By Dr. H. Parmentier
[English résumé by Dr. Batakrishna Ghosh ]

The date of a structure can be determined in two
independent ways: by utilising the texts, particularly
the inscriptions on the monuments themselves; and by
studying all the architectural and decorative elements
assigning every monument to an evolutional series of
which certain points are. aceurately datable.

These two methods should ‘Tend “mutual support "to
Ri other, as they are rarely able separately to furnish
a dependable criterion. Moreover, reshuffling of old
structures has been quite frequent. An architectural
study of Siamese monuments resulting in greater pre-
cision regarding the relevant facts can therefore
largely help we determination of the fase of these inecr

* This important article, whieh throws new light on the’ ee
history of Siamese architecture, is printed i in the original French as
a translation would. ‘fail, to Ge: justice. to the technicalities and

a aioe aera lets Sector Rae oactem ANT

2 7 H. PARMENTIER

It is commonly held that a certain number of
Siamese edifices in stone are of Khmér inspiration. The
result is thatthe Siamese prang is considered to be the
normal sequence of the Khmér prasdt. This theory is
true only to a partial extent.

The monuments of Siam which may be approached
from the point of view of Khmér art, fall into two
groups: the first group consists of a small number of
edifices, clearly Khmér, as can be inferred from the
material employed as also from the technique of execution.
In these monuments are found sand-stone and brick used
without any perceptible mortar, and the decorations
are chiselled on the sand-stone of the main structure
or on the blocks placed in the middle of the brickwork.
Judging by their form and inscriptions, they can be placed
in the llth and the 12th centuries,—an epoch when
Siam was aKhmér province. This group, of which the
origin is certain, consists of five monuments,—P‘imai 447,
Nom Van 487, the Phnom Rui 401, Mu’ang yim 404, and
the Pr, Ban Si, -

The second growp consisting of isolated iowers or of
frontal groups of three, which most often formed the
centre of immense Wits, are of less transparent style.
This type is represented by seventeen monuments, If
their massiveness suggests Khmér influence, their con.
struction in laterite or in brick joined with mortar
differentiates them from the art of Cambodia, from which
their decoration, obtained solely by the applications of
plaster, is clearly different.

From a detailed study of the auehiveeture of this
group, it is possible to distinguish therein seven monu-
ments of truly Khmér. origin, characterized by their
mode of construction | which is different from that of
Siam, although. modified in their external aspect by the
use of plaster. They are the Wat-Sdn P‘ré Sta Maéng and
the W. Prk P‘ai ‘Luéng of Sakhét’si, the W. Sdn P‘rd
hes the W. ‘Nak‘on es the W. Deva Sathan Pran
ag

L'ART PSEUDO-KHMER AU SIAM ET LE PRANG 3

and the W. Prang Sém Y6't of Lip‘buri, the W. Kham
Pam Leng of P’ec’aburi. Their forms are not character-
istic enough to permit their dating with precision,
All that can be said is that the first five—and parti-
cularly the second—appear to be anterior to the royal
buildings of Cambodia: they should have therefore been
erected during the first period of Khmér domination. The
last two temples might be of later origin and date from the
end of the 12th century or from even 13th century.

The ten other monuments of this group should be
regarded as pseudo-Khmér. Their possible dates range
from the llth century to the beginning of the 13th. If
they are compared with the Cambodian monuments of
this epoch, some resemblance truly comes to light, but it is
vague, and it is not only the plaster which differentiat-
es them, but also the whole process of construction.

The Khmérs utilised brick at atime when they were
not yet past masters in the use of sand-stone. It
reigns supreme in the biggest temples. It is accompanied
by the plaster, but ceases to be utilised from the end of
the 10th century. When the sand-stone begins to form
the body of the biggest monuments—in the llth century
and in the first half of the 12th—the brick has no more
than a partial utility. Afterwards it disappears completely.

In the Siamese monuments which we are considering
none of these features can be seen, nor ‘the characteris-
tic disposition of the Cambodian art of this epoch:
the enclosure of galleries, composition of halls and vesti-
bules in three naves which are mostly false, the triumph
of seulpture which becomes a constituent part of architec-
ture, and the common use of false windows. Nothing
of all this can be found in Siam where the brick joined by
an apparent mortar is in common use, and the laterite

(utilised sometimes in enormus masses. in Cambodia) is cut

into the form and volume of a big brick.
The countries of the Far East. that were influenced by
the Indian civilisation other then Siam ‘present a clear

4 _ H. PARMENTIER

picture of artistic evolution. One can observe there
the Indian culture installing itself and expanding into a
new original art by absorbing the local tendencies, and
finally effacing itself before the triumph of the: latter.
Then the architecture ceases to employ any more durable
materials and returns to the lighter indigenous construc-
tion in which only the persistence of some motifs indicates
the past existence of along foreign influence. This is the
history of Java, Burma, Campi and Cambodia. In Siam
there is found at no period an original and homogencaus
art, and the statuary, which offers the clearest tableau,
shows series of successive schools which are almost in-
dependent of each other. In architecture too this strange
variety is to be found. The light Vihdra of India in
superimposed storeys, for instance, has been transformed
inthe Far Eastintoa series of distinct types: in Java
the lowest storey becomes preponderant and the other
storeys are reduced and are covered by the stupa; in
Campa and in Cambodia the whole complex assumes the
aspect of a pyramid more or less slim, whereas in
China, Japan and Tonkin (Binh-sin, BE., XXXII, pl.
X XXIII) the storeys retain the same dimensions and
form the classical “‘pagoda.’’ Now all these types, separate
in other countries, are united in Siam.

From the variety of structural models met with in
Siam, and from the strangeness of certain decorative
motifs on the plaster, it may be inferred that the country
received a series of distinct art-tradition from a common
souree. Moreover, we have to take into account the
constant use of light structures by the side of exceptional
edifices in durable masonry: From this the evolution of
Siamese art, said to be Khmér, and the birth of the prang
are explicable by the following hypothesis :

The Cambodians at the time of their domination over
Siam constructed a whole series of monuments of which
only a small number, made of durable material, have come
down to us.  Pfimai.is the type of these monuments.

L’ART PSEUDO-KHMER AU SIAM ET LE PRANG 5:

From the end of the 10th to that of the 13th century this
model is also found in Cambodia. There also the prasdt
is regularly preceded by a big hall of masonry imitating
an edifice with three naves, Very often the lateral and the
posterior doors of the tower. do not, as before, give access to
the sanctuary, but are protected by a graceful contrivance
{a porch before which the door, still genuine, is repeated
again), while in the principal axis a fourth porch joins
the sanctuary with the anterior hall.

If we now turn towards the specimen. of teenda: KHMe
edifices which are most intact and least Siamised, we shall
find a schematisation of this type which is quite advanced
but still distinctly. recognisable. This is particularly
the case with the central prang of W. Mahatha‘at of
Lip‘buri and of the ruined edifice of Culamini.

Of all that has been erected in Siam in light structure
nothing has bean preserved, and the earliest stages of
evolution which are accessible to us are the translations in
laterite which the Siamese set wp by replacing the frame-
work -of wood with durable materials set on Burmese
mortar. From that time the structures continue to exist
to the present age and their evolution becomes quite clear.

Culami&ni tends to lose its windows of the porch of the
nave, Raj Bunah and P‘utth‘aisivin have no longer any
vestibule and the lateral doors of the nave become false;
they are no longer present in the prang of the W. Maha-
th‘at of Sa&vénkSldk and itis not at all to be seen before
that of P‘isnulék'. The transformation of the prasdt into
prang seems to have gone hand in hand with the
transformations of the anterior hall. The first group still
clearly reveals the arris of the square of false bays; the
edifice is only slightly too stretched to be regarded as an
ordinary prasat. The third-and the fourth already tend
to sink the arris of the square by reducing | the false bays
and lose even the lotuses above; the fifth has no longer
any false bays and replaces. each of them by an enormour
ornament ;-the sixth still bears traces: of ‘a vague souvenir

Later BRASS, Ui chee SO Ay Se SEPT Ce
6 . H. PARMENTIER

of the false bays, but the principal arris becomes lesser
still and is completely effaced in the last. The terminal
part with lotus which is perceptible at the beginning is
rapidly lost, the number of stages passes from five to seven
or more and the ornaments are lengthened and grow more
important although at the same time they are simplified,
and those on high are reversed back, joining the whole
mass to the continued curve which is pierced only by the
final Navasila.

The constructions which we admit to be Khmer can be
placed in all likelihood near about the 12th century, in
rare cases like the Pr. Ban Si, still earlier; it is hardly
likely that they are appreciably posterior in time. We have
some dates which may be used for the rest with the above
reservations; they seem to fit quite well with the evolution
suggested above, Culamini dates from the reign of King
Paramatrailokanatha, 7. e., from the middle of the 15th
century, the prang of Prignuldk of the year 1482 dates from
the end of the same century, If these two dates have to be
admitted, one would have to conclude that the evolution
which was slow at first was rapid towards the end as is
quite often the case. Therefore the prang of Lép‘buri
which seems to predate Culamini should doubtless have
preceded it by a very short margin; to assign it io the
beginning of the 15th century would be to attribute to it
the highest possible antiquity.

Thus the transformation of the initial Khmér
structures of light construction, which had required nearly
two hundred years to reach the type of Lip‘buri, was
completed afterwards in less than a century and resulted
almost in the pentented prang. But there is nothing im-
possible in it.

We have thus disengaged at the side of a mixed and
light Ti architecture of the best construction which is
highly interesting and. connected with Cambodia and
Burma, but still quite distinct, a robust and purely Siamese
art i _which like all these arts of the extreme orient had been
L'ART PSEUDO-KHMER AU SIAM ET LE PRANG 7

only the starting point of a new departure, less distant than
those of the other arts of these countries but still persisting
through several centuries: it had realised an entirely new
form, the prang, at a time when the most glorious art
traditions of the Far East dozed into decadence or death.

cD No airs nate NS Te ech aan

L’art pseudo-khmer au Siam et le prang.

‘par
WH. Parmentier

Architecte diplémé par le Gouvernment.
Chef honoraire du Service Archéologique de U Ecole
Francaise d’Eatréme-Orient

C’est une opinion courante, acceptée sans discussion,
qu'un certain nombre d'édifices siamois en magonnerie
sont d’inspiration khmére. On n’hésite pas alors a dire
comme mon confrere J. ¥. Claeys dans son excellent
article sur l’Archéologie du Siam (BE, XXXI1 369)’ que
les monuments de Lip‘buri, Ptigsnildk et Sukhdt‘Ai (p. 369)
datent du X° au XIITI° siécles et l’on voit méme un maitre,
comme M. G. Codes, arbitre incontesté de tout ce qui
se rapporte & histoire et & l’archéologie du Siam, déclarer,
Sla seule lecture des textes, que la grande tour du Wat
M4hath‘at de Lip‘buri appartient au régne de Siiryavar-
man I, roidu Cambodge au XI° sitcle et vainqueur du
Siam, Mais seuls les textes sont consultés alors, aucune
vérification architecturale de l’édifice n’accompagne la
datation, et nous savons par la cruelle méprise d’Aymonier
sur la date du Bayon, rectifiée par MM. Stern et le méme
G. Cadas, combien sont dangereuses ces interprétations
unilatérales. Il en résulie que le prang est considéré
sans discussion comme l’aboutissement normal du prasit

1. Nous citerons cot article ici par les letters Cl.; d’autres

“renvoie & Varticle de M. Coedés Documents sur Uhistoire politique

et religieuse du Laos occidental BE., XXV, p. 1, et. sqq. par la
Vabbreviation Doc.; enfin le Siam ancien de Fournereau par Ia
letters F, le numéro du tome ef le numéro de Ja planche.

L*ART PSEUDO-KHMER ‘AU SIAM ET LE PRANG 9

khmer. L’idée est vraie pour une part, mais pour une
part seulement: elle demande & étre serrée de plus prés, et
au premier examen de telles difficultés se présentent qu’on
serait d’abord tenté de l’écarter.

Les monuments au Siam qui peuvent éire rapprochés
de l’art khmér sont de deux sortes: les uns, en petit nombre
et qui se rencontrent surtout parmi Jes grands ensembles,
sont nettement khmérs. Ils sont caractérisés par leurs
matériaux et leur construction, grés ou briques, montés
par assises sans mortier, au moins apparent pour la brique
et par la forme de leurs décors ciselés dans le grés de la
masse ou dans des blocs rapportés au milieu de la magon-
nerie de briques. L’epoque la plus ancienne a laquelle
leur forme et leurs inscriptions permettent de les faire
remonter est le XI° ou le XII° siecle; & cette date le
Siam est devenue une province khmére que le maitre
embellit de ses temples. ‘L’aspect de ces edifices ne trompe
pas et nul. n’hésite sur leur origine. Ils se réduisent @
un petit nombre parmi ceux signalés par L. de Lajonquiere
et le Ct. Seidenfaden: ce sont P‘imai 447, Nom Van 437,
le Phnom Run 401, Mu’ang Tim 404, le Pr. Ban Si (BE.
X XIT 68) plus ancien, les premiers pene: en grés,
le dernier en briques.

Une série d’autres, en tours uniquesou par front de
trois, formant le centre de wat considerables le plus
souvent, sont d’allure moins franche et, si leur masse
éveille un souvenir khmér, leur construction en latérite
ou en briques & joints de mortier les différencie de l’art
du Cambodge et leurs décors, d’un caractére spécial,
obtenus seulement par application d’ enduits, les opposent
souvent aux conceptions khmeéres.

Avant de tenter de résoudre l’antinomie de. leur
silhouette d’une part et d’une forte série de leurs décors de
autre, nous allons d’abord passer en revue tous les édifices
qui évoquent une impression khmére. . Quel ordre adop-
terons nous? En ces matiéres le plus raisonnable parait |
étre l'ordre de datation, et les renseignements fournis par

rues ea ese eens oa sit. He pM ORTON

16 H. PARMENTIER

les chroniques et les inscriptions sont assez nombreux pour
que l’époque de la fondation de nombreux wit soit connue,
Mais ici, plus qu’au Cambodge, le renseignement historique
est fallacieux. En ce pays de conservatisme, le document
peut juste étre appliqué 4 la masse méme de l’édifice et son
aspect extérieur, qui pour une bonne part résulte du décor,
peut provenir de la centieme restauration, celle d’hier:
Vinconvénient de l’enduit pour l’archéologue c’est que
son appliaction si aisée en fait une simple mesure
dentretien guére plus importante qu’un ravalement.
Réduits & leur masse, les monuments khmérs se ressemblent
fort et quand pour de telles batisses on est obligé de mettre
& part la construction dans lequelle l’architecte cherchera
les marques de l’évolution ou la forme extérieure que l’his-
torien d’art examinera plutét, il ne reste pas grand chose;
rien ne vient alors appuyer l’indication de I’historien. Ici
heureusement, mieux qu’au Cambodge, la masse méme de
Védifice donne une indication précieuse et comme le prang
est marqué postérieur puis que son édification est encore
courante, on pourrait chercher une indication dans la
transformation du prdasdé en prang, mais les exemples sont
trop peu nombreux dans les grands édifices pour s’attacher
a ce fil conducteur et ce serait d’ailleurs un peu considerer
d’avance le probleme comme résolu.

Nous allons done adopter un ordre brutal, du Nord au
Sud, celui de notre voyage en 1981 et nous passerons la

revue des édifices douteux dans l’ordre méme oti nous les

avons vus: nous examinerons ensuite les deux ou trois
tours ot l’évolution.du prang est ‘nettement terminée
et qu’on n’est plus” tenté d’appeler autrement que
siamoises.

Le premier édifice d’esprit khmér que nous avons
rencontré, d’époque sans doute assez basse, n’a cepen-
dant absolument rien du prang. O’est une gracieuse cons-
truction rajoutée devant. la porte postérieure de la pre-
mitre des deux salles qui. s’allongent & Est devant
le grand stipa orienté du W. Suon Dék & C‘ieng Mai
| IGIS., 1937 Plate I
PL. I A—Vue de Védifice rajouté 7
au Vihan de Suon Dék :
ef TTo faee Paae 177 : a

L’ART PSEUDO-KHMER AU SIAM ET LE PRANG i

(fg. 1° pl. 1 A), Si les aréteg ne présentaient pas la courbe
concave classique de l’art t‘4i* et ses fins décors de pas-

Se

or.

tillages, et si sa oes n ’etait si longue, on  Sigaiadl ce
batiment pour un petit prasdt khmér, d’époque un peu
vague, dont il ne resterait que le soubassement, le corps et
le premier étage des superstructures, C’est une construction
de briques assemblées au mortier et dont tout le décor est
demandé& Venduit, Sur un haut soubassement détaillé,

2. Ces figures sont des croquis et. non. 2 dos relevés de les eomelles
ne sont qu’ approximatives... >

3. Junis sous ce terme les arts, voisins rd fhrahen, du Lav
francais et du Siam qui sans étre identiques ont beaucoup d’éléments
communs; cependant rien, absolunsant rien au tam “ne. rappelle * .
prang siamois,

12 H. PARMENTIER

un corps carré redenté s’éléve entre base et corniche ot
offre sur chaque face visible une fausse porte double en
plan. ia corniche, assez simple (fg. 2}, porte un terrasson
en doucine; sur celui-ci un bahut forme soubassement &
un étage de méme compusition couvert d’un nouvean
terrasson et les restes s’arrétent 14. Devant le redent du
corps principal, la fausse-porte participe dela base com-
mune efsur une corniche analogue ses pilastres de premier
plan regoivent un are ogival d’esprit absolument khmér;
Vare offre en bas une crosse de pur décor mais dans la
silhouette du makara & trompe levée ou du motif de naga
sortant d’une téte de lion qui Va remplacé. Le second
plan soutient plus haut un autre fronton analogue dont Ja
crosse finale ne présente qu’une iéte assez courte de
monsire sans qu’on puisse savoir si le motif n’a pas perdu
sa, terminaison. Par contre l’arc enferme un tympan de
patisserie au dessus de vantaux i rinceaux géométriques
que sépare un battement triangulaire, tous décors qui
n’ont rien de khmér. la fausse-baie 4 l’étage semble &
simple plan. Une sorte d’are comme l’antique hiudu orne la
terrasse au dessus, |

La pagode passe pour avoir été installée en 1371
dans une ville fondée en 1296 etle pavillon en question
n’est pas dela premiére heure, puisqu’il est nettement
rajouté & cette salle dont il modifie les dispositions
occidentales. Le mettre du début du XIV® siécle est
la plus haute aniiquité qu’on Puisse lui atiribuer et je la
crains fort exagérée. ;

Avec les tours du W. Siskvéi 470‘ de Sukhot‘%i, nous
sommes en présence de constructions d’esprit moins khmér
et plus voisines du prang. Ce sont des tours’ de latérite

4. Le monument a été plus ou moins dégagé depuis le passage
de L. de Lajonquiére qui indique les tours latérales comme murées
et ne mentionne pas de erypte.. Par contre il signale & terre devant
la porte de la tour centrale un linteau de grés tras effacé qui pourrad
avoir constitué une naissatice de Brahma. |

cant Voir | f, 1 es enema
ed

ostior

JGIS., 1937

CPN. dape Page Te

*

pl. IY A—Tours de Sisdvi
sakhéuu,

TT B—Tours du W. Mahath‘at

¥ *
PAyaih‘ia

Plate HI
L’ART PSEUDO-KHMER AU SIAM ET LE PRANG 13

et de briques dont le décor assez simple est ‘demandé
au revétement d’enduit, Ces tours ouvertes au Sud
forment un front E.-0.; ‘elles sont carrées avec un
systéme batard de fausses-portes et de redents aux angles,
Elles présentent deux salles superposées, petites et Tune
est traitée encrypte o& l’on descend. Tl semble que les
escaliers d’accés & la porte S. de Ia salle supérieure
partent alee de celui qui descend a la
crypte. A Vextérieur les tours ont un corps prin-
cipal assez bas, carré, redenté, % trois saillies au
coin entre celles des fausses-portes qui aménent 4 5
le nombre des arétes par angle. La base est commune a
la tour et aux fausses-portes etla hauteur de celles-ci est
tres faible: ainsi la partie nue du pilastre a juste sa
largeur dans sa hauteur (pl. IT A), leurs frontons font
un simple carré nu aux tours latérales et Fournereau
nous apprend que cette maigre hauteur correspond &
celle de lacellule supérieure. Au dessus de cette surface
carrée court un large bandeau qui se profile sur les cing
arétes de l’angle. Il forme toute la corniche, car sur
les redents une paroi nue de la hauteur d’un étage courant
pose sur une lourde doucine qui Vavance sur le redent et
Vaméne & la saillie de la paroi au dessus de la fausse-porte,

Sur ce bandeau six ou sept étages égaux et pew impor-
tants offrent sur chaque coin cing arétes que garnit une
antéfixe souvent trés riche: orant, tévodd ou garuda. Dans
la partie qui continue la fausse-porte et qui correspond a
son seul fronton, qui s’étend sur toute la largeur, forme
intermédiaire entre l’arcen U renversé et l’ogive; il est
légérement lobé et son rampant mouluré est terminé par
une téte de makara ou de crocodile d’oi sort un naga
triple franchement crété. De rares arcs de fausses-baie.
enferment une image de buddha assis. Fournereau (t. Lp.
811) dit que ces étages sont terminés par une. me ure:
circulaire soutenant une rangée de lotus avec un t ;
en couronnement. Ne pas partager Vadmiration & mo
ami Claeys (Cl. B, me pour ce monumel de

14 . H. PARMENTIER

portions, au decor pauvre et inégal,—il esi peu probable
que ces edifices soient anterieurs 4 la ville, et la ville ala
fondation du royaume de Sukhét‘Ai, c’est & dire du
milieu du XIII° siécle et c’est, je crois, risquer déja
de vieillir cet ensemble que de le placer méme 4 la fin du
XIITI° siécle.

Dans la méme ville, le W. Sdn P‘ri Sua Muong est prés
de l’art khmér, mais son enseignement est faible, car il est
resté en épannelage; il est orienté exactement. C’est un
édifice du genre d’un prdsdit khmér, en carré redenté,
avec fausses-portes & deux plans et vestibule a 1’Est.
L’intérieur est rendu inaccessible par l’amoncellement
des décombres. La porte orientale n’a pas conservé trace
de ses colonnettes. La tour s’éléve sur un soubassement &
grand profil & doucines et bague double. Il] est construit
en grands blocs de latérite qui portent les trous ronds
habituels aw grés et les fausses-portes ont gardé les
creux des poutres en doublure, ce qui semblerait indiquer
une ancienneté relative et pourrait peut-étre le faire classer
dans la série vraiment khmére; ses formes en ce cas le
-feraient croire antérieur & la derniére période de V’art du
Cambodge.

Tlen est de méme des trois iours du W. P ‘r& P ‘ai
Luéng de la méme ville dont la tour S. seule s’est
eonservée’. L/intérieur est en carré redenté avec quatre
niches importantes, Une corniche, & la base des ares,
a porté un plafond. La premitre base du piédestal
- parait encore en place, La porte a un ébrasement
normal; ses montants sont faits par assises de latérite
avec gros joints de mortier, mais dans le haut seulement,
et il est probable que c’est JA seulement une reprise
postérieure, Au dehors, Ja tour comporte un soubasse-
ment saillant, puis un corps & redents et des fausses-portes
ad. eolounettes par tambours; les linteaux ont disparu;
les feux-vantaux ont de battement ordinaire, mais

: 6. Gets, ie asuon, XIL, p. 28, 2: OL. pl. LXXV D,

ena

L°ART PSEUDO-KHMER AU SIAM ET LE PRANG 15

d’une forme lourde. Le fronton pose sur une bande
de décors; les pilastres ont un profil de corniche khmer
habituel. L’arc en ogive ondulée montre des saillanis en
losange. A Vouest il eucadre une scéne bouddhique d’en-
duit; les colonnettes en stuc grossier paraissent la traduc-
tion saillants en losanges. Le redent de la. tour se fond
avec l’arriére re-corps dela porte qui posséde un fronton
classique dw méme type.. La corniche qui porte ce fronton
fait ceinture ala tour et vient couper sa proportion. La
corniche réelle est du type khmér courant; elle se profile et
contreprofile sur le vrai redent échappé du fronton pré-
eédent. Elle porte un bahut garni d’antéfixes dont la
principale d’angle est un motif de ndga, Puis viennent
trois étages redentés avec bahut, fausse-baie. et antéfixes;
Vune plus importante occupe le centre de la fausse baie.
Il yalieu d’observer que la partie du corps séparée du
reste par la corniche en ceinture de la fausse-porte est
traitée dans un esprit spécial par le fait que cette corniche
soutient une petite base pour cette section dw corps et que
les trois étages de la tour montent en se réduisant en conti-
nuant la proportion de ce faux-étage. Un quatriéme vient
s’interposer sous le couronnement de lotus. Le fronton 0.
est occupé par une scéne bouddhique’ d’enduit; les
colonnettes en stuc grossier paraissent Ja traduction
de piéces A cing éléments. Le redent de latour se fond
couronnement de lotus, Tout cet art, bien que traité
en enduit et par suite sans grande ancienneté, se rapproche
bien plus del'art antérieur que du style du Bayon; on
y voit d’ailleurs encore des pots trés en doublure, qui sont
totalement disparues & cette dernitre époque.

7. L’hypothése de notre ami Claeys p. ‘417, sur la primitive
destination brahmanique de ce temple ne simpose pas; elle est
fondée seulement, je crois, sur la présence d’Indra et d’Airavata
dans un autre fronton. Or il n’y a nullé atninomie entre ce motif
et Part bouddhique et i est commu as leS-Pagodes du Siam et
du Cambodge modernne.. ks :

i6 | H. PARMENTIER

Avec les tours de briques du W. Mahath ‘tt d’Ayuth’
ia nous retombons dans le pseudo-khmeéer. Dans ce monu-
ment qui passe pour avoir été élevé par Las P‘r&é Rames-
seram, 2° ou 8° roi de la dynastie d’ Ayuth’i ia, soit au
XIV? siecle deux édifices accompagnent la masse centrale
ruinée, tours qui semblent intermédiaires entre le
prasdt et le prang: elles ont du prdsdt la terminaison
circulaire de lotus, bien nette sur celle de Vangle 8.-E.;
elles ont du prang le peu de hauteur du corps principal et
la multiplication des étages qui sont au nombre de7 au
moins, compris celui-ci; il en est de méme de l’importance
attribuée & Vantéfixe d’axe, tandis que la fausse-baie est
réduite & un aro ondule de la hauteur de chaque corniche;
il tient tout le redent central et vient se serrer derriére
Vantéfixe de face entre les deux d’angle correspondantes
(pl. II B, edifices de droite).

Le Raj Bunah d’Ayuth‘ia nous rapproche du prang,
mais aussi d’autres édifices d’un caractére particulier que
nous verrons plus au Sud et qui nous meitront plus prés de
Vorigine khmére. C’est la batiment central d’un wit

important allongé au Nord du W. Méahath‘at et ouvert

dans le méme sens, c’est & dire 4 1°Est. Latour centrale se
présente encore dans le systéme intermédiaire entre le
prasat etle prang, L’édifice, en moéllons de latérite &
joints de mortier et décors d’enduit porte sur trois soubasse-
ments inégaux formant une hauteur importante. I est
précédé d’un avant-corps qui perd un soubassement, Sur le
corps principal redenté s’éléve une corniche au dessus d’une
frise de guirlandes pendantes arrétée. Cette corniche
s'orne de statues debout placées comme des gardiens de
temple ef aux angles sont d’énormes garuda. On voit
ainsi 7 étages, compris le corps principal. Celui-ci offre
des fausses-portes & double corps; elles ont une fine base et
des frises opposées et encadrent un buddha debout, Au
dessus le fronton dela fausse-porte dépasse la corniche et:
arrive eur celle de Pétage suivant. La fausse-baie princi-
pale, an dessus: des gure debout ason encadrement en

oS ea
JGIS., 1937 Plate il

Pl. f B.—Prang du Raj Bunah VAvtthia

[Lo fuce Page 17]

i ART PSEUDO-KHMER AU SIAM ET LE PRANG 17

ux belles crosses. Le couronnement
Lavant-corps:
es & deus
Sur cetie
ns et des

accolade retroussé par de
de lotus laisse encore un souvenir franc.
entre base et corniche a frises a des fausses-port
plans et du méme esprit que celles de la tour.

mince nef, la corniche principale a porté des lio
garuda dangle, Son étage simple ou double soutient une
eroisée de votites-tolts sur laquelle séléve un stipa eu
cloche. Détail bien t’ai, les diverses arétes vyerticales sont

concaves (pl. IB). P rr
L’édifice suivant forme le centre du W. P‘dtth‘aisivau

pagode importante d'Ayuth’ia encore dont Fournereau
a donné le plan dans le tome II de son Siam ancien pl.
XLIV sous le nom réduit de Vat Phu Tai. Il y fournit
du sanctuaire principal, tour et avant-corps, un plan
précis.® Le batiment est plutot un prang; il présente
une salle intérieure, étroite chambre qui contient un remar-
quable stipa & corps redenté et soubassement imporiant,
bahut et cloche avec haute pointe. Deux fenétres dans
les murs N. et 8. éclairent cet intérieur. On y arrive par
un long couloir sous plafond qui vient de la salle dela
nef antérieure. Celle-ci contient diverses piéces siamoises
sous un plafond rouge et or. le prang a des fausses-
portes; celle de l'Ouest seule est munie d'un perron ;
elle est plus basse de soubassement et est sensiblement plus
saillante que les autres; elle a cing frontons successifs.
La baie de l'Est est précédée par l’avant-corps, important,
trés allongé; iln’a que deux soubassements et plus petits
que ceux de la tour. Tl est accompagné par deux
fausses-portes: plus exactement, le premier corps vers
Vextérieur est une fausse entrée; celui d’arriére
est un bras de croix peu saillant sous pignon de la
votite courbe. Celle-ci est congue en surface ondulée

8. Il indique des cellules avec un bouddha derriére les portes
que j’ai notées comme fausses; je n’ai rien vu de semblable et la
disposition parait encore plus anormale 4 l’avant-corps; cette correc-
tion est garantie par le fait que la méme erreur se repéte pour
Yexemple suivant dont j’ai pris un plan detaillé.

18 | H. PARMENTIER

avec fausses-tuiles rondes. Les pignons ont des rampants
en ogive ondulée, Le prang comporte 7 étages ornés
dantéfixes au dessus de son corps et le septiéme a ses
Bist antéfixes couchées; c’est le simple bahut de séparation,
ramené dans le plan dela courbure générale qui remplace
le couronnement delotus.. Le monument, d'aprés Claeys
p. 897. aurait été construit en 18538; mais le vestibule et
l'avant-corps auraient été refaits.

‘A Lép ‘buri, la tour centrale du W. P‘r& Sri Ratna
Mahath‘at,® pagode principale et importante de la ville,
est accompagnée de deux tours de briques nettement

Fig. 3

Pe postérieures. L'édifice (fg. 8), de latérite et d’enduit,
Di eae est bien moins avaneé dans l’évolution vers le prang.”
ieee O’est une tour exactement orientée en carré redenté 4
fausses-portes précédée d'une salle antérieure qu’accom-
pagne un vestibule. Au dedans, la tour contient une cella
a trois grandes niches. En avant la salle est munie de

9. Fournereau a donné le plan de cet ensemble dans la pl. XLITI
du. t. 12 sous le nom de Vat Na Phra That avec deux tours
seulement, car la’ iroisiame (cl. p- 399) n’a été trouvée qu’aprés sa
visite. . Il répéte la méme erreur des, cellules & buddha derriére les
fausses-portes, an

oe pet Cl. pl. LV vue du © ir du ‘Sud-Est eb LVU.

\
L’ART PSEUDO-KHMER AU SIAM ET LE PRANG 19

portes au Nord et au Sud et ces portes sont plus éloignées
dela tour que de Ventrée. Celle-ci est constituée par un.
vestibule ouvert par une porte et éclairé laiéralement par
des baies trés étroites, de véritables meurtriéres. Au
dehors la partie principale se présente comme une tour
carrée & trois fausses-portes avec 7 redents par angle E.,
9 parangle O., les fausses-portes comptant pour quatre.
La paroi est garnie d’une grande frise & guirlandes
pendantes arrétée et contrefrise de méme entre base &
deucine et corniche semblable avec bahut. La fausse-porte
est & deux plans et sa base est bien plus petite que celle
de la tour. Sa corniche de pilastre regne sur les deux
corps, bien que le fronton postérieur ait wn autre départ
beaucoup plus élevé. Les frontons sont 4 minces ram-
pants ondulés et se terminent de chaque cété par une
grosse téte de makara d’ot s’épanouit un motif de naga
dont les tétes sont entourés par un are multilobé. Le
second fronton de la porte S. domine avec un groupe de
Buddha attestant la terre entre deux fidéles, sur sa face
EB. le muret montre une niche avec un buddha dans le
méme acte, ee :

Lia petite nef antérieure est & deux étages avec au
corps inférieur petite frise & guirlandes pendantes et trés-
grande contrefrise. Sur la corniche sont des abouts de
fausses-tuiles ornées de tates; le muret présente une série
de niches et une nouvelle corniche, Les deux plans de
la porte latérale sont traités comme 4 la tour avec le méme
défaut d’arrangement en arriére. La porte N.ason linteau
remplacé par une piace de bois et un motif de stuc. Les deux
plans de la porte latérale sont traités comme & la tour avec
le méme défaut d’arrangement en arriére. La porte N, a son
linteau remplacé par une piéce de bois et un motif de stuc.
La voite de la nef se détache dun. fronton encadré d’un
rampant dont les ndga sortent d” une téte de makara issant
de la tour. La porte d’entrée de Yensemble, porte du
porche oriental, a un linteau. de pierre du type II avee
motif triple: lions et Poreomngger dansont + ou. DES TAR

20 H,. PARMENTIER

L'arrangement des bases n’est plus compris: la base de la
fausse-porte S, est plus haute que celle de la nef jusqu'a
la tour tandis qu’elle est commune avec celle du porche.
A la place oi devrait se trouver une grande doucine est
une sorte de cavet garni d’oiseaux passant.

Les étages de la tour, au nombre de quatre, compren-
nent le méme nombre d’arétes, des fausses-baies au Jieu
des fausses-portes et toutes antéfixes. Le cinquiéme étage
garde la forme circulaire & lotus et des parties de couronne-
ment sont tombées 4 terre dans l’angle Sud-Est.

Tout ensemble est soutenu par un groupe de soubasse-
ment d’une hanteur considérable. Le premier, en haut
et le suivant sont coupés par des perrons au droit de
chaque baie vraie ou fausse. Un troisitéme plus important
n’a d’escalier que sous les portes principales. Ces divers
gradings sont du vieux profil & doucines autour d'une bague
profil, 4 doucines autour d’une bague double.

Aux tours latérales de briques, le dedans ne présente
rien de spécial; la voiite en cheminée offre l’évent cir-
culaire cambodgien. Une corniche intérieure en doucine
est exécutée en laiérite. Le plafond siamois est placé
beaucoup plus haut. Au dehors elles ont un corps droit
& fausses-portes avec & l’Est avant-corps important. Le
corps central porte quatre étages et au dessus wne ruine
informe. La votite de Vavant-corps est constituée en ogive
par assises horizontales. Le soubassement est traité comme
le précédent. F

Les monuments du méme point qui nous restent &
examiner ne nous retiendront guére. L’un, le W. Sén
Pra Kan, le San Sung 467de Lajonquitre est une suite
de terrasses avec des sculptures khméres, en semble anor-
mal qui ne nous apprend rien; Tauire, le W. Nak ‘on

: Kosa 468, plus au Nord,. estune gracieuse tour en briques

au corps simple, avec fausses-portes & double plan et
double étage, décors denduit et antéfixes qui paraissent
de pierre, La petite tour a été construite par Chat Pya

-Kégé sous lo régne de P‘ri Narai. par suite au XVIT°
JGIS,, 1937

Plate [V

Pl. IV A.—Edifice de Culamini a

Psnilok: Coté du porche

[Lo face Page 21}
L°ART PSEUDO-KHMER AU SIAM ET LE PRANG 21

siecle, dans l’esprit d'une tour khmére. Je ne sais ce que
yaut la tradition et s’il ne s’agit pas plutét d’un rhabil-
lage d’un édifice plus ancien. De toute facon, le petit
batiment ne semble pas apporter de données nouvelles. Le
troisitme, le W. Deva Sathan Prang 465, le W. P‘ré
Prang Khék de Claeys p. 400 est un groupe de trois tours
orientées BH. 10° S., précédé par une salle siamoise & deux
pignons. Ces tours sont en briques. La tour centrale
offre & Vintérieur un curieux décor d’arcatures qui laisse
chaque fois un vide au milieu. Le plafond est placé
beaucoup plus haut que ce décor. L’autel est encore en
place, mais la cuve & ablutions est renversée. La porte
dont le piédroit était assemblé d’onglet a été réparée et
couverte par des linteaux de bois. La tour N. a conservé
son cadre ancien assemblé d’onglet, mais les montants
sont construits par assises. L’intérieure posséde une
corniche. La tour est précédée d’un avant-corps, Les
fausses-portes ont un panneau carré au dessus de l’ogive
du fronton; elles ont des battements 4 saillants. Au
dessus du corps de la tour sont cing étages normaux;
un sixiéme en lotus est particuliérement reconnaissable a
la tour N. et sur un débris tombé & terre. Il n’y a plus
trace du soubassement général qui cependant devait unir
les trois tours. La construction est faite par assemblage
de briques sans mortier. . Lajonquiére n’hésite pas & voir
la un batiment khmér complété par des additions siamoises
et cette opinion me parait trés vraisemblable. Mais la
datation de ce groure est des plus difficile par manque de
décors caractéristiques et leur remplacement possible par
des enduits siamois 4 cette heure indatables.

Le probleme est plus simple pour le quatrigme monu-
ment, le W. Prang Sim Yot 446 (Cl. pl, LVIII). Ce sont
trois tours unies ensemble, d’origine nettement khmére,
orientées & 1’Est avec un léger. écart vers le Sud, La
tour centrale a quatre baies, les baies d’ ‘axe E,-0, précédées
d’un vestibule, celles d’axe N.. “8. unies. par un- ‘bout de
galerie minuscule, oe ae intérieure de. de tour centrale.

22 H. PARMENTIER

assez spacieuse construite en latérite forme croisée avec
larges arétes creuses, Les portes sont assemblées
d'équerre. Un plafond rouge et ora été installé par les
Siamois sur la vieille corniche intérieure. Les portes
opposées de la galerie ont colonnettes et cadres, mais
les linteaux sont bruts. Ia porte N. extréme est abritée
sous un vestibule traitédeméme. Les colonnettes mono-
lithes octogonales engagées ont 5 motifs gracieusement
exécutés, Une poutre & crapaudines passe derriére le
linteau et ne soutient rien. le linteau vrailui-méme est
déchargé suivant la derniére méthode khmére. La porte
S, de la tour centrale a des ascétes sur les dés de ses colon.
nettes. La votite de la tour S., visible & travers le plafond
dislogué, est normale.

A Vextérieur, les tours se présentent en carrés simples
précédés sur chaque face par un avant-corps d’ot part
le vestibule ou la galerie de jonction. Les trois saillies
dela tour centrale sont en outre accompagnées de deux
basses-nefs fausses. Le: corps montre une frise et une
conirefrise d’enduit; il est coupé par des corniches inter-
médiaires partant des fausses-portes. Au dessus s’élévent
quatre étages redentés garnis de fausses-baies et d’antéfixes
et deux étages au moins de couronnement circulaire.
Frontons et antéfixes sont du type habituel. Le fronton
central de la face O. & la tour du milieu montre les
mortaises d’une nef légére & laquelle correspond une
terrasse de latérite. La créte de la galerie est garnie de
niches ogivales; un buddha y est reconnaissable au vesti-
bule méridional dela tour Sud. La galerie N. montre
sur sa face O. une fenétre encadrée de pilastres et d'un
fronton. Les vestibules ont eu des fenétres. L’ensemble
des tours est remonté sur un soubassement commun &
doucine et bande. Ces édifices n’ont rien du prang et leur
caractére khmér n'est. ‘pas ee au moins comme
premiére fondation. - ain
= - Gulamani de. Prignulék, en beinuon est par malheur

ae peeda a Tne corps: le clement principal au fond du
Plate V

JGIS,, 1937

5 ape gt Se ee ee
q Ths = nee 8 dR eet oer Bek = ee Ve
thas m es oR Bee ee ee se

le fausseporte

Ae ¢

Pl. IV B.—Edifice de Culamani & Pis
Part

£
k
2
£

L'ART PSEUDO-KHMER AU SIAM ET LE PRANG zB

terrain, est une tour carrée redentée précédée a I’ List par
une petite nef munie de deux portes sur laxe N.-S. et
d’une porte a Est. L’ensemble est construit en latérite de
petit échantillon, Claeys en donne plan et facades
dans ses figures 50, 51, pl. LXV, détail fg. 52, photos
densemble pl. LXVI et de détails pl. LXVII et les
renseignements qu il fournit dans son texte p. 405
et sqq. sont en rapport exact avec mes propres observa-
tions. En plan, la ‘cella de la tour est inaccessible.
La nef offre une petite salle en long rectangle avec
centre en croix; elle fut votitée par une croisée d’arétes
en arc ogival aigu fait par encorbellements. Un couloir
sur lequel continue cette votite améne & la salle de la
tour encombrée par la ruine. En avant de la nef, un porche
ou s’ouvre la porte d’entrée monitre deux niches profondes,
Ce fut sans doute comme au W. Mahdth‘at de Lép‘buri
d’ étroites fenétres autrefois, car la mince cloison qui les
obstrue semble rapportée: par céié (pl. IV A) une double
fissure verticale dans Venduit montre le décollement de ce
rebouchage. ;
A Vextérieur, Vensemble porte sur un quadruple
sowbassement: ce sont d'abord deux gradins & doucines
avec grande bande double ornée de fins motifs d’enduit
de caractére franchement khmér; un troisiéme soubasse-
ment plus petit présente . deux” profils a& doucine et
celui den haut est orné— d’niseaux ° “passant qui sont
de caractére plutét Si quoiqu’on puisse. les rattacher
également aux traditions de Vart primitif. khmer. Au
dessus, & l’avant-corps est une base & doucine, puis le corps
orné d’une contrefrise et d'une frise & guirlandes pen-
dantes arrétée, Au dessus est ane corniche quit soutient un
petit toft en courbe ondulée. et un étage dont le muret
porte une seconde voiite. analogue. ou se dessinent les cétes
de fausses-tuiles courbe. _Lraxe des - -portes N. et S.
nest pas au milieu de_ Vavancée de la nef. mais - plus 3
loin de la fagade E.. Ap la tour. La porte . Ss. de la
nef a deux ag is a seh rae de frises: & | guirlen-

24 . H. PARMENTIER

des pendantes en dents de scie trés allongées. Un fronton
en ogive & plusieurs lobes érés accentués s’éleve sur le pre-
mier corps; le tympan, s’il y eneut un, ce qui est des plus
probables, adisparu avec les poutres qui le soutenaient.
Un naga triple sorti d’une téte de makara mal comprise
termine le rampant maigre de cet arc gracieux. Sur le
second corps de la porte s’en éléve un autre dont la corniche
a pour cimaise une bande de losanges curvilignes et de
rosaces dans l’esprit de Vart primitif khmér. Sur cet arri-
ére-corps se retrouve la votite en fausses tuiles qui vient
recouper lautre. L’are du fronton présente un heureux
motif de garuda debout embrassant quatre ndga tandis
qu’un petit Visnu s’éléve
au dessus. De la rencontre
des deux votites-toits, mon
ami Claeys a encore vu
en 1929 un fragment 8.-H.
de couronnement de prasdt
(p. 409).

Pour la tour elle-méme,
le plan primitif en carré
redenté 4 5 arétes 4 l’angle
avec fausse-porte & deux
corps est encore reconnais-
sable, Le profil de base,
exécuté en enduit, est assez
voisin du type khmér classi-
que. La fausse-porte a de
beaux vantaux d’enduit
sans battement; leur décor
est du type & chevrons
partant d’une niche ogi-

pt vale et celle-ci enferme une

; Fig. 4 grande figurine. Le haut de
la: fausse-porte nous a été heureusement conservé (pl. IV.
B.) par un grand bloc tombé 4 terre au pied de la face 8.
de Ja tour, C’est le fronton -postérieur en ogive lobée qui

L*ART PSEUDO-KHMER AU SIAM ET LE PRANG 25

s’appuie & la corniche. Je ne sais sile groupe de naga
voisin appartient & cet arc ou 4 celui qui au dessous corres-
pondait au premier corps de la fausse-porte. Le profil de
la corniche (fg. 4) n’est pasle profil khmér, mais il n’en
est pas trés éloigné. La cimaise est ornée de losanges
comme dans l'art classique du Cambodge, mais les lotus de
la doucine trés allongés et couchés ont un caractére spécial.
: Le temple aurait été construit par le roi Paramatrailo-
kanatha, c’est & dire, vers le milieu du XV* siécle.

(la suite au prochaine numero)

ee

wot. SI

. Ninh)}—Publications
2 Excepting two:

The Megalithic Tomb of Xuan-Loc
(Cochin-China)

By Dr. E. Gaspardone

The study of megaliths is in French Indo-China a new
branch of research. Thanks to Mlle. Colani,' those of Upper
Laos consisting of monolithic jars and menhirs, are now
well-known. Her work does not only contain a detailed des-
cription along with the circumstances of their recent explo-
ration, but it also sums up what has been done elsewhere in
the same field and the comparison with which might throw
new light on the subject. However, the dolmens and like
monuments are hardly mentioned in it, because it does not
appear that the region investigated has hitherto revealed

any of them.? We wish to indicate by an example, as en

_marge of Mlle. Colani’s book, some data furnished by this

kind of monuments in their relation to the general problem
of megaliths in the South Sea islands and along the western.
coast of the Pacific.

Xuan-léc is a little railway station on the line running
from Saigon to Annam, about 80 kilometers from Saigon and
50 kilometers from the frontiers of Annam, in the middle of the
large forest which serves as a common boundary between
this country and Cochin-China. More than 8 kilometers to
the south-east of the station in a plantation of hévéas worked
by M. Bazé, locally known as Hang Béng (‘ranges of cotton
trees’), ona gentle slope near by from the road and in red
earth, blocks of stone issuing out of the earth led in April

1927 to the discovery of the, megalithic tomb of which we

1 Madeleine Colani: -Mégolithes. da ‘Hanh Boa (Hua Pan, Tran
de PEcole Frangaise- d'Extréme-Orient, AXV-XXVI,

three doubiful cases (ep: eit., 1, p. 176 f)

sae RTE GSE NORE ar Hige
JGIS., 1937 Plate VI

j
\
i
i
¢
f

— Sere oo

Pl. A. The tomb of Nudn-lée,
View from the North-east.
*

Dimer Be ret ne

3 Pl. B. The tomb of Xuan-léc,
~ View from the South-east,

[To face Page 27)

THE MEGALITHIC TOMB OF XUAN-LOC 27

are repreducing two photographs taken by us on the I4th
February, 1935 (Plate IV). It contained only some earth
and perhaps a few sherds of ceramic destroyed as soon
as they were exhumed. |

Unfortunately, the excavation was executed unrigorously
by Jean Bouchot, Correspondent of the Ecole Frangaise d'Ex-
tréme-Orient, who drew attention to it by a communication
rather confused.? In September of the same year 1927, M.
Parmentier Head of the Archaeological Survey of the Ecole
Francaise d’Extréme-Orient, visited the site and sent notes
about it which appeared in 1929.4 The sketch drawn by M.
Parmentier® shows that the state of excavation, only a few ~
months after the opening of the work, and after having stood
the first season of rain, did not differ much from the state in
which I found it in 1935. Only the circumference of it has ~
been deformed by the sinking of the ground.

The tomb brought to light is situated ata depth of less
than 3 meters oriented from east to west, with a slight devia-_
tion towards the south. It forms a parallelopipedic chamber
composed of six blocks of granite, one block on each side.
The flooring block and the upper slab are wider than, the -
other sides and they are hollowed along their edges.by a |
groove of 10 to 12 cms, corresponding to the thickness of the
lateral blocks which are fitted into it. The thickness of these —
two slabs is about 20 cms., but that of the cover swells to
27 ems. about the middle. This latter on its western side”
projects as a fenon, which, according to M: Parmentier, c
responded to a projection from the e astern end, which how-
ever has now been broken. It is about 420 meters.ir length

3. J Bouchot, Quelques notes en marge de la découverte de Xuénlée, |
in Balletin de la Société des Etades Indochinoises, New. Series,
t. IV., No. 2, 1929, p. 114 & There are also five’ ph mwaphs of the

4 H. Parmentier, Vestiges mégalithiques
sketch is a hypothetical plan. ec

28 E. GASPARDONE

and 2°16 in the width. The supporting block is a little
less wide. The lateral blocks have a height of about
1°40 meter.

Around the chamber there are lying about to-day without
any order a dozen blocks partly broken, some of which were
still standing as pillars im the year of excavation, J. Bouchot
gave their number as twelve, but M. Parmentier aa fourteen,
Among them the thickest are two pieces of granite in the
form of a block slightly cambered and very much elongated
(7m. 50 and 7m. 20x Im. 10% 40 and 35 cms.), extended at
their upper extremity which terminates as a. gorge. According
to reports of J. Bouchot and M. Parmentier only these two
Pieces rested oni stone soles of the thickness of 20 cm. and
showing traces of a groove. The other blocks are of sand-
stone rounded or squared of the total height of 5 to 2:25 meters
and their section is smaller than that of the pillars of granite
(0:50 to 025 cms.}; some of them, like the granites, end in a
gorge at the top. '

According to the authors quoted above all the pillars
were planted in the soil at different depths. All two granites,
raised on the north-south axis of the chamber, on each side
of the long slabs, had their base a little above that of the
chamber according to J. Bouchot,or to half the height of its
dateral faces according to M. Parmentier. The sandstones
had their base about 60 cms. above the base of the chamber
(Bouchot) or above the covering slab (Parmentier). M.

‘Parmentier, although he arrived three months after the excava-

tion, gave a description of it which is much more precise than

_ Mat of J. Bouchot, and he thinks that “‘the foot of the diverse

_ supports went up to the periphery from the centre” and that

all these pillars were arranged in three equidistant rows

_- oriented from east to west and slightly opening at the centre

_ occupied by the tomb; each of these rows consisted of four

Pillars of sandstone, the central row thrust out of the line

Pig ‘to: make room for the two granite pillars. Thus the tomb
he a should have been inscribed within the interiors of a hexagon,
cio, tdlegends . entier, or, of a rectangle, according to

ng to.M. Pan néntier,
wehot

Lt)
THE MEGALITHIC TOMB OF XUANLOC

If now from the reconstitution of the monument, we pass
on to its interpretation, the divergence of opinion between
our two authors becomes more serious.

J. Bouchot believed it to be an open neolithic dolmen. In
order to explain the irregularities in the planting of the pillars,
he was driven to the hypothesis of construction. at two differ-
ent periods: the blocks of sandstone would have been erected
as acromlech at a time when the tomb, engulfed in the earth,
was about to be forgotten. And to explain the gorges at
the top of the pillars he imagined a very ancient -precursor
in stone of the roofing and the palissade of wood, likewise
rectangular in shape, of the modern tomb of a chief Jarai of
Darlac mentioned by Henri Maitre :* the gorges would have
carried the horizontal beams of the roof and of the palissade.

M. Parmentier has proposed, though not without reserves,
a different hypothesis: the gorges carried the horizontal
beams destined to sustain periodically in the air the upper
slab,” raised at first by its terminal projections by the means

of a tree pulled at each end by a crowd of people, and “‘ac-
cording to the charges and the requirements of stability, the
several pillars would have been driven into the earth at
different depths."”* eae ANG! eae ey aaa
J. Bouchot presented the monument as “‘the tomb of a
chief'’* in open air. M. Parmentier imagines a tomb utilising
“the. properties of ‘red earth, which, on account of its phos- .
pherous contents, very: rapidly consumes the corpses.’ » The
cell would have been ‘‘a common tomb where the corpses
were volatilised,—a true ante-chamber of immortality, and
the ceiling a mobile cover to. permit successive buryings |
of chiefs and warriors.""° oe eee Fe Sete

We believe that there is no reasom to retain the explana-

tions given by J. Bouchot which are both complicated ‘and :

6 Les jangles moi, Paris, |

7 J. Bouchot, op. cit., pp. 11
but only to reject it. cae ee Gee ey
8. Parmentier, op. cit., p.
10 Parmentier, toc, cit.

un os ; i se cit, oS ; :

30 E. GASPARDONE

naive: the two epochs appear to be unnecessary and the
Jarai-prototype impossible. The tomb was certainly sub-
terranean as suggested by M. Parmentier; but even the hypo-
thesis of M. Parmentier does not seem to be justifiable to us.
Not only, as the auther himself admits, does it give no indica-

tion as to the réle of a part of the pillars, but one finds it

dificult also to understand the resistance of the supposed
beams, or even of. the pillars, simply set in earth in the

manceuvre of raising and ““maintaining at a sufficient height

in the air during the long ceremony,’"*" a mass so heavy as

the covering slab. The first result of disengaging the tomb
“from the protecting earth which covered it’ would have
been to compromise the stability of the pillars, and the repeti-
tion in these circumstances of a ceremony, which still remains
purely conjectural, renders it quite improbable to us.

If it is absolutely necessary to give an immediate expla-
nation, would it not be possible to remain content with a

: simpler hypothesis? The stone chamber had been construct-

ed at the bottom of a pit and flanked by the two pillars of
granite; the earth around had been opened in the shape of .a
funnel, and on the slope of this opening had been planted the
pillars of sandstone; the gorges perhaps sustained horizontal

“supports, the destination of which remains uncertain. The

dimensions and the disposition of the pillars,—admitting
their reconstitution as given by M. 'Parmentier—dimini-
shing in length, height and depth from the centre of the tomb
to the periphery, produce a transversal cup contained in a
lozenge of which the longer diagonal coincides with the sur-

“face line of the surrounding ground and the similarity of

which is quite striking with the transversal cup of the funnel
and of the tumulus ‘of earth which had to cover the position.
More simply still; one might content oneself with noting the

| fact that the inequal importance in the height and in the depth

of planting of the ples dtesinished from: the tomb to its

vey rei

THE MEGALITHIC TOMB OF XUAN-LOC 31

Before we conclude any further it would be proper to
ascertain what this region may still contain of vestiges of the
same kind: public rumour says that there are some spots of
this type still to be explored.* As any precise statement is
faced with the danger of being falsified by future discoveries
or finds, we shall only make here a few brief remarks on the
questions of analogy and of age which naturally come up in
ihe present circumstances. |

Neither the absence of human remains in the chamber
nor that of stones of the same nature in the country is extra-
ordinary. The variety of the possible modes of buying, and
the very large number of empty tombs discovered in all the
countries round the world, render the consideration of the
dissolving property of the red earth of quite secondary im-
portance. The funeral fields of Upper Laos have yielded
Mlle. Colani but a small quantity of human bones, and even
these are often undecipherable; the same is the case with
Perak and Sumatra.’** The. jars of Assam: are still poorer.*®
The distance of these massive rocks'® ig not an insuperable
difficulty to their transport; even in France we have examples
of it in the dolmens,* and in Assam in the menhirs."® The
megaliths presuppose an organsed society and a mass tech.

12 Parmentier, p. 485.. es etn Sg = <P

13 Colani, Mégalithes du Haut-Laos, 1, Pre 82E., II, P- 27f.,
particularly, pp, 31-33.

14 Op. cit, Hl, p. 250, and the Mi Vee ah van der Hoop,
Megalithic. erates. in South Somat: a in ese 220A 1932,
p. 574,

15 See Mills and Hatton. hes

16 Those of Xuan-lée would: have ee caitied from the region of
Phari-ri or Dalat according to the conjecture of J. Bouchot (Bulletin de
% Société des Etudes indochinoises, New: series, t,. II, 2, 1927, p.. 1565,

_ IV, 2, 1929, p. 119 and 122), But Mr. Evans also notes. that the
ae of the Perak tombs cannot. be fonnd. in. ite celctlogethaed rao
(See below) ; 1 sre ghee

17 For example, ]. A. Brutails, Pour ipa €.
la France, Paris, 1922, pp. 6-7. .

18 P.R.T. Gurdon, The Khasi | London 19075:
op, cit., 1, p. acs eee

Spee ra

32 E, GASPARDONE

nics :'° this is particularly the case in Sumatra and Cambodia.
In Laos the constructors found their materials at hand.

On the other hand it is well-known that the anthropology
of Indo-China is very much confused already from pre-historic
times,”° and that the mountain tribes designated in Annam by
the generic term Moi, or barbarians, have a culture which
presents such. striking analogies with the culture of certain
peoples of the Pacific and of India that it has been ppssible
to propose and defend their ancient relationship.”

The sepulchre of Xuan-léc can, therefore, be compared

with the tombs of granite blocks discovered in 1895 and 1927
at Changkat Manteri and at Sungkai (also in a concession) in
southern Perak.?? Unlike Xuan-léc these tombs have yielded
comelian pearls, rough ceramic sherds bearing traces of a
black vegetable coating, and instruments of bronze or iron
comparable to those of Upper Laos;?* whilst the glass pearls
found among the articles discovered in the jars, the like of
which has not been found at Changkat Manteri, and found

in another district of Perak, Kuala Selinsing’* and in Annam

itself, at Sa-huynh among the coastal dunes of Quing-ngai. ra
At Java, as Dr. van stein Callenfels assures us, ‘‘the tombs
of the dolmen type are not at all rare......and embrace the
period extending from the ancient neolithic to the Iron age.”’**
Mlle. Colani, -on the other hand, speaks of the ‘‘closest pos-

19 4 Déchelette, Manuel darchéologie bréhistorique, celtique et
gallo-romaine, 1908-14, t, I, p. 388.”

20 CH, for example, E, Patte'in Bulletin da Service géologique de

__ PIndochine, XII, 5, 1925, pp. 24-25.

21 Works of W. Schmidt, J. Przyluski, P. Rivet and others.

22 «J. HN. Evans: On Slab-built Graves in Perak and A farther Slab-
bailt Grave in Sangkai, Perak, in Journal of the Federated Malay States
Museum, Calcutta, Vel. XiL, 5y 1928, p. 11 and Vol. XV, 2, 1931,
BOSE

23° Colani, op, - cit, 1 ‘pe 2 £

24 J. HN, Evans, Excavations: at Tanjong Siaosis Koala Selinsing,
Perak,’ in ‘Journal, °p. head Voki is.e a 1982, Pe 79 4 eae Colani, Il,

Bs Cla Heep Le oe ey
Ei, On Slab.bul Gane: in Peak Pe 118,

THE MEGALITHIC TOMB OF XUAN-LOC 33

sible relations inspite of ‘differences’’ between the jars of
Upper Laos and the ancient jars discovered in 1928 in Nor-
thern Cachar (Assam) and goes to the point of considering
very probable ‘‘that the jars of Tran Ninh are derived from”
the latter.*’ :

It may be pointed ete in eincondiancs with elec unique
example of MuAn-léc, that the megaliths of Perak and Sumatra
exhibit a predilection for orientation from east to west,**
whereas Upper Laos has not revealed any particular predilec-
tion in this respect.2" On the whole, it seems that certain
affinities can be noted between parts of Indo-China and parte
of Malay where such comparisons have been made. It would
be easy to extend these comparisons also towards India, and
perhaps in the opposite direction of North-east Asia, but that
at the risk of obscuring the nearer cultural relations by the
affluence of more distant, and more and more uncertain
relations.*®

This leads us to say a ihe words finally about the relative
chronology of the tomb of Xuan-léc. Nothing: i is More un

LN Sed Ia ode Mills and }. H. Fisvon, JPASB, New Series, Vol. XXV,
1929, p. 285 f, and Colani, II, pp. 223 and 297.

28 Evans, Excavations, loc. cit.; van: der Heop apud Colani, BEFEO.,
po 585. sata

29 Colani, Il, p. 201.

30 The clearly neolithic dolmens from the south: ‘of Korea’ have been
compared with those of Assam, and those of Northein Korea with the
dalmens of India (Torii Rytizo, Les dolmens de la Corée, in Mémoirs of
the Research Department of the Téys Bunko, Tokyo, No. 1,, 1926, p. 99),
But the graves of Xuanléc like those of Perak are mich more akin tothe 3
tumuli which perhaps succeeded the dolmens in Korea and which are my
so numerous in the Japanese Archipelago, whereas the dolmens are almost
absent (Torii, op, cif., pp. 96 and 100). The stone chambers of Xuén- x
léc and of Perak resemble, due allowance being: made, the vessels of sione
(iasfane, Haul ee? of certata, few antique tombs of | Japan. | (Cf 5. soak
it Twaseo, near. Takamatea. yey
province’. of Sanubi,: Kyoto. 1933,- sehl oO: rést
fig: IV published by S. Tsuboi in Hansel 088
Cf. the comparisons betwee the jars and monk
of aes and the Aateod of stones | of Hokke

44. £. GASPARDONE

certain and more subject to revision than a guess of this
nature. It is admitted that, in most countries the megaliths
may go back from the neolithic to the Iron age, and that the
different pre-historic ages do not necessarily imply any syn.
chronism between one country and another. Mlle. Colani
has suggested with certain reservations an Iron age for the
menhirs and the jars of Laos and for the jars (not megalithic}
of the dunes of Annam, and an epoch anterior to the intro-
duction of Sivaite cult of the liiga_into eastem Indo-China.”
Mr. van der Hoop, inspite of his prudence, maintains a very
high antiquity for the megaliths of southern Sumatra,—
an antiquity older than the Indian immigration, and believes
them to belong to a culture connex to that of pre-historic
Tonkin and Laos.** Finally, Mr. Heine-Geldern, basing his
arguments on the very insufficient data furnished by M.
Goloubew** in an extremely disputable paper, refers almost

‘all the megaliths of India and South-east Asia to the Iron age.”

Both Mr. Heine-Geldern and Mr. van der Hoop, after.
having adopted a terminus aquo between the second and first
millenium, B.C.; have been nevertheless obliged to drop their
terminus ad quem to about the beginning of the Christian era.
Mr, Otley Beyer dates the first Iron age of the Philippines
from 500 B.C. to 500 A.D. and the middle and the last Iron

age from 500 to 1200 A.D.** And although Mlle. Colani

writes that the culture of the first Iron age should correspond
approximately to > that of the j jars: of Laos,** yet she admits

31 Colani, I, p. 123, Pp. 205, n. |, and 4th appendix, p. 298, Cf.

. 104f, and 120.

32 van der Hoop apad Cola, Il, p. 122 and compte-rendu,
pp. 574-75,

33 «Cf. my ertielé; Fouilles dndechine in ba Revue de Paris, \st
Dec., 1936, ‘p, 615£. of

34 R, Hleine-Geldern,, Vorgeschichiliche Giniidinten der Kolonial
indiachen Kunst, in Wiener Beitrage - -zur Kunst und Kultar-geshichte

_ Asiens, Bd. VIII, 1934, pp. “39; Cf, Colani, II, pp. 293f and 121f.

; 33 H. Otley Beyer, Types of Archeological Remaing in the Philippi-
nes, ‘in, Prachistorica ee sett mat sone is 1932, bal bits nee Colani,

ae oe ‘p. 123).

Fae Colani, u, pe 12, A, .o

THE MEGALITHIC TOMB OF XUAN-LOC 35

the possibility of an undeterminate but much more recent
prolongation of this industry.°7 Mr. Evans has drawn atten-
tion to the modern megaliths found among the tribes of
Assam and of Upper Burma as well as in the South Sea
islands from Nias to Kei,** and he affirms that almost an iden-

tity of culture from the Iron age to the age of porcelain exists

in India, Malay Peninsula, Borneo and the Philippines.**
India, which is so rich in monuments of all kinds, has pre-
served, as might be expected, among the populations which
are considered to be closely related, by their cultures, to the
ancient cultures of Indo-China,—among the Mundas and
the other group—the custom of raising menhirs to the
memory of the dead and of placing funeral urns under small
dolmens;*® there, too, articles of very recent type furnish
the tombs which appear to be pre-historic only on account
of the enormous lacunae in our historical information.“t Our
own experience induces us to prefer in principle the lowest
dates possible, and, to come back to the tomb of Xuan-léc,
it has no doubt to be placed amongst the relatively . recent
ones, as is suggested by its workmanship, its shaping by the
stroke of metallic toolg and by the:remarkable conservation, of
its angles, and more. pereeslary of. the clamping-groove o of
the walls.*

37 Ibid., pp. 105-7.
38 On Slab-built Graves in Perak, us
39 Evans, Notes on the. Relationship between Philippines feswihoe
Antiquities and some from Perak, in Journal cit., Ne. Xt, 7, "1929,
p. 191£; Colani, I, p. 249, n. 2. “ Ned “) Erion leet
40 A, Haberlandt, in G. ‘Buschan, Masierte
gart, 1923, p. 478 ve:
41 From the 13h to 17 ‘contiatied fo
south (op, cit.,: p. 476).
Py Trpatleted at the Sree

nS

as

et

pene
Sea

eS

i Literary and Epigraphic Notes
| Himansu Bhusan Sarkar.

ie [Continued from JGIS, Vol. IIL, p. 112]
IV. The find-Spot of Ko I.

ue This inscription belongs to the reign of king Tulodang
ut (919-921 A.D.) and has been incised on a set of three copper-
plates. It is a matter of great regret that the exact find-spot
of this record is not known. Dr. Krom! remarks that there
are some place-names in the inscription which we find earlier
in Central and then also in Eastern Java and that among the
people mentioned we come across a religious functionary
(marhyang) of Diéng and an inmate of the cloister of Siddha-
karya belonging to Diéng. The reference to Diéng is not
however of great importance, unless other place-names of
this inscription are found in the Diéng-region. For, in the
inscription of Kembang Arum,? whose find-spot is exactly
known, the sixth réma magaman is “the maker of the stone :
for the free-hold, (named) Si Sri, father of Bukang, hailing {
from Dihyang’”’ (Pl. IH, 13). He thus came to Kembang
Arum in Jogjakarta from a far-off place. The reputation of
Diéng in spiritual matters was such that it was found neces-
sary on many festive occasions to invite religious people from
that region. For finding out the locale of the inscription, it is
necessary to make a detailed examination, of the geographical
names in this i inscription and search for them in other similar
records. Such examination led me to the following results.
Tt has been found, for example, that the names of Layang,
-Lintakan, Kasugihan, ‘Turumangamwil, Miramirah, P.katan,
Datar; Wungkudu, Srangan, Mangeulungi, Mataram, Kaba-
_nyagan, Wuga, Kahuripan, Talaga, Gilikan, Pakalangkyangan
and Watuwatu ate also found 3 in other inscriptions of Java.
| Whenever the age ec of ‘these’ ecords'i is » known, Hey

a 1 Geschiedenis, p. 19. a ov, 195, Bit, B,

LITERARY AND EPIGRAPHIC NOTES 37

refer in most cases to the region of Kedu and in several -
cases, where the exact find-spot is not known, they have
been obtained from Jogiakarta. Thus, OJO, xxii, II. 14-15
(823 Saka, Kedu), KO, xiv, pl. B. 1. (803 Saka, Kedu}, KO,
xv, pl. B. 9 (804 Saka, Kedu) have all mentioned the place
of Kasugihan.’ Similarly, in OJO, ii, v° 3 (731 Saka, Diéng)
a place is found under Pikatan, while OJO, vi, 1. 5 (775
Saka)‘ presents a raka of Pikatan. A raka of Pikatan is
mentioned in OJO, vii, 1 (786 Saka} which was cb‘ained from
Kedu. The name reminds us, above all, of the raka of Pikatan
who has been mentioned in the dynastic list of Mataram-kings,
found in the well-known inscription from Kedu.° A famagat
Pikatan is also found in the inscription of Kembang Arum, (pl.
Il, a 13,) which was discovered in Jogjakarta. In the map,
the place Pikatan has been shown to the North-East of Sum-
bing. The place-name Kabanyagan which occurs in the
record under review is also noticed in OJO, vi, described
above. Smilarly in the inscription of Kuburan Candi, r°. 5
(753 Saka, Kedu),° we find the name of pamget Wuga. This
Wuga, may be a place about Prambanan.” lt is perhaps'more
interesting to note that the place Pakalangkyangan is under
Pagar wesi both in the record under notice as also in the
inecription of Kembang Arum.’ Similarly, the .place called

3 A place of this name also occurs in OJO, cil, b. As several place.
names in this inseription ate found in the records from Kedu, there is a
great possibility that OJO, cili, refers to that region or its neighbourhood’
Mr. Holle remarke in VBG, xxxix, B, p. 2, that this inseription has
palaeographical affinity with KO, xvii, which, as Cohen Stuart has
observed (KO, p. xii), has the same script as KO, f. A place of this name
has aleo been mentioned in the copper-plate. of Solo, published in ov,
1922, Bijil, L. (see x°. 2} with correction of Goris in Ibid., 1928, pp. 65-66.
Ite find-spot has not been described, LOG Se eg reine ean
4 In TBG, 47, p. 455, it has been described that the inseripti
obtdined from Kade eo AN eat eet ge: a

5 TBG, 76, pp. 172-215, particularly. 4-95, 210.

6 Ibid., 70, pp.:157-170. oT OV, 19285. i
included in the. residency of Jogjokarta, it i

38 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

Wungkudu is under Kilipan® both in this record and in the
inscription of Kembang Arum, (PI. fH, 3). Moreover, in the
copper-plate of 828 (2} Saka (OV., 1917), obtained from the
neighbourhood of Barabudur in Kedu, we find the village
of Srangan. Several inscriptions, whose find-spots are more
or less unknown, mention the names of Layang,*° Lintakan,}!
Turumangamwil,’? Miramirah,* Datar,’* Mataram,*® Mang-

9 The name has evidently been misread by Cohen Stuart while
editing KO, L Kilipan is also known from other sources. Cf. the
Amsterdam inscription of Balitung, (Inscr. I, v°. 15) published by Dr.
Van Naerssen in Aanw. Kol, Inst., 1934, Biji. 1.

10 Cf, OJO, xxxvi, v°. 12. According to the conjecture of
Rouffaer in Notulen, 1909, p. Ixxviii, it was obtained from Taji near
Prambinan. A place called Layang is also ‘found in KO, IX, I b 4 (808
Saka). KO, xvii of the time of Daksa mentions this place several times
(il. 16, 18, 25, 27). As has been mentioned before this inscription has
palaeographical similarity with the record under notice.

j Cf. OJO, viii, a. It belonged to the collection of Diedukeman at

ogaja, .

12 In the copper-plate of 800 Saka (Poerbatjaraka, Agastya, p, 75),

we find Taru® which is cbviously Turn’ of our record. In the copper-

plate of the Museem at Solo (OV, 1928, pp. 66-67), in A. I], this place _
‘has been mentioned. Its find-spot is not, however known, In OJO,
. mxxiii, Il 34 (848 (2?) Saka) we have the mutilated name of a village

read as Tu { } mangambil. The letters left out are probably ru so that
the full name would be Turn” It has been stated that the inscription
is from Jedung. Dr. Stutterheim has shown however in TBG, 67, p. 174
that the selfsame record could also be engraved on bronze or copper-
plates and even on paper (leriarl. Can OJO XXXII] be one of such
records, originally belonging to Central Java? Because besides Tu(ru)
mangambil the name of Miramirah of this inscription is also found in
Central Java. ne copper-plate of 800 Saka described by Poerbatjaraka in
his Agastya is dated. only 48 years prior to OfO, xxxiii and deals with
institutions of Central Java. So OJO, xxxiii may also refer to Central
ava. ; cS

- 13 As observed in the preceding note, Miramirah is mentioned in
OJO, xxxiii in the important inscription of Kedu, published by
Stutterheim, we also, find the name of this place (TBG, 67, p. 207). A

lace of this name has. also been mentioned in a copper-plate of the

useum at Solo, V°. 4 (OV, 1922, Bijl. L). ts find-spot has not been
mentioned. But.in the light. of place-names in this record it is possible
to hold that the inscription is connected with Central Java.

- 14 -A patihdatar has been mentioned in OJO ciiv a. This inscrip-
tion was obtained from the Regent of Banjarnegara, res. Banjumas. As
the find-spot.is not known, the reference is practically valueless. A
search for the geographical names in this inscription in other records of
Java may. however indicate its origin.’ Meanwhile, it may be remarked

aa) ae ae teference to the gura hyang of Kelasa in Pl.-1 b serves to show
tha :

it is possibly connected Diéng-region or Central Java.

15 » This name has been méntioned in the copper-plate’6f the Museum
elo. (OV, 1928, pp. .66-67) ply A, I. :Along , with . Turumangamiwil

this inscription are: found in records from. (

7

LITERARY AND EPIGRAPHIC NOTES B®

gulungi,** Kahwripan,”’ Talaga,** Giliikan,’* Watuwatu® and
Wru.*' There are reasons to believe that the inscriptions (or
at least some of them) mentioning these place-names originally
belonged to Central Java. To take one instance: the names
of Lintakan, Gilikan, Turumangamwil and Kasugihan of our
record occur in OGO, ciii a. Similarity of cne or two names
may be quite accidental, but when a series of identical
geographical names are found in two records, the coincidence
cannot be due to a mere accident. When we consider
along with these facts the palaeographical affinity of such
records the question is more or less decided.?? It is note-
worthy, however, that most of the geographical names of this
inscription, so far as they can be identified, occur in the
border-districts of Southern Kedu and Northern Jogjakarta.
It is probable therefore that the inscription originally belonged
to this region.

V. The Store of Pereng, 785 Saka.

There is a great divergence of opinion among scholars
regarding the contents of this inscription. . The difficulty has

16 Mulak is under Mangeu lungi in the copperplate Reetied in
the previous note.

17 The desa Kahuripan mentioned in our: reentd and in Joyapatra H.
(OV, 1925, pp. 59-60) is perhaps the same as Kuripan, i.e., the plain
about Baratengah (inv. No. 1034). See the remarks of Dr, Goris on this
name in his edition of the inscription of Kuburan aay in TBG, 70,

pp, 157-170. tk

18 It has been described as a. Eopperaitths" deéa in KO, x, i a. Lo
(802 Saka). The find-spot of this record is not known but from several
place-names it appears to refer to the heart. of Central Java.

19 This place is mentioned in OJO, cii a5, 12 and OJO, cilia. Both
these records belonged to the collection ‘of Dieduksman at Jogja. In the
copper-plate of the Museum ‘at — (OF, ae BPr fal csi plate has a
been mentioned again.

20 In another Hoge bits a Ba Museu: at Solo | ov, 192, sue u) paniea

r°’, 3, a place of this name has been. ao we x

Solo (OV, 1928, pp. 66-67.
22 ee ici — point. ‘of:

Saerere
een

ie

40 __. HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR_

mainly arisen, in my opinion, out of the mis-translation of a
Sanskrit couplet in this inscription by Prof. Kern** and this
mistake has been repeated in later publications. The
‘couplet** in question runs thus: |
BY “‘ydvat khe ravigasinau yaoad

dhatri® catussamudravrta

advad: daSadi§i** vayus taved bhaktir

walaing nadmnah//-"*7 (I. 5-6).

The last verse is translated by Kern as: “‘so long they
honour him whose name is Walaing.”” The use of genitive in
namnah makes me doubtful of Kern’s translation. J consider
the text to run as: “"...... tacad walaing-namnah (janasya)
bhaktih (varddhayeta)."’ Accordingly | translate the couplet
quoted above as:

‘As long as the Sun and the Moon endure in the sky, as
long as the earth is surrounded by the four oceans,

‘‘As long as the wind (pervades) the ten quarters, so long
shall endure the devotion of him whose name is Walaing.”

This translation at once solves the. outstanding problems
regarding the contents of this inscription. This Walaing re-
fers to the raka of Walaing (viz.) Fa Kumbhayoni. Fu Kum-
bhayoni is here the name of a person. At any rate, Agastya~
Kumbhayoni is not intended here and this view appears
reasonable from the following considerations :

(a) Pu Kumbhayoni is described in the inscription. as
the great-grandson of the king of Halu’. The same epithet
cannot apply to Agastya.

(b) It is difficult to understand why, ameng all Javanese
inscriptions we should find in this instance only a deity or seer

ag the donor of sawah-s. .Dr. Poerbatjaraka has offered not a
very eet nee. ee this phenomenon.

m ‘The text may w seen in Ko, xxiii. or. t Poerbatara, Agasiya,
» AD STS oN é
a a: ‘Read dhatn.

ety bouees ‘s. ‘ligt
this” ‘inseription ‘ikcesice me be
PP. 14-19; | Geschiedenis, PP. ‘165-166..

red

LITERARY AND EPIGRAPHIC NOTES 41

(c) Excepting accidental similarity of names there is
nothing to show that the great seer is aimed here. Prof.
Krom seems to recognise the force of this point in Geschie-
denis (p. 166).

(d) If Agastya was intended here we should have ex-
pected the usual honorific of sang or sang hyartg instead of
Pu, as they are more appropriate than Pu. |

Dr. Bosch, while rightly criticising Poerbajaraka in TBG.,
67, pp. 471-72, has fallen back on his well-known theory
(TBG., 64, pp. 236 ff.) to explain the Agastya-problems raised
by this inscription. It would have been better if the process
were reversed. Meanwhile, it appears to me that his views
enunciated in TBG., 64, pp. 236 ff. need careful re-examina-
tion. At any rate, the stone of Pereng does not help him to
establish for Java a cult closely analogous to the Devaraja-cult
of Further-India. The supposed relation of the stone of
Pereng to the Agastya-cult being thus extremely doubtful,
the record in question does not signify the return of the royal
sceptre from the hands of the Buddhist Sailendra kings to the
Brahmanical Hindus.

To return to Pu Kumbhayoni who is mentioned again in
1. 17 under the name of Kalagaja._ In my opinion this Kalaégaja
does not refer to Agastya and is used here simply as a synonym
for Kumbhayoni. This custom was widely followed by

Sanskrit authors. If Kalaégaja refers to Agastya, how can_

his ‘sons and grandsons’ ({i.c., descendants,) obtain abode and
life-subsistence in the god-house called Bhadraloka (Il. 17-18)?
It is true that Agastya is the traditiona founder of a Brahmani-
cal dynasty in Java, but here we have to do not with a
mythical personage but with a historical figure and, as such,
that argument does not apply.
The next question is: who is this Walaing? In I. 21-22,
seven places ave been mentioned ag the dega of Kumbhoyoni,
the sixth one being Walaing. It is obyious therefore that the
epithet of Kumbhayoni, viz., take walaing (=raka+i Wala-
ing=lord of Walaing) is derived | from: this place-name.
This rake walaing is simply mentioned as Walaing in |. 6,

probably for the sake of metre. To mention the Jand-lord by .

6

ott RR

Ply
i
“

42 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

the name of his desa was not perhaps an unusual phenomenon
in, ancient Java.

Summiarising the above, we may set forth our opinion re-
garding the contents of this inscription thus: the opening
Sanskrt verses refer to a stone-liiga whihc stood in a tent,
thus being located in an unguarded place exposed to weather

and all classes of people. In 785 Saka Kumbhayoni built the

god-house called Bhadraloka (probably made of durable

material), for housing the Siva-linga (can it be a Bhadregvara-

linga?) and made arrangements for offering caru to the god
from the income of the donated sawah-field named Tamwa
hurang.

Five Reliefs at Poelo in Tapanoeli (Sumatra)
By Dr, F. M. Schnitger

In. June, 1935, | excavated at Poelo, on the northern bank
of the Panei River, Tapanoeli, a small temple dating from
the [1th or 12th century. It is built on a little hill, reinforced
with stones. There is no room for a circular wall; only on
the north side is there a small space. The steps, therefore,
are built on this side. In the north-west corner is a construc-
tion of natural stones barely more than 2:25 meters square.

The temple itself was formerly a threefold stipa ; in the
centre stood a square tower with extensions, and on opposite
sides stood two towers of similar construction. The excava-
tion revealed more than fifteen stone umbrellas of which the
largest is | meter in diameter. The decoration of these towers
consists of strings of pearls dropping from the mouths of
Kala heads between which appear bells, while here and there
are represented celestial beings with fly fans in their hands.
The temple measures 4-03 x 878 meters and was decorated
originally with eleven reliefs. Five of these I found more or
less complete; of one there were only mutilated remnants of
arms and legs which have no scientific value. _

The natural stone reliefs pictured herewith measure
38x 4914 cm. and represent a series of dancing figures— a
monk with skulls as ear ornaments and a flame at the right
elbow (Fig. 1), a demon with a flower in his ear (Fig. 2), a
man im a dancing pose of extreme abandon (Fig. 3), an atti-
tude found in Cambodia but never in Java, an elephant (Fig.
4) and a bull (Fig. 5). The first relief seems to indicate that
the temple was founded. by the bhairawas, who built all the
large temples along the Panei. The: elephant reminds. one
of a popular superstition in Sumatra, according to. which:
elephants assemble in the jungle to dance in: the full: ‘moon.
In Tapanoeli. ths bull stil i een im

aportant réle the Feasts To

44 F, M, SCHNITGER

of the dead, while in the temple dances of Tibet a bull
appears as the servant of Yama, the God of death.

Probably this Buddhist temple was the grave of some
royal personage and the reliefs portray his servants or meny
bers of his family. Although Buddhistic in character they are
taken from the Sivaite theology in which the world originated
in a heavenly dance.

These reliefs differ considerably from thats in. the great
temple at Bahal, which lies in the immediate vicinity. Not
only are the latter much larger and constructed of brick, but
they represent figures in different clothing and dance poses
against an empty background. In Poelo the backeround is
filled by conventionalized garment slips. This difference in
style plainly indicates a difference in time and origin. A few
very small reliefs of dancing figures, of which two hold drums
in their hands, 1 discovered at Si Djoreng Belangah on the
Barocemon. In style they are more akin to the reliefs at
Bahal than. to those at Poelo.

The latter reliefs are represented herewith, and I hope
that the readers of this journal will succeed in indicating the‘r
Indian prototypes. If | am not mistaken these must exist

somewhere in South India,”

1 Readers who are interested | in other Hindu antiquities in
Sumatra will perhaps be interested in. my: book “Archeological Discoveries
in Padang Lawas” and “Hinda Antiquities. on..the Batang Hari’*, pub-
lished in 1936 by E. J. Brill, Leiden.” In the second ‘book (p. 15) 1 have

: assigned the large. temples. On the Panei- to” ‘the Hth and 12th centuries ; |

the iam ones are gicseagls of a “womewhat more. Tecent x cate.

ner er

ee cups = ee See oe SSS sige ie ae

g “Bid p ‘B14 ¢ Bry

JHA old
Sse wana ant RECN AOE A

MISCELLANY
Kol and Munda

A New Aspect of the Austro-Asiatic Problem,
By Dr. J. Przyluski

In scientific language, every term must be accurate and
strictly definite. A badly-chosen word suggests a wrong idea;
from the uge of two different words for the same reality, con-
fusion may arise; an imperfect terminology can impede and
delay very much the progress of research.

The study of the un-Aryan languages of India has long
been hindered by an inadequate terminology, and the pains
which Prof. S. K. Chatterji has taken in order to precise the
value of the terms which name them must be put to his
credit. In an article published in The Calcutta Review
Sept, 1923, p. 451 ff.), under the title The Study of Kél he
observes that the name Killa came to be given to some
aboriginal tribes, probably by the middle of the first millenium
after Christ. From this Middle Indo-Aryan word, the New
Indo-Aryan word Kal is derived. The word Kalla is obscure
but seems to be “‘an early Aryanised form of the old national
name of the Kl people of the east, which at the present day
is found in he various Kl dialects. as her, bois hé, koro,
etc. (=“‘man’’}.’” |

B. H. Hodgson first studied the Kal iahidacres and he.
thought they were allied. to Dravidian. Max Miiller in 1854
dissociated the Ksl languages from Dravidian and classed
them as an independent group, | which he named Munda.

Prof, Sten Konow writes in the Introduction | to. ‘the
Munda family (Linguistic Servey of India, Vol. IV, po 8):

“The pkerrie of the Scie fe as athe ead sie is

‘woman’ in the * Manda pening i ay, a
in India, Calcutta, wre PP. 2, i

ae omic aren

_of primary prefixes such : as ka, Ri, ka, ia.
[oy ee such as kan ‘kan,

46 J. PRZYLUSKI

thus due to Max Miiller, and it has been retained in this
Survey because it is that originally given by the scholar who
first clearly distinguished the family from the Dravidian forms
of speech, and because other names which have been pro-
posed are objectionable for other reasons. It is not, however,
a very appropriate denomination. The word Mundi is used
by foreigners to designate the Mundas of the Ranchi district,
i.e., only a section of the whole race. In Mundari it denotes
the village chief and is also used as an honorific designation
of landed proprietors, much in the same way as Maajhi in
Santali. Munda therefore properly only applies to that section
of the tribe whe speaks the Mundari language, and its use as
a common designation for the whole family is only a con-
ventional one.”

In the paper just referred to, Prof. S. K. Chatterji suggests
that the term Kd] should be preferred to Munda. Kal, says

Prof, 5S. K. Chatterji, “‘is in every respect a better name than

Munda: it is an accurate term, an ancient term and a term
which includes the distant Karkiis as well....... *  Neverthe-

less, the term Munda is still used by the majority of scholars,
-and the use that other writers make of the name Kal to des-
_cribe the same languages i is apt to create a confusion i in the
“reader's mind. :

Having in view the most recent works upon the subject,
I believe that a new solution must be offered. The so-called
Munda languages are very different at the present time from
the languages which the ancient Kol used to speak. The
Indo-Aryan name Ks reproduces a very ancient un-Aryan
original, and Munda is a term recently attested. Therefore I
suggest that the term Munda be retained to describe the
Munda languages under their modern form, and that the name
of Kal languages be. given to the ancient speeches which
modern languages have eed Let us precise the reasons
for this distinction,
. A great number of ancient ae words, among those
borrowed by the Indo-Aryan, ‘are. characterized by a system
_ bat...  etc., and of |
_ tam, tan,, .. ete.

KOL AND MUNDA | 47

: kadali, kandali, kambala, karpasa, karpiira, tambila,
etc.” By their formation, these words are plainly connected
with the words of the Indo-Chinese languages which belong
to the Mon-Khmér group. The Indian tongues where they
came from must, then, have belonged to the family of langu-
ages which has been called Austro-Asiatic by Father W.
Schmidt. If we give the name of Kal languages to those
ancient speeches of India, we shall say that the Austro-
Asiatic family includes three groups of speeches: (1) K6! (2)
Mon-Khmér; (3) Annam.

As to the modern Munda languages, they differ widely
from the Austro-Asiatic languages by their system of suffixes,
by the whole of their grammar and of their vocabulary. M.
G. de Hevesy, whose works have contributed so much to
bring those differences to light,* would like to separate those
languages from the Mon Khmér languages, and to connect _
them with the Uralian family. However, the modern Munda
languages still contain many Kol elements, and this Austro-
Asiatic substratum must not be overlooked even if it is
covered by eo additions of Uralian, and possibly
Altaic, origin.®

In short, if the terminology which I suggest is adopted,
we shall say that the ancient group of Kal languages, which
belonged to the Austro-Asiatic family, have been altered,
subsequently to the Aryan invasion, by. additions from the
north. From the fusion of these elements, the modem
Munda languages have resulted, which offer undeniable affi-.
nities with the Uralian languages.

2 For a list of thoes ues with the indication of the works which «:
refer to them, cf. Regamey, Bibliographie analytique des travaux
relatifs aux éléments anaryens dans la civilisation et Tes lenges de Tinde,
BEFEO.,.t. 34, pp. 429-66. |

3 On W, Schmidt's Munda-Mon-Khmer comparisons, BSOS., Val. 6,
pp, 187-200; Finnisch-Ugrisches aus Indien, Wien, : 1932; A small’ ‘contri-
bution to the knowledge of the Manda languages, in  Miscellang: segesen AR
S. Ramamurti, pp. 30-32. ae ett

4 G. Coedés, Review of Finnisch grieche: 7
1932, pp. 580-581, ©

5. Proyhaski, des Line dari Ind

48 j. PRZYLUSKI

In Buddhist literature, the Kdliya are named often
enough. According to Mahavastu 1, p. 353-355, the Kaliya
would be the issue of a rsi named Kéla and of the daughter
of a Sakya chief. The name Kola and the derived Kaliya
reproduce faithfully the un-Aryan root Rol. The Mahdvasiu
I, 355, relates that a noble Sadkya, called Subhiti, married a
Kéliya woman. who gave him seven daughters. I hope to be
able in the near future to prove that the Sakyas were a people
who came from the Upper Asian steppes. The unions
between Sakya and Kéliya cr other alliances of the same
kind, are probably the origin of the linguistical fusions which
have altered the Ka] languages and given birth to the modern
Munda tongues.

NOTES

The Growth of Western Ideas about India

On the 27th March, 1937, a lecture was delivered before
the Society under the above title by Dr. Hermann Goetz
of the Kern lIustitute, Leyden. The following résumé is
‘given as far as possible in the words of the lecturer.

Within a few centuries the achievements of science
have brought together countries and continents hitherto
almost completely separated from and unknown to each
other. Thus, relations of every sort have become
inevitable between them, but these relations are still
disturbed by a mass of mutual misunderstanding. And
as people often forget, how difficult it has been to arrive
even at our present standard of knowledge, they are apt
to interpret the misguided acts of the opposite party as
expressions of . intended neglect or disregard. | pass
over a certain disregard caused by the national
self-conceitedness of certain half-educated classes » «i
every country of the West and the East, | because © thi
narrow-mindedness is directed against every neigh our—
even within the same country—whose . manners differ from.
their own customs. This is rather a ‘problem of : ‘social ;
psychology and has nothing to do with the relations between

the East and the West. But there are other more im-
portant obstacles which have been and 2 are. salt aie the “way.
of a real understanding. : Fe

Culture is ultimately a_ qoisiaad, phenome or
even the material side of | civilisation as. b
erpduet of it. We can export an ort.

50 NOTES

development of spiritual life, and any promulgation of new
ideas will be love’s Jabour lost as long as there is no
response sprung from the mental problems and wants of
the receiving culture. Moreover, as cultural life is not only
creation, but also tradition, every new impression will
be mixed with and disfigured by the association with
similar older conceptions. Cultural influences, therefore,
are far more slow-going than the spread of material goods.
We must not confound the growth of conscious ideas
about another country, nation or civilisation with all the
influences emanating from the latter. The influence of India
on the West in many cases only prepared the ground on
which a conscious knowledge of India could grow in later
times. For a number of these influences, though enrich-
ing the treasure of human culture, have been working
outside the consciousness of the peoples concerned and
have. thus contributed almost nothing to the mutual
understanding between India and the West. If, e.g., the —
story of Barlaam and Josephat is an adaptation of
Mahayana-Buddhist theme to Western Mediaeval thought,
it has not transmitted the least idea of Buddhism or Indian
culture to Western consciousness. These observations will
be confined to the development of the conscious. under-
standing of Indian culture in the West, as it can be
presumed that the growth of the idea of the Western
* ah in the Indian mind is a well-known phenomenon. |
+ Until the end of the Middle Ages Europe had only very
=i dies and fantastic © ‘éonceptions of India. It is true that
 gome Western travellers, - especially. Marco Polo, had
visited it; itis also true that some Arabian accounts were
“Rot unknown to Western. scholars. But these accounts
Were too few to correct: other strange conceptions derived
cae from older: sources: as the Greek accounts : ae ana aoer: $s
NOTES ($0900. ols)

accounts had been more and more distorted not only
because of the complete impossibility to control and
critically corroborate the facts mentioned therein, but
also through the bent of the human mind, especially in
the Middle Ages, towards extraordinary events and
miracles. Thus even the few well- founded. facts of these
sources were wholly obliterated by the hear-say stories
which were incorporated in the same books.

This situation was only changed. when the Portuguese
discovered the direct route to India. round the South of
Africa. We must, however, not overrate the immediate
consequences of this event on the European mind. On
the one hand the fleld thrown open to Western investiga~
tion by the discovery of the whole globe was so immense
that even the simple mapping out of all these oceans,
coasts and river-mouths was a task for generations.
Portuguese travellers and expeditions, of course, visited
algo the peoples on these shores and jn the interior, in
India as well as in Africa and Brazil, and missionaries, | too
began to seek closer relations with them. But here - too,
the mass of new impressions was too ‘enormous as. to .
really absorbed by the Western mind. No nly that it ‘
was even practically impossible. to. make accessib 0:
of the accounts-of missionaries’ and trav I 3 to the
public, even numbers. wok: orta ok
compilations based-on: this ‘unp
to wait for publication until the” :
even up to the present. day.. There were. ‘greater _.

For all these sens ee h oe contributed to. dest
: 1eY ae n

52 NOTES

on the reconstruction of European civilisation marked by
the intellectualisation of social life through a capitalistic
economy and a bureaucratic state, and by that of spiritual
life through humanism and the reformation of the Christian
Church. We must be conscious of the bitterness of
this struggle, of the devastating wars and revolutions, of
the prosecutions and sufferings, of the hatred and _ the
enthusiasm aroused by these movements, in order to
understand how much they were for the moment to
overshadow the interest in all those new discoveries in
far-off continents. On the other hand this new self-assertion
was likely to affect also the views of those who remained
in contact with the East and who shaped the ideas of
Europe about it. Renaissance Italy and France in the
Quattrocento, over-refined and worldly, had not loitered to
adopt many of the manners and customs then prevalent

- 4n Byzantium or in the Muhammedan World. But the very
zeal of militant Christian propaganda which had driven the
. Spaniards to Granada and then to. America, which had |
_ driven the Portuguese into the rear of the Muhammedan
Kingdom of Morocco, and so along the African coast to

India, made them the protagonists of Christian orthodoxy.
And this orthodoxy prevented them from arriving at a real
understanding ‘of foreign civilisations. A scheme of the
ideas then in fashion about. the non-Christian world might
in its main outlines have the following aspect. The centre
of human culture is the Christian nations whose ways
of life and thought are without any doubt the only exterior

‘and “moral ‘standard...Then follows the Muhammedan
_. world from Morocco to. China and India,—the Moors, the
Tatars and Cathy,~—which through many centuries had been
a commercial intercourse with ltaly, Catalonia and France,
fs which was’ ‘civilised. though in a less degree than the
Europeans; “which” was not absolute heathen because « it

be! lieved at least 3 in one god nd-had ‘some’ vague: ideas of
eek oe ess civilized: world. a there
ind not--worth’ the: while. or

NOTES - 3

the consideration by a good Christian. These people lived
on the shores of the newly discovered ocean and the
difference between an Indian from Venezuela or Brazil,
Negro from the Congo or a South Indian raja or a Javanese
prince did not import so much. Thus you will understand
why the name Indian, first extended to the population of
America because of a geographical misunderstanding, was
not given up. Of course, some people on the spot had
not always quite the same ideas, but they could not
overcome the preponderence of ideas whose general
tendency they themselves did not question.

A further stage was reached with the coming of the
Netherlanders and the English, and, somewhat later, also
of the French. A new order had setiled and the passions
of the age of political, social and religious strife were
ebbing down, The interests of the new coloniers, therefore,
were more commercial than religious and military. Besides
the Portuguese system of. tribute-levying _ and plundering
could not be held up without the maritime monopoly of one
single power, nor could it satisfy the increasing demand for
colonial products. The peoples who now took the lead,
were, no doubt, also by their character predestined to a
suchlike policy. These other interests entailed an intensi-
fied study of the oversea countries, especially of their
economic and social conditions. It brought about.. the
financing of indigenous industries and the foundation of new
ones. It brought about an ‘intensified observation of the
policy and administration . of. the princes with whom they
had to come to some agreement. For when. financing the
industries on the shore, the Europeans had to leave the
security of their ships and strongholds and had to mix with. rs
a population which they were not strong enough to subdue. ..

The result of this changed attitude was that for the first.
time the Europeans got a pretty. just jdea of what Indi
really was. Numbers of books: ee : travellers and ot
persons - avi a i .
character of the

54 ‘NOTES
the political events at the Mughal at the Deccani courts, of
the products and the industries, and even some crude
knowledge of India’s intellectual culture. Some of the
most important Indian languages, even Sanskrit, had already
been studied by the first. missionaries of the 16th century,
but their learning had been overlooked in Europe. It was
especially in the second half of the 17th century that
Western scholars became interested in the main facts of
Indian mythology and legend, that the crudest contents of
the Puranas and epics were summarized, that grammatical
abstracts of some of the more important Southern languages
and some extracts from Indian didactic literature were
published. These books were illustrated by pictures, drawn
after original panoramas of Indian places by European
artists and Indian miniature paintings. This growing interest
was further increased by the import not only of raw products
_ but.also of works of decorative art from India. Especially
fine Indian textiles found a great market and fora time
aroused a sort of ‘‘Indian fashion’’ in Western’ society.
And with it the’ collecting of Indian curios and paintings
became fashionable. . Indian collections and rooms were
not. seldom met with among Westem princes, nobles, rich
merchants and artists in England, Holland, France, Italy,
_ Austria, ete. during the late 17th and the early 18th cen-
_ tuties. And thus the theme was taken up also by the artists
of .the..time, such sai See Lastman, de Gelder,
iepolo, ete. gi
But this conception of India ar eudh in common with

: contemporary Western . eyes. Or, to explain it somewhat
. more in, detail, itwas the India. of the Mughal aristocracy

‘ ; Perio fates s and. North. Africa and aloha to tee sine

that of sour. present’ days. -It was Mughal India, seen with |

ed with similar features” from. -Muhammedan ‘life in.

a ae
NOTES : 55

tions of Asia, especially the Chinese and Japanese. Even
in first class scientific books of the early 11th century you
r will fnd the Mughal Emperors depicted among a surround-
ing of Chinese temples, or a purely Indian town like Bombay
or Surat crowded with Japanese Samurais. You thus see
that the general conception developed during the times
Portuguese supremacy, i. e., the threefold conception of a
{ Christian, a Muhammedan and a heathen world, had not
yet been overcome, it had only been chiselled out more in
detail, the Muhammedans were looked at with frank sym-
pathy for their aristocratic valour and with admiration for
their great rulers and conquerors, the Hindus were regarded
as queer and curious, but quite respectable people no
more to be classed with American Indians and niggers, but
with the highly civilised nations of the Far East.

Then India was eclipsed by the interest of European.
scholars and connoisseurs for other parts of the globe. —
But. it. was this very neglect which prepared the European. —
mind for a better understanding of India’s cultural life. For
in the same way as the discovery of enormous oceans ‘and
continents never heard of before had contributed to destroy 3
the Mediaeval. forms of life and thought, so the growing
knowledge of foreign civilisations began to throw. the ‘doubt ‘ree
‘into the hearts of European. thinkers about: the infallibility |
of the Christian doctrine... When Western. philosophy began
to. set aside revelation. and det. itself” be guided only. by
logic deduction and ‘probability, there did t no more remain
any reason why the institutions and ideas of other peoples
should be measured with another scale. Montesquieu’s
“Esprit des Lois’’: is an example of this new comparative __
‘method, and his ‘‘Lettres Persanes’’ another of the criticism.
of European manners. from, the pretense: Cag of vies cof
another civilisation. ,
Europe then was, known 0 ©

; a eold.. After: ~ daintiness » the ees ‘meh Pest

56 | NOTES

reason in Chinese Confucianism. At the same time the
over-refined French connoisseurs were enthusiastic of the
porcelain and the grotesque curios from the decaying
China of the later Manchu emperors. And when the
Chinoiserie fashion in art, literature and science had passed
away the Western mind became interested in the primitive
peoples. The reaction on the over-refinedness of the Roccoco
had been Rousseau’s call ‘‘Back to nature!*’ The discovery
of the Polynesian civilisations in the Pacific Ocean by Cook,
La Perouse, etc., and the better acquaintance with the Red
Man. because of the North American War of Independence
had given a visible embodiment to the sentimental roman-
ticism responding to this call.

At the same time, however, European became again
more and more attracted by the Indian problems. Since
the foreign policy of Lewis XIV had ousted the Nether-
landers, Portuguese and Spaniards from the frst rank of.
colonial competition, European ‘politics had centred around —
the gigantic struggle between France and Great Britain for
the hegemony of the oceans. The blending of this struggle

6 with the civil wars following the disintegration of the
.. Moghul Empire had divided the Indian states into a pro-
French and a pro-British group, and ended in the building

up of British India after the defeat of the Nawabs of Arcot,

‘Bengal and Oudh, of: the Sultan of Mysore and of the
“Maratha. princes. Though the ‘aristocratic civilisation of
| 8th and early’ 19th century India did not-appeal to the
European ideals of those” days, it fascinated Western mind

in another way. The new ideals.of simplicity and primiti-
Vity had aroused also . the sense of the great, the awful,

NOTES ‘37

many Western children’s books, detective stories and cinema
pictures. The other attractive side of India was her
antiquity. The quest for the beginnings of civilisation was
of course no new problem for Europe. But, for centuries
scholars had been convinced that these were to be sought
in the country of the Bible, Palestine, or in one of their
neighbours. Inthe 18th century they were first sought in
China, later on, with the growing influence of free-masonry,
in Egypt. The rediscovery of the monuments of Egypt's
great past, therefore did contribute very much to the
glamour surrounding Napoleon’s expedition to the East.
But at the same time other people had sought the beginnings
of human civilisation in India; Voltaire had already
proclaimed this thesis on the authority of the apocryphal
Ezour-Veda, and the translation of the Oupnekhat and
the Zend-Avesta by Anquetil Duperron and the establish-
ment of the relation between the European languages and
Sanskrit by Bopp give new force to this conception. gis

For two centuries Europe had been engaged in conti-
nuously increasing commercial relations with India. During
this period of intensifying contact her exterior conception —
of India had become more and more definite and her more
and more independent outlook on the history of humanity
had made her eager to understand also her spiritual culture.
But commercial relations were not a suitable starting-point,
however, was found, when a British ‘administration was set
up in India. The administration of a foreign country
necessitated the training of a staff of efficient officials as
well asa closer acquaintance with the laws and customs of
India. Many mistakes were made. because of ‘an’ insuffi-

cient knowledge of Indian life. Nevertheless we must. |

admire the exertions made. ne a number of high officials like
Wilkins, William Jones, | Colebrooke, Tod, . » Milson,
Hodgson and. Hastings’ to ‘penetrate - into. the: mysterious
treasures: of Andiag learning” and Beelys

58 | ‘NOTES

what enthusiasm the greatest German poet, Goethe,
received the publication of the ‘‘Sakuntala’’ and of
other Sanskrit works. We need not mention the Indian

influence on so many writers, artists, and musicians in

the whole of Europe during the romantic age of the early
19th century. But how did allthese influence the Western
conception of Indian culture? Itis rather difficult to give
an exact answer to this problem. In fact, it enriched

- Western knowledge of India, but at the same time it

hopelessly disturbed European ideas about this country.
Since this time you have two antagonistic outlooks on
Indian civilisation; for you cannot bring together the “Black

Hele” and ‘“‘Sakuntala’’. Of course, they have as much in
common as the Bucolica of Horace and the terrorism of the

French Revolution. But Indian history was then still almost

unexplored, and the few known facts were only within the

reach - of ‘a few specialists. India has so long been the
“country without history’? even to so many European

scholars, that those expressions of her culture which had
‘become a part of European artistic and intellectual life,

only with many difficulties could get any connections with

historical reality. For those who knew India only from the

poems; the translations of her: literature, her philosophic

and religious thoughts, it become more and more a fairy-

country without the realities of everyday life, full of the

-mrysteries and miracles which travellers had narrated since

the times of Herodotus. When they came in contact with

the real India, this was to them the pilgrimage to the holy
vestiges of oa by-gone Golden Age. destroyed by Muha-
mimadan fanaticism and European lack of understanding.
As romantic as this conception was, it has been very im-

; portant for our comprehension of Indian cultural life. For the
time the stress was laid on the Hindu side of. Indian _civili-
 setion - and the susceptibility : of the Western mind awakened

Pe forms - of thought. which: hitherto. shad ‘seemed -hope-_
ange when. compared with, the: current. ideale

NOTES . 49

of Buddhism, of the Upanishads, of the Yoga, of
Theosophy.

This curious situation was toa certain measure due to
the special character of the relations between India and
Europe. India was under a British administration, but her
economic relations with the West, though in the ascendant,
had not yet visibly changed. The European merchants, be-
sides independent tea~ and indigo-planters, etc., were
generally concentrated in the -big coastal cities and held
aloof as much as possible from the people. The real _
contact with the upper country as well as with the educated
Indian classes lay, however, with the British administrators
and missionaries of whom many got a deeper interest in
their Indian surrounding with which they were not only
in daily contact through their administrative routine, but
which was also in many cases the almost only hope for
new intellectual food on their lonely outposts. Thus

the connection’ between India and the West, though

continually intensified, had become very onesided, and the
disappointment became inevitable on both sides as soon
as the improving possibilities of communication extended
the number of visitors to India. wad of the ° ‘Indians

‘coming in touch with these.

This was the work of Tourism sinive the pon half. sof

thé 19th century. No doubt, sight-seeing has been everty-

where a rather disagreeable stage in the relations. between
two nations.. For the traveller who finds all difficulties
removed from his way, in most cases has not the intention to —
learn to understand the country he visits, but to enjoy its
picturesque sides of landscape, life and art. And as: he
is not inclined to take the pains of an eamest study, he -on
the whole lo on its populsion as ee ‘only “because

te developed sense of indiv:

60 | NOTES

veller, and only servants, small merchants, jugglers and
beggars try to make their best to squeeze shamelessly money
from him. These unpleasant effects of tourism are to be
found everywhere, they tend to estrange even the European
nations from each other. Its contribution to international
understanding is rather indirect because it smoothens the way
for the smaller but more important and influential number
of those who really wish to learn and to comprehend.
Tourism in India has, no doubt, on the one hand fostered
the stupid disregard of coloured men of whom the tourists
mostly saw the least representative types. But on the
other it has more and more :deepened the knowledge
of the better-situated classes in the West, and thus prepared
the change of mind which is obvious since the last decades
of this century.

- As in the [6th and [7th centuries the general superiority
of the Christian religion and culture had been an undoubted
fact, the supremacy of the white man and of the Western
technical civilisation had been unquestioned during the [9th
century. But asin that other case this somewhat massive
belief had to give way toa more critical attitude of mind.
At the end of the 17th century the intellectual elite of Europe
had come to the conclusion that many of the rites and
myths of the Christian religion were only the result of
Western history, and that the essential ethics underlying
them were the general possession of humanity, though
in’ different garbs and changing intensity. At present
Europe understands that the temporary control of the earth
through science and colonial conquests was not the inborn
right of the white peoples, but the consequence of
certain moral qualities which some social groups of some
Western nations had acquired. For the success of Western
civilisation -is the. result. of an organisation of | thought and
life which was. only possible. because of an extraordinarily
idual responsi bility towards persons,

sive. belief in. the value of
a dangerous shock by.
ee]

NOTES 61

ite unhealthy social and international consequences. Con-
servatives as well as socialists had brought home the convic-
tion that science. was, no doubt, a meansto improve the
material standard of man, but not an idel to be attained for
its own sake. The disastrous results of the last war had
made this fact quite obvious. And the revolutionary crises
following on this war had laid open the moral bases which
alone could conserve the standard of this technical civilisa-
tion, as well as the absence of these moral qualifications in
considerable parts of the Western population. On the other
hand the rise of Japan, the growth of young and prosper-
ous industries and modern commercial organisations, the
renascence of a national artistic and intellectual life in most
of the overseas countries opened her eyes to the fact that at
least certain classes of those new countries were on the way
to acquire those very character-qualities which had given
Europe her international influence. The competition of |
American, Argentine, Indian, Japanese goods on the Euro-
pean markets, the numbers of modern trained men and
women from other continents coming to the universities of
Europe had made this fact obvious to every one. And
finally the moral crisis of Western life had encouraged many
people to study Eastern civilisations and to learn to under-
stand their proper qualities. The countries which since the.
last war most attracted the interest of Europe are America,
Russia, Japan, India and China. In the years following the
war there was to be found a revival of interest in Indian cul- _
ture and Indian modern developments among a good deal

of the Western nations. Asin allthe earlier cases there is,

of course, no general change of puclic opinion. There are

people who see Western life endangered by the growth of

the coloured races. There are people, specially amongst .
artists, who believe in the. spiritaal superiority of the East, :
But there is also an increasing mass. of ‘persons, « specially ;
among the intellectual circles, whe are = cored that. the

2 , NOTES

culture, but rather a division between the masses of
those who have lost their influence by resisting an
unavoidable development and those who will be able
to build up a modern form of life based on the results
of modern science as well as on the broader cultural
outlook resulting from the mixture of the East and the
West. They believe in Western culture, notas a special
property of Europe, but asa general human discipline which
had found its present expression in the West only because
of accidental historical reasons which will be only the fore-
runner of similar—national—disciplines in the East as well
as in other parts of the world. This has nothing to do with
any special theory of public life like socialism, liberalism,
capitalism and fascism, it is rather a question of a will
to master the problems of present day life according
tothe special exigencies of every country or nation.
The difficulties of these problems have increased with
the growing density of the population in the whole world.
The “old methods of agriculture, industry, commerce,
etc., have become obsolete, not because they represent
the historical form of cultural life of any nation, but
because they were adopted to a density of population
which was only a. small part of the present one.
Western technical civilisation was but the first great ex-
periment in supplying an enormously growing poulation
with food and all the. other facilities of life by an
Z intensified production and. distribution. This experiment
had been a success because the-special geographical position
“of Europe protected her from those: devastating invasions
OF less cultivated tribes which’ have always hampered the
"progress: of the. flourishing | Asiatic civilisations. But the
essential ‘fact of . this: technical ‘civilisation is “not that
os ‘Wgantic: cnbeaerie of nature: Linea isan — masses

i
. .< :
:

4
oe
facts and experiments. The sense of responsibility to-
wards time which cause the Western man to make use
of every minute of his life and which alone has made
possible the exact collaboration of so many people.
And the sense of responsibility towards his fellow beings
which guided his exertions from exploitation to construc-
tive work. No doubt is possible that it was the Christain
belief that you have to account in all eternity for the
good and bad deeds of a single life, which has stimulated
this moral attitude. As far as this attitude held sway
over the Western mind, Western civilisation was a success;
when the luxuries provided by this very civilisation diverted
the Western mind for this austere philosophy, the failure
was inevitable, and the instruments of fortune and happiness
turned into those of disaster and death.

That the non-European countries will accept the special
ideals of Western culture, is improbable and even un-
desirable. That they must adopt some form of life built up
on a similar basis of active responsibility towards life,
is unavoidable; for there is only the choice between such an
intensified form of human activity or the way back to
war, hunger and epidemics. Such ethics have, however,
been preached by many teachers and saints among every
cultured nation, and they will be the touchstone of the
future of each nation when her growing population. will
compel her to modernise the traditional forms of life. And
as the last half. century has shown, India has taken this way,
like many other non-Europen countries. The more this
process is going on, the more there will be no question of
any general attitude of the West in regard to India, but
only the choice between the disregard of backward people
against backward people of other manners.and customs, or
the kespec! and esteem of efficient people; for gach oth

é4 NOTES

terete ie Pater

ae * ® % *

During the last six or seven months the Greater India
Society arranged with the kind co-operation of the National
Council of Education, Bengal, a series of popular lectures on
various topics of Indological interest. We give below the
names of the lectures with the titles of their lectures: Kalidas
Nag (India and Latin America—2 lectures), Ajit K. Mukherji
Bengal and Burma), Batakrishna Ghosh (Aryan Invasion of
India—2 lectures), Kunjagovinda Goswami (Indus Civilisation),
Sarasi K. Sarswati (Ancient Bengal—2 lectures), Swami
Sadananda (Journeys to Annam, Tonkin, Hong Kong and
Sumatra—-3 lectures) and Suniti Kumar Chatterji (My Journey

to Burma—2 lectures).
* # * w *

Dr. R. C. Majumdar, one of the atcive members of our
Society has just brought out a work called Suvarnadvipa,
Part I, (Pp. i-xviiit+t436+two maps) forming the second
volume of his series bearing the title ‘Ancient Indian Colonies
in the Far East’. The first part deals with the political history
and the system of administration in Suvarnadvipa (Malay
Peninsula and Malay Archipelago). The second part dealing
with law, society, art, religion, literature and economic condi-
tions is expected to be out before the end of 1937. Two
other volumes—Vol. III (also in two parts) dealing with
Cambodia and Siam and. Vol. IV (giving a comprehensive
review of Ancient Indian Colonies, in the Far East}—will
complete the series,

During the winter of 1935.36, Dr. H, G. Quaritch Wales
on behalf of the Greater-Indian Reseatch Committee under-

- took an. archeological expedition td the ancient site of Sri
Deva in Siam which was first discovered by Prince Damrong
“Rajanubhav. The main’ discoveries of this expedition con-

sist off a plan of the city (“a. main city about a mile square

on the easern side of which has been ‘built a subsidiary city
SOE considerably greater area’ ), of a nearly complete temple
=e ‘with a sikhara 4 ower Et "Temple I"), of four Indian sculptures

fig on Bhamara temple and a Sanskrit

NOTES 65

Mscripion apparently belonging to the early sixth century
and written in the script of Vengi.

The Greater India Society has received and accepted the
Invitation to send a delegate to the Eighth International Con-
gress of Historical Sciences to be held at Zurich i in 1 August-
September 1938.

a * a * **

The Joint-Secretary of the Society, Dr. Kalidas Nag has
been deputed by the Calcutta University to act for a term as
a visiting professor of Fine Arts at the Honolulu University,
Hawaii Islands. Dr. Nag left India to join his new
appointment in January 1937.

* % * * +

The opening ceremony of the Viéva-Bharati Chinese
Hall was celebrated at Santiniketan on the [4th April 1937.
The. Hall is the gift. of a Chinese learned Society which
has been formed to strengthen the ‘bonds of cultural
association between China and India. It is. meant to—
serve as a centre of Sino-Tibetan and Buddhist study under.
the auspices of the Viéva-Bharati. i

eck E See eS Be

NOTICES OF BOOKS

The Story of the Stupa:By A. H. Longhurst, Ceylon
Government Press, Colombo, 1936, 54 pp. .—43 plates.

The practice of burial is the most primitive mode
of disposing of the dead among almost all early peoples
of the world. The hole in which the body lay buried
was covered with heaps of earth or in some cases
enormous piles of heavy stones,—the motive under-

lying this act being at first to confine the ghost or

corpse “who could not easily move so large a superin-
cumbent mass of matter’. Thus, originally, as Frazer
has shown, various tribes of primitive men paid great
attention to the dead, not so much from affection, as

from selfish terror of the departed ones troubling: their

living relations. In course of time, this mode of disposal.
of the dead gave place. among many nations to the practice »
of burning the bodies, of burying the ashes and burnt
bones and of raising tumuli over them. Now the attitude

‘towards the remains of the dead underwent ‘considerable

change and these burial mounds were more in the way of
loving memorials to the dear departed. These funeral

‘tumuli, again, came to play a very considerable part in the

origin and development of the architectural art of various

ancient nations of the world.:

The earliest references in Indian literature to the

- manner in which the” ‘corpses were disposed of throw a
2 flood of light on. this: point. In the Vedic age, when the
oe ‘civilisation had~ made marked. progress in India, both
 Syurial: and’ cremation © as. well | as partial burial (i.e., the
‘interment of. ‘the: burnt bones and ashes.) were in vogue.

epee 12 —_ 13 of the t h hymna of the | enth ane of
a handy form.

= induced om

NOTICES OF BOOKS 67

su tisthatu sahasram mita upa hi Srayam tam|te grhdaso
ghrtascuto bhavamtu visvahasmai $aranah samivatra ||/2]|
Utte stabhndmi. prthivim toat parimam logam nidadhan
mo aham rivam etém sthiindm pitaro dharayamtu tetra
Yamah sédand te minotz |{13||

Not only is the construction of these funeral tumuli
referred to in these verses (ucchrmcamana prthvi su
tisthatu or Utte stabhnaémi prthivim), but also a_ clear
reference is to be found here to the placing of clods of
earth (loga) and long poles (wooden ones—sthind) over
the dead (tvat parimam logam nidadhan mo aham rivam
and etém sthiinam pitaro dhdraymtu). The ‘house of clay’
is once mentioned asthe abode of the dead (R. V., VII,
89,1, Mosu varuna mrnmayam grham rajannaham gamam)
The discovery of burnt bones and ashes as well as partially
destroyed long wooden poles inserted in an erect position
just in the centre of certain mounds excavated by Theodore
Bloch at Lauriya Ied him to identify them as Vedic
Smagana mounds. What is of importance here is that
in these raised tumulias well as the wooden pillars inside, '
we find the prototype of the andas and yastis of the stipas
of the subsequent period. An elaboration in the develop- _
ment of these funeral structures is alluded to in the late ©
Vedic literature (cf., the evidence of. the Satapatha
other Brahmanas where different types: of these 8 are me:
ed—daiva and asura). to

The subsequent history of the oeskouniank oe ‘the stip
architecture in India as well as Indonesia has beén traced in
détail by Mr. A. H. Longhurst, ‘(late Superintendent
Archaeological Survey, India, and.at present Archaeological
Commissioner, Ceylon,) in the well-written brochure under _
natice—‘The Story of the Stipa.” He has brought together
much useful information with regard. to these i
hed has nok < nly incorpo

vations:
68 NOTICES OF BOOKS

portance has been given by the author to the umbrella-
motif as a symbol of religious sovereignty which topic
he treats at some length in the first chapter of his book.
This has certainly been done by him not without sufficient
reason; for he has taken great pains to demonstrate in the
three subsequent chapters entitled ‘“The evolution of the
stiipa,’’ ‘Kerala Architecture” and “Himalayan Architec-
ture,’’ the indebtedness of the different types of Indian and
Indonesian temple architecture not merely to the stiipa, but
especially to the crowning finial over it viz,. the C hatravali
or the ‘‘tee’’ (a curiously anglicised form of the Burmese
word hii). The staff which contained the successive chatras
(1,3,7,9 or more in number) over it and which was known
as Yatthi (Yasti-cf. the Sui Vihar Kharosthi inscription
which records the yatthi-pratithanam ceremony in honour.
of a Buddhist friar Nagadata by name in the IIth year of
Kaniska) is, as we have already seen, based on the Vedic
sthiind mentioned above- Again, the vivid description of
the storeyed stiipa with a’ superstructure of  gilt-copper
discs arranged in tires built by Kaniska over the relics of
the Buddha as given in the Chinese records, when compared
with the extant shrines of mediaeval and modern times in
India proper and especially in countries outside India like
Nepal, Burma, Siam, China and Japan, fully illustrates the
mature of the influence which was exercised by the
structural stipas of the early centuries of the Christian era
on these subsequent | architectural specimens. It may be
remarked _ ‘here that this’ influence of the chatravali
especially on the few extant temples of the Gupta period
mainly connected with. the Brahmanical cult is certainly
; “nots so very. well-marked. The extant temples of Bhitargaon
es (brick, .) Tigowa, Bhimars, and Deogarh {all the last three
x in stone) o. not presuppose the existence of a succession of
re . So, the. author’ s general remark “that
. ‘the temples ‘of India were storeyed
_ pagodas of ‘China
e is o doubt

NOTICES OF BOOKS té«é

that such wooden structures were current in India of the
Gupta period; for does not Fa Hian mention that in India
“cars looked like pagodas’? But that there were other
types built of more permanent materials existing in India at
this age is clearly proved by the few extant remains
mentioned above. :

lt will be impossible to note the various interesting
points raised by the author in connection with the develop-
ment of his theme in the short space at our disposal. The
learned author has certainly thrown much fresh light on the
whole question of the evolution of the temple architecture
in India from these early funeral monuments—a_ theory
already advocated by previous writers. Credit is certainly
due to him for his eleborate treatment of this complex
theme.

The photographs illustrating the various subjects in his
book are well reproduced and for this credit is to be given
to the Survey Department, Colombo. A short index
appended to the volume would have been of use to the
students. pe

“eee dt Nath Banerjea, M. A.

Oudheidkundige vondsten in Padang. Lawas (Midd
Tapanoeli).. By F. M. Schnitger.. Reprinted : from. Elsevie
Geillustreerd Maandschrift, XU, No. 5. avi

In June and Septemb r-October, 1935, and again in April, — i
1936 Dr. F. M. Schnitger undertook. three archaeological :
explorations into the interior of Tapanoeli, called Padang
Lawas. The results of the first two tours along with a réstuné -

_ of earlier researches on their subject-matter have now, been
published with the. author's comments, a sketch n
photographic reproductions of. some. architec d
tural remains of excellent work: anship 1
last tour was published by the s

Courant of the Sth an: |
SR ieee or eS

70 NOTICES OF BOOKS

In view of the geographical importance of Sumatra in the
ancient world, the obscurity of its history in the Hindu-
Javanese period and the great réle played by the Sailendra
(and) Srivijaya monarchs in the island, an archaeological
discovery that tends to increase our knowledge of the place
is bound to engage our serious attention.

~The antiquities of Padang Lawas are eee ees dis-
tributed over a region which is mainly washed by the upper
course of the Bauman, by its branch the Panei and by some
tributaries of these two rivers. Mr. Schnitger says that these
antiquities principally belong to the 12th-13th centuries, al-
though older and younger vestiges are also present. In assert-
ing that these ruins partly originate from the great kingdom
Panei “‘which is mentioned for the first time in the Chinese
annals of the sixth century as Puni or Poli’ (p. 289), Mr. S.
seems to ignore the fact that the same annals locate P’o-li “‘in |
the sea, to the South-East of Canton,’” that its later by-form.
is Ma-li which is formally assured to be in the East of Ho-ling
(= Kaling=the kingdom of Central Java). Thus there are
strong reasons for identifying P’o-li with Bali. Similarly Pu-
ni, far from being identified with P’ o-li, is now considered to
lie on the west coast of Borneo. |

Mr. S. remarks that the temples seen by him were sparsely -
ornamented and scarcely furnished with reliefs. At
Sangkilon, Mr. S, made an important ‘discovery, viz., a gold-
plate inscription with 8 lines of writing in the 12th century

- seript, showing that. -Yamari was worshipped there.
Sangkilon was consequently the centre of a gruesome demon-
“cult. - At Pamutung Mr. S. discovered from a temple the
: beautiful image of a. woman which he considers to be the
- portrait. of the. royal foundress of the temple. ‘As the image

ee shows, she belonged to the Bhairava-sect.. The greatest image

ais the ‘portrait. ‘of: ne Adityavarman, a staunch
ce x. 8. es occasion to

NOTICES OF BOOKS 7}

The writer also reports an encounter with a metal-loving
boorish raja, which shows the difficulties of archaeological
exploration in Sumatra. In September 1935, Mr. S. found a
Saiva-altar at Bara, in the midst of the thoroughly Buddhistic
Padang Lawas. Some Buddhistic remains, stiipas for
example, were found in Tapanoeli. _

Although all the images and temples cannot be properly
dated, they give us a fair picture of the religious practices in
vogue in those regions. If some inscription is discovered
connected with these relics, they will be of immense value
to the historian. | |

H. B. SARKAR

Hindoe-OQudheden aan de Batang Hari. By F. M.
Schnitger, Leiden, 1936. 2

This work embodies the result of archaeological explora-
tions cartied out by the author in March 1936, at Muara
Jambi. He successively describes the ruins of Astano, the
Candis of Gumpung and Tinggi, then Gedong | and Gumung
Perak. By Muara Jambi flows the Sungei Malayu, which re-
calls the famous Malayu that was identified by Rouffaer with
Jambi. Dr, Schnitger favours the identification of Malayu
with Muara Jambi (ibid., PP. 4-6) and perhaps on. sounder .
grounds. In the following pages (pp. 5-6), the author des- ©
ieee some ineiaes whieh are antl: Buddhistic. We pe

plate) of fae dota ‘tue that was diestred: in. 1906. a
Padang Roco to the west of Sungei Langsat. In the follow-
ing pages the author treads familiar ground, but we should
note that he describes the demon-figure of Jago (p. 219) as -
a Bhairaya-representation of King’ Adityavarman. The author —

thinks that some of the Ganega-images of Java may. ref x to :
coset kings wae had Sree Bhairava-cos ecr:

¥) NOTICES OF BOOKS

Angkola- en Mandailing-Batakasch — Nederlandsch
Woordenboek. By H. J. Eggink. Verhandelingen van het
Koninklijk Batavicasnh Genootschap van kunsten en Weten-
schappen, dl. LXXH, fifth part, 1936.

Mr. Eggink was for more than thirty years a Protestant
missionary in Angkola and was therefore in a good position
to collect materials for an Angkola and Mandailing-Batak
Dictionary. In the preparation of the present work, Mr.
Eggink thankfully recognises the help he received from pre-
vious workers in a cognate field, Messrs. v.d. Tuuk. C.A.,
von Ophuijsen, St. Pangoerabaan and others, but he has
used laudable discretion in the selection of words. The work
is not comprehensive in the true sense of the term, but the
publication of this book will undoubtedly facilitate our study
of Angkola-Mandailing-Batak texts. It is unfortunate that

in some cases the word-roots have not been made the basis

for arrangement of words, with the result that the reader has

to search various possible places. But in the present state of

our knowledge of the languages of the Archipelago and in
view of the fact that Indonesian philology has hardly emerg-
ed out of its infancy, there is room for differences of opinion
regarding prefixes and primary roots, etc. : what is considered
to be a prefix may somewhere form the initial letter of a
root. But such cases are few in number and consequently the
reader will not be frequently disturbed. Any way, we are

very thankful to the author for giving us an authoritative
eentle 3 in sh ted of Path he Nanellling Rat languages.

5 eee ee 7 EH. B; SARKAR
Het : Oudjavaansone i Bhismaparwa By J. Gonda,

NOTICES OF BOOKS ~ 73

slation, etc., by Dr. Juynboll and it is therefore gratifying to
find that Dr, Gonda supplies us with the much-needed critical
edition of the Old-Javanese Bhismaparva. It is precisely this
book which contains an Old-Javanese version of the Skt.
Bhagavadgita, already discussed by Dr. Gonda in TBG., 75,
pp. 36-82. oe
In the construction of i text Dr. G. mainly used 6 MSS.

and consulted a few others principally dating from the last
century. He has also promised to offer us a very succinct

- comparison of the whole text with parallel-texts in Skt. As —

the critical edition of the Skt. text has not yet been published
it can not be determined which recension the Javanese text
follows. But the publication of the Javanese text will un-
doubtedly be of use to the future redactor of the Skt. text,
because the Javanese text (containing Skt. Slokas) was certain-
ly composed towards the close of the tenth century (Text, p.
9) and would therefore be much earlier than many Skt. MSS.

on Bhigma®. While we say that Dr. Gonda has executed an

present task conscientiously well, we remain very much
interested to see how he handles his promised work. :
H. Bo Sarkar

Oudheidkundige | Vondsten in ~ Palembang. By F.M. —
Schnitger; Bijl. C, with 13 plates. and sketches, published by :
E. J. Brill, Leiden, 1936. Amin i in ee

~ In pp. 1-2) of this work the sithat ver al the ground-
plan of six temples at Geding Sura in ‘the East of Palembang. ewes |
Of these the temple. No. VI. yielded a Hindu image. The
author next (pp. 5-6) describes some relics of Sumatran Saivism.
The following two pages are devoted to the study of different
architectural styles that were current in the Hindu-Sumatran
period. , : ;

14 NOTICES OF BOOKS
In this admirable book an attempt has been made to
present the history of Ceylon from the earliest times to the
end of the fifteenth century when the Portuguese, the Dutch
and the British occupied different parts of Ceylon and thus
indirectly brought about the modern history of that island.
In the foreword Professor Wilhelm. Geiger briefly discusses
the authenticity of the sources of the early history of Ceylon.
The book contains five chapters, viz., I. The early settlers
and the introduction of Buddhism, I]. The ancient period,
I. The early mediaeval period, IV. The Polonnaruva
period and V. The decline of the Sinhalese kingdom. In
the first chapter the author describes the physical features of
Ceylon and the influence which they have exercised on the
current of Ceylonese history. This is followed by an ac-
count of the Vaddas (the earliest settlers of Ceylon) of the
Aryan and Dravidian intrusion into Ceylon, of the rise of
Buddhism in India, of the advent of Buddhism into Ceylon
and its influence. In'the second chapter, which deals with the
ancient ‘period; (c. 247 B.C. 362 A.D), the author rightly
points out that the political history of Ceylon really. begins
with the reign of Devanampiya Tissa {c. 247-207 B.C), the
contemporary of Agoka. Here the author. deals not only
with the political history of the period but also with its ad-
‘ministrative, economical, religious, literary and artistic con-
ditions. In the third chapter the author traces the political
history from the reign of Kit Siri Mevan (Kirti Sti Meghavarna)
who ascended the throne in ALD. 362 and who was a con-
_ temporary of the great Indian ruler Samudragupta till the
Colian conquest - of Ceylon in 1017 A.D. in-the reign of
' Mthindu -V. The author: ee traces the administrative,
and” ‘other conditions ” “ee the period. - In the fourth
chapter" is: traced the ‘politcal history “Ok Ceylon from
ua oe in. Aot7 AD. to ee ou, of

a

mM aoa maa gs "Sees

NOTICES OF BOOKS 75

bahu VIH (1418-1518 A.D.) in whose reign the Portuguese
arrived in Ceylon. Besides the political history an account
of the religious, literary and artistic activities has also been
given,

While this book presents a “ biek account, of the early
history of Ceylon, it serves as an excellent introduction to the
subject. There are some sections in, this work which deserve
to be presented im an enlarged form. Firstly, the author has
inserted a plate facing p. 16 showing the development of the
must be some stages in the development of the Sinhalese |
script between, the sections [V and V otherwise it cannot -
be explained how the script of the section V is evolved out
of the script of the section IV. Further the vowels, conso-
nants, medial vowels, conjunct consonants should have been
systematically and chronologically classified in order to show
the development of the Sinhalese. script in the true perspec-
tive. Secondly, it has been a common belief that only
Buddhism had penetrated into Ceylon. The author has done
‘excellent service by shattering this idea and by proving that
not only Buddhism but also Hinduism penetrated into Ceylon
in ancient times. Regarding the cause of the spread of
Sanskrit in Ceylon the author rightly observes. (Ibid. PP.
60-61}: “‘One of the chief results of the sptead of Mahayana
Buddhism wag the impetus it gave to the study of Sanskrit, in
which language its scriptures _ were. written. +The. spread of
Sanskrit in Ceylon at this. time: ‘was. due to another cause.

Hinduism, a developed. form: a Brahmanism that existed i
before the rise of Buddhism, ‘began t to influence Ceylon : at this

time as a result of its revival in India under the Guptai kings;
and the worship of Hindu gods and the practice of Hindu
rites were adopted by many people. _ The image of the

Hindu god Vignu, which ‘is now: at “the: Mahadevale in

non. is said to have been brought to Dondra i in A. Dp.

89, 108. It would be well
graph on this subject at

- Inspite
this: book, % ds s has bee nm

76 NOTICES OF BOOKS

But there are some statements in, this book, which appear
to be open to criticism.

P. 16:—“The Brahmi script is the parent of
all modern Indian. alphabets, including Tamil. It is
similar to the type of Phoenician writing of the ninth century
B.C, found carved on a stone in Palestine. The Sinhalese
alphabet, therefore, like all modern European alphabets, has
to be traced ultimately to a Semitic origin or to some other
script from which Semitic writing was also derived. Further
evidence of this connection is to be seen in some of the
earliest Sinhalese inscriptions which are written like Arabic
from right to left.’ It should be pointed out here that the
theory of the Semitic origin of the Brahmi script has been °
greatly undermined by the discovery of the inscribed seals
of the Indus Valley age. It is true that the Indus Valley
script has not: yet been deciphered, still when the extreme

~ antiquity of the Indus Valley script is admitted by alk scholars,

the Soe of the origin of the Brahmi script must remain
unsolved. © Further the writing from right to left in some
Sinhalese inscriptions might be due to some cause other than
that indicated by the author because we have a similar
example of the writing from right to left on an Evan coin in
the inscription dhamapdlasa in the Brahmi script of the 4th
century B.C. (Bihler—Indische Palaeographie, p. 32). P. 94 :——
“In the Jetavanarama Vihara in Polonnaruva there are several
fresco paintings, some of which depict certain birth-stories of

the ‘Buddha, such asthe Sasajataka."" The author has

not ‘given: any “evidence to show that tHese are fresco
paintings and unless this fact is proved, the term “fresco” should

7 not be used. (Regarding this point see the present reviewer's

dian Culture, Vol! Il, p. 825, Vol. TH, pp. 397, 550).

these defects, which j ‘@re not of a- major character

3 indicated ee is an a
BOOKS. RECEIVED

The Greater India Society aelnowledees with thanks the
receipt of the following books, periodicals, reports,
pamphlets ete., during the last six months :—

Periodicals

Adyar Eibeeny Bulletin, (Brahiia- Vidya, Vol. I, Part
I, Madras: 1937, .
. Annals of the Bhandarkar Oriental Reseerch Institute,
Vol. XVII, No. IV, Poona 1936.
Annual Report of the Varendra Reséarch Society |
— (1935-36), Rajshahi 1937. | ag
Bijdragen tot de Taal-, Land- éh Volkenkundeé van Pas
Nederlandsch-Indié, deel. 94, derde afl, 'sGraven- iy elite
hage 1936, - Pte
“ Buddha-Piabha, Wor: IV, No" L, Batnbay 1937.
Bulletin de ?Ecole Fraricaise d Extréme- Orient, ai
XXXV, Facs. 2 Hanoi 1936, a
Bulletin of the School of Oriental Studies, Vol. ‘vin,
Pt. 1; 2 and 3; and 4, London 193637. ea at
Indian Historical Quarter, Vol. Xi} lo
“Calcutta” 1936. ES el

Journal af dled Faw, “y
Madras 1936. |

Karnataka Historical Review, Vol. 1, ‘Nes. | | and 2,
Dharwar 1936.

Ostastatioche
Berlin 1936.

ARETE i DT in dag mae

7. 1g? a BooKS RECEIVED

Books Abticles etc.

BUTLER, NicHoLas Murray, Ansnat Report (1936) of the
Carnegie Endowment jor International Peace, New
York 1937,
CARPANI, E. G., ‘La Mandakya-Upanisad, Bologna 1936.
Shea V djasaneyi-Samhita, Bolonga 1936
foe ales : Nircaéna, Bologna 1936, | ek
ps % : Quatiro Note sul Krishnaismo, Bologna 1936. ae
Pats a ‘Coomaraswamy, A.K., A Note on the Agvamedha, Pragne bs
fi Eccink, H. G., Angkola- en Mandailing. Betakvech, Neder-
_ landsch Woordenboek Bandoeng 1936.
en Family of Nations (Armistice Day addresses arranged by he
Hee Sites Carnegie. Endowment for International » Peace), New es
Se OPEL eo York: 1936,
aoe Gonna, J. Het Oudjavaansche Bhigmaparwa, Bandoeng 1936.
-Korrers, ‘WiLHELM, Die Indo-Germanen- und G are.

5 " Prajai-Paramita. Guna-Senicaya-Gath Ld, 3
nT text) Bi ibliciliege Baldhi XXIX,

 bbsbecoss Sa Ramana, Rises 1936.
a F. ML, Hindoe-Oudheden aan Belong Hari; Bijl..
A, Leiden 1936.
| Oudhiedkundige Vondsten in . Padang Lawes, aden 1936.
O pores ke ne :
oe vb aa

tick are ‘Si i Boa. Logon

Notice to Subscribers

Subscribers are kindly asked fis note that their subscrip-
tions to the Journal for the current year expire with
the present issue. It is earnestly requested that the sub-
scriptions (Rs. 4-8. or 8s.-6d., inclusive of postage) for the
next year may be sent fo the Manager on or before the 3 i st
December next. cee

“M anager, Eredter India Society
(21, Badar Bagan Row, ie
Ps oO. Amherst Street, :
"1! Caleutias ©

Sere gp

THE JOURNAL

OF THE

GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

VoL TV - JULY: 1937 No: 2

retaeraonens
perenreece

Contributions from the Mahavamsa to our
knowledge of the Mediaeval Culture

of Ceylon.
By Dr. Wilhelm Geiger.

(Continued fier JGIS., Vol. IH, No. 2)
HI
Il. THE KING AND THE ROYAL COURT

4.: The a aeral of a deceased King

31. The corpses ‘of deceased kings! were: always dis-
posed of by burning. ‘Among people of the lower classes
interment seems to have been the rule as still in modern
times. In the Hatthavanagalla temple King Parakkamabahu II
(1236-71) erected a superb monument (cetiya) on the spot
where the body of his zayal Father had been laid down on
thé pyre (Mhos. 85. 76).

The funeral ceremony ‘was performed by the successor. .:
When* ‘Manabharana was ‘deceased, his two brothers per.
formed the funeral rites for him (Rares m ani ima. vidhim,
63.1), - and the elder of them Kitts 3
cessor in ‘the pre vince o ckhir

megha’s death’ his is neph

SP DRI SECRETE TS

{
Hs
i

80 _ WILHELM GEIGER

court carried out the fire-burial (aggikiccarn, 67.89} of his
uncle in a manner worthy of himself and was from that day
ruler of the province.

Even such princes as had forcibly occupied the throne
used to perform the obsequies of the king, if they had caused
his death. When in the year 496 A. C. Kassapa in the battle
against his brother Moggallana saw that his soldiers were
yielding, he cut his own throat. Mogegallana, glad at his
brother’s death~-because he had by his suicide spared him
the necessity of meting out justice himself for Kassapa’s
parricide—carried out the ceremonies of burning the king’s
corpse in the usual manner (katvalahanakiccam, 39.28.
After that he entered the capital.

32. We see from this example that the burning of the
predecessor's corpse was not only an act of piety, but also a
symbolic act. The new sovereign wished to make it mani-
fest to the people that he was the legitimate successor of the

deceased king and had ascended the throne by his own

right. We now understand how after Vijayabahu’s death in

_ the year 1114 his son and heir-presumptive Vikkamabahu,

then absent from the capital and residing in Rohana, regret- -
ted that he had no chance of paying his father the last
honours (antima-sakka@ram vidhatum, 61.8). By this act he
could have asserted his right of succession. He hastened to
Pulatthinagara and met on the way his three cousins who
wished to secure the throne to their own family. He defeated
his rivals and took possession of the capital and of the royal

_ power which he maintained up to his death.

An account contained in the chronicle 50.21 sq. is of

peculiar interest. During the reign of King Sena | (831-51)

a Pandu king invaded Ceylon. | The Yuvaraja Mahinda was

sent by Sena to drive him back, but being defeated

committed suicide. The soldiers cut off his head and

iets showed | it to the Pandu King. | When he saw it, he had
. Mahinda’ 8 8 corpse burnt ; and ave. orders for. ‘observance at

scribed by. the Pandus for
t] she wished to show :

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA a]

the Sihalas by his action that he was now himself the
yuvardja and heir-apparent of the Sinhalese kingdom.

5. Buddhism and Brahmanism at Court
33. The Sinhalese kings were all Buddhists. In modern

times only Rajasiha | (1581-93) was converted to Sivaism and
his conversion was followed by a severe persecution of the
Buddhist priests (Mhos. 93.4 sq.). Buddhism was also the
prevailing religion among the people of Ceylon. Brahma-
nism however had by no means lost the whole of its power
and influence. In the chronicle we hear much about the
conflicts between the different Buddhist sects during the
medizeval period, but nothing about the conflicts between
Buddhism and Hinduism. Among the ruins of Polonnaruva
there are the remnants of several Hindu temples, both of
Visnu and Siva. | wd ee

Some of the Sinhalese kings are eapecially praised as sup-
porters of the samanas (bhikkhus) as well as of the brah-
manas. Thus we have in the 8th century King Kassapa III
(Mhos. 48.23), in the 9th century Sena I (50.5) and Sena II
(51.65 sq.), in the 12th century Manabharana (dénam uldram
samana-bréhmandnam paddpayi, 62.64) and: in 67.94 we
hear that Parakkamabahu when he had taken the reins of
government after his uncle's death sent an abundant gift of
money to the samanas and the brahmanas, | The. same King,
after his campaign in South India, gave orders for an alms“
giving to the brahmanas (77. 105), and he is said to have seen
to the restoration of devdlayas, i.e., sanctuaries for Hindu
deities as well as of Buddhist temples (79. 21-22, 76-81).
Parakkamabahu II (1236-71) is said to. have rebuilt the
famous temple of the god Visnu at Devanagarre now Dondra,
in the most splendid fashion (85.85 sq.). che

34, The most remarkable fact is the strict observance at |
court of the Brahmanical rites as they were ‘observed by. i
Indian kings. We know (cf. above 4 and 6) that the. Sinha- :
nand as. their ‘puro-

hita (house-priest or domestic chaplain)

and that he w was the a

82 WILHELM GEIGER

representative of the Brahmanical caste at the coronation
ceremony. This office is already mentioned in the old Maha-
vamsa 10.79, 34,24. The Brahman (dija, Skt. dvija) who
was one of the four envoys sent by Devanampiyatissa to the
court of King Asoka (I 1.20) was no doubt the house-priest.
Coming to medizeval times, we are told (62.21 $q., 28-9) that
the dreams seen by Virabahu (Manabharana) and his
consort were expounded by the Purohita and the soothsayers
who foretold that within a short time there would take place
the birth of a son bearing on him the marks of future
grandeur. The soothsayers (nemitta) were most probably
Brahmanas like the Purohita. After the birth of the son the
king charged them with the determination of the boy's
bodily marks, After carefully observing all the marks on his
hands and feet, they joyfully announced to the father that
the boy would become a great monarch, though there was |
an unfavourable constellation for the father himself. I may.
here refer to the Kautaliya Arthaédsira, 1.9, where it ie
expressly said that the purohita of an Indian a must be
skilful in reading portents. |

However not only the abhisoke int also many other

Brahmanical rites were observed by the Sinhalese kings.

Virababu (Manabharana) is said to have performed various
sacrifices which were held to be salutary by the house-
priests and other Brahmanas versed in the Veda (62.33),
For his new-born son (Parakkamabahu) he caused per-
formance of the birth-rites and other ceremonies according
to the rules laid down in the Veda .(vede vutta-vidhanena

jatakammadikam vidhim, 62, 45), In the Indian ritual-

literature four ceremonies are enumerated, which belong to
‘the birth-rites = Gyusya, giving of life, medhajanana, giving
of intelligence, stanapratidhana, giving of the breast, and
naémakarana, © giving of jae name pWrlleforondt, Ritual-

a estes p. 45). -

eSisivalinbbe: had the ‘ceremony. oe the first dkensing 0 of the

CONTRIBUTIONS. FROM THE MAHAVAMSA &3

This ceremony corresponds to the ciiddkarana rite of the
Grhya-sitras (Hillebrandt, Lc., p- 49). Later on, when the
same prince was residing at Kittisirimegha’s court int
Dakkhinadesa, this King ordered his Sendpati to prepare
for the prince the ceremony of investiture with the sacred
thread (upanayana, 64.13), and the ceremony was carried
out in the most splendid manner by Brahmanas well- versed
in the Veda. 7 |

We may assume that the alserrance by the. Sinhalese
rulers of Brahmanical rites was not confined to the cere-
monies mentioned occasionally in the. Chronicle, but ex~
tended to other rites also, perhaps to all that are prescribed
in the Grhya-siitras. Furthermore we must point out that the
compilers of the Mahdvamsa to whom we are indebted: for
the notices concerning the fact, were not Brahmanas, but
Buddhist priests. Those notices, therefore, clearly display
the tolerant and conservative character of the Buddhism
which refrains from doing away with old manners and
customs in full accord with the admirable mental attitude
common in such questions to the Indian people in general.

35, We will understand that the relations of the SiiKalead
kings with Buddhism and Buddhist priests had a somewhat
different character from those with Hinduism and the
Brahmanas. The latter were ceremonial and official, - the.
former more intimate: and. personal. The. purohita had .to
perform the sacred rites, but he was no counsellor in
political or religious questions. — This was often the duty. of
the most distinguished bhikkhus who co-operated with the
royal dignitaries. Vijayabahu 1 (12th century) granted the
position of an upardja after Virabahu’s » death to Jayabahu
in conformity with the counsel of the bhikkhus (Mhvs.
60.87). After Vijayabahu’ Fy demise. his younger sister met

the ministers in order to deliberate as to how the. succession...

to the throne could be secured to her own family. To. ‘this =
meeting the Buddhist priests” of. ‘the. district (yate ayo
dyatanavasino, 61.1) were also invited. - dn a similar manner

already in the Ist: century: B.C after ths: death of Seceineiese

84 , WILHELM GEIGER

the ministers with the consent of the fraternity of the
bhikkhus consecrated Thilathana as king (33.18).
Parakkamabahu [I] (1236-71) summoned the bhikkhus and
asked them which of his sons might be worthy of the
throne. The priests designated his eldest son Vijayabahu
as the most prominent of them and the king made over the
burden of government into his hands (87.39 sq.).
According to 76.73 sq. it was the mediation of the
bhikkhus by which the war between Parakkamabahu and
the King of Ramajfifia was brought to an end (cf.29), The
Chronicle says that the Ramanas being in despair after the
victory of the Sinhalese army, sent messengers to the
bhikkhus in Lank& and entreated them to appease
Parakkamabahu’s anger. .

It was a matter of course that the bhikkhus were the
advisers of the king in spiritual affairs. Aggabodhi | (6th
century) is said to have kept piously to the instruction of a

~bhikkhu named Dathasiva (42-22). In a very curious

_ passage (57.38 sq.) we are informed that the sovereigns of

Lanka in protecting the Order and:the people used to act
according to the advice of a bhikkhu who held the position
of a premier counsellor (miilatthdna) and whose appoint-
ment had to be confirmed by a divine oracle obtained in a
night he had to spend in a small sanctuary (devapalli).

Buddhism seems to be interwoven here with popular ideas

and superstitions.

36. The connection of the royal bantily with the most
prominent among the bhikkhus seems to have been
intimate. The education of the princes, as we see from the
manifold subjects they had to learn (cf. 11), was at least in
part ‘entrusted to’ bhikkhus, but probably also to Brahmanas

and laymen. The spiritual teacher of Prince Parakkamaba-

_. hu, afterwards King Parakkamabahu: Il, was Samgharakkhita,
i the head of the Buddhist community in’ the second. half
ofthe. 13th century (Mhos. 81. 76-7). Nay, members of | the

royal family sometimes themselves entered t the Order. Some
corded i ! a the Chronicle.

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA | 85

Thus Mattabhaya, the younger son of King Devanampiya-
tissa, and even Anula, the consort of the sub-king
Mahanaga, put on the yellow robe (17.57-8, 19,65).
Kutakannatissa in the Ist century A.C. had been a member
of the Order ere he ascended the throne, and his mother
entered it, when he was king, and the son founded a
nunnery to her (34.28-9, 35-6). No such event is mentioned
in the medizval era. We only hear that King Silakala
(524-37) had lived in his youth as novice in the Bodhimanda ©
monastery in India. He belonged, however, not to the
royal family, but to the Lambakanna clan (39.44-7) which
was a branch of it. But we are not justified from an
argumentum ex silentio to draw the conclusion that the
custom had ceased during that period, for even at the
beginning of the [7th century Sendratana, the younger
brother of King Vimaladhammasuriya, is said to have been
a priest (94.22), but the King made him leave the Order and
placed the burden of government on him. :

The bhikkhus were often acting as mediators when thane
was any conflict within the royal family. Already in ancient
times we hear that Dutthagamani’s. brother Tissa, when
conquered in battle, went to Mahagama with the thera
Godhagatta who succeeded in reconciling the King with his
brother (24.49 sq.). The fraternal war was then brought to
a close, In the 9th century, when Sena IL was reigning, the
sub-king Mahinda committed an. offence in the women’ 8
apartment and fled to Malaya for fear of the King. But he
understood how to appease his mind by prudent conduct.
Accompanied by bhikkhus he sought out the King and was
re-instated by him, no doubt through the mediation of the
priests (51.8, 13-4). In.a similar manner the bhikkhus
brought about the reconciliation of King Kassapa IV. (896-
913) with Prince Mahinda who by his cruelty. had provoked
a rebellion of the people of. Rohana (52. 9). e The. long and
bloody contest between King. Gajabah and his great ‘rival

Parakkamabahu was brought to an- end by: the - intermediary tah

of bs bhikkhus seg ash i Ee :

" Being ; in a eS eiee. position : axe

: us money. (92.

86 WILHELM GEIGER

the King sent to the Community the message: ‘I see for
myself no protection save with the venerable brethren; let
them out of pity free me from my sorrow’. The bhikkhus
sought out Parakkamabahu and obtained his mercy for the
King.

Sometimes also conflicts arose between the royal house
and bhikkhus, a very serious instance occurring during the
reign of Udaya III (931-7). The two princes Sena and
Udaya had broken the inviolability of the monasteries of a
group of ascetics near Anuradhapura by killing people who
had taken shelter there after committing some crime.
Indignant at that deed the ascetics left their domicile and
betook themselves to the province of Rohana. Thereupon
the troops and the people became rebellious, and the trou-
bles came to an end only after the Princes and the King
had stooped to obtain the pardon of the bhikkhus (53.14-27).

37. The boons granted by the kings to the Buddhist
community were innumerable. In the description of the
kinge’s reign the chroniclers never omit to enumerate the
meritorious deeds (pufifiani) performed by the ruler for the
welfare of the laity and ‘clergy (loka-sésana): the construc-
tion of tanks in order-to enlarge the cultivable ground, and
with regard to the Buddhist community the foundation or
restoration of temples and other sacred buildings, the erec-
tion of topes and images, the offerings to sacred places, the
gift to the. bhikkhus of the four requisites (catupaccaya),i.e.,

, clothing, food, beds and medicaments, the grant to a

monastery. of landed property and so on. Sometimes the
enumeration is very. dry, consisting only of names and
figures. Parakkamabahu I, for instance, is said to have
built 99 topes; he also: had 73 relic-shrines and 6100 decayed
image-shrines restored, 476 diverse kinds of images made
and 91 bodhi trees. planted, etc., etc. (Mhvs. 79. 13 sq.)
Viravikkama who ascended the “ikegie: in the year 1542

es ee Presented to the: bhikkhus a an 2 offering of 2182 garments and

of 58700. pistes

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 87

We may infer from the dry form of such lists that they
were taken by the chroniclers from annals which were kept
in the court archives’ and perhaps also in some mona-~
steries, as in the Mahdvihara at Anuradhapura. The an-
nals probably contained certain important dates of the
king’s reign, an account of income and expenditure and
similar subjects, and also a list of the king’s pufifidni. In
the narration of Dutthagamani’s death this part of the an-
nals is called puftfi fiapotthaka (32. 25). The king being in the
last agonies ordered the ‘Book of Meritorious deeds’ to
be brought before him and bade the writer read it aloud.
On hearing the long list of puffani performed by him
during his reign the king was consoled and died in peace.

A peculiar kind of donation was an offering (of rice)
equal to the weight of the king’s own body (tula@bhara-
dana). Such an offering was recorded of Udaya II
(51. 128), of Vijayabahu ] (60. 21), and of Parakkamabahu I
(73. 11). More symbolical is the dedication to the com-.
munity or to a sanctuary of a royal attribute or even of the
kingdom and the royal dignity itself. Moggallana I (496-513)
presented the community with an. umbrella (chattena sam-
gham pijesi 39. 31, cf. above 23c). Aggabodhi II (601-611).
dedicated the Island of Lanka ‘and his own person to the
relic-shrine of the Thiparama. (42. 61). ’Parakkamabahu I.
(13th - century) offered the. whole . of the sixty-four royal: |:
ornaments, and even’ his iife: and children to. the Tooth’

Relic (82, 50; 85, 109 sq.; 86. 57)... By such a’ symbolical’ “a a :
dedication the kings wished to acknowledge the predom-

inance of the church over the worldly power.

38. The Sinhalese kings not only cared for the intrinsic
welfare and reputation of the bhikkhus but many of them. ;
were also eager for the propagation. of the Buddhist. faith,
for the moral integrity of the Order, and for the:purity o:
the doctrine. Megenllate I (oth ae invited preache “4

88 , WILHELM GEIGER

pitake tini vdcesi saddhim atthakathaya, Mhos. 4}. 58), and
the same was done by Vijayabahu 1 (60. 8). Manabharana
(Virabahu) is said to have the paritta texts recited over and
over by the community (62. 31). Nay, sometimes even
the kings themselves recited holy texts, as for instance,
Kassapa V (52. 49), and in a similar manner Sena IV (54. 4),
both of the 10th century, and again Vijayabahu I. Sinhalese
rulers also caused holy texts to be copied or fetched copies
from abroad, if they were lacking in the Island ; at their
instance literary works were pampered on religious sub-
ia (45. 3 ; 54. 35 ; 60. 22 : 81. 40 sq. ; 84, 26; 90. 37;

- 27). To king Paralhama baie IV (14th century) him-
a a work is ascribed, which has the title ‘‘Ceremonial of
the Tooth Relic’’ (dathadhatucharitta) and a translation of
the Jataka tales, both in the Sinhalese language (Sihalaya
niruttiya, 90. 78, 83). .

In order to keep the community in numerical complete-
ness the kings often enjoined on it the performance of the |
ecclesiastical ceremonies of pabbajja and upasampadd, the
admission of a novice and the. final ordination of priests
(78. 30; 81. 50; 84. 43; 87. 72; 89. 47). Vijayabahu |
even fetched © Brikphes, versed in the Tipitaka, from:
Ramifiiia, as in Ceylon the number of priests was not suffi-
cient to make the chapter full for those ceremonies (60°4.
sq.), and in the 13th century Parakkamabahu Il caused to
be brought over to the Island many learned bhikkhus from
Southern India, among them the Grand Thera Dhammakitti,
who was living in Tambaraitha. (849 sq.). The Siamese
and Burmese sects in modern Ceylon were also founded,
as we learn from their. names, by bhikkhus who had come
from abroad. )

In Ceylon. ihe Theravide: the earliest and most orthodox —
2 eect of Buddhism, was prevalent. Mahayanist doctrines were
introduced in the 3rd_ century A.C. by adherents of the
: Vaitulya school... Their seat was. the. Abhayagiri monastery
anh ‘north of Apurédhapura, that of Theravada in the Maha-

" oihaira 8 south’ es don ni the Ath century king’ Mahasena

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA «BY

took the side of the Vaitulyas and persecuted the Thera-
vadins. But the success of the heterodox school ‘was not
of long duration. Mahasena himself was forced to change
his ecclesiastical policy, and since then the Theravada main-
tained its prominent position in Ceylon up to the modern
times without much interruption. However the Mahayana
did not entirely disappear during the medizeval times’. The
two doctrines (ubhayasdsanam, 84.10), which were made
harmonious with the help of the Cola bhikkhus fetched to
Ceylon by Parakkamabahu If, were no doubt Theravada
and Mahayanism .

The permanent creeping into the church of heterodox
ideas is made manifest by the fact that the kings often con-
voked a council and caused a regulative act (dhamma-
kamma) to be performed in order to purify the holy doctrine.
It is remarkable that the initiative in such proceedings is
generally ascribed by the chronicler to the ruling monarch.
Already in the 5th century Moggallana | deserved well of the.
Buddhist doctrine by cleansing the community (39.57); in the ~
7th century the kings Mogegallana II] and Silimeghavanna
(44.46,74 sq.), and later on in the 9th and [0th centuries
Sena II and Kassapa V (51. 64; 52.44)did the same. The
church reform arranged by. king » -Parakkamabahu’ I and
carried out by the Grand Thera Mahakassapa is. “fully
described by the chronicler in two different chapters 72 and
78, and the latter account ends (78. 27) with the verse j a;

Evam suddhini ca sdmagainn sampadetoa * cirena ca
mahussahena so samgham Buddhakdle va vattayji.

“While thus within a short time achieving purification
and unity, he, king Parakkamabahu, with great pains esta-
blished again the cerinuinly as it had been in Buddha’ 8
time,”’

“2 Ch S. Paranavitana, Mehaginien in - Cealon, Coton in
Science, Section G, (Vel. a 35 ae Ro ann

90 _ WILHELM GEIGER
Il. THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE KINGDOM

6. The division of the country

39. In the earlier medizeval period up to the end of the
9th century the Sinhalese kingdom was divided into Utara-
desa, North Province, Pacina-. (or Pubba- or. Puratthima- )
desa, East Province, Pacchimadesa, West Province, and
Dakkhinadesa, South Province. The standpoint from which
this distinction is made was no doubt Anuradhapura, the
capital of the kingdom and the seat of the central govern-
ment at that time. Dakkhinadesa however did not comprise,
as one might believe, the whole southern half of the island,
but as Codrington® has shown, only its south- western
part. Itroughly covered the area of the present West- and
North-West Provinces with a portion of Sabaragamuva (cf.
above 15). The whole South-Eastern part of Ceylon formed
the separate province of Rohana (cf. 40).

From the 10th century onwards North-Ceylon is “Cilled

Rajarattha, Royal Province. ‘The name requires a few
explanatory words, for with rattha generally is meant
not a province but a smaller district. We must  there-
fore assume that the name came into use before the
word rattha had got its technical meaning in Ceylon,
or that it was orginally used for the district of the
capital with the royal residence and was afterwards
extended to the king’s whole dominion, North, West
and East provinces, in order to distinguish it in a
solemn manner from what became a domain of the
heir-apparent, i i. e., from Dakkhinadesa. The new name
of the royal dominion first occurs: in Mhos. 52. 4 at the time
of king Kassapa_ TV (896 - 913) in the looser form rdjino

‘rattha; then as. Rajarattha (Mhos. 55. 22) in the account
4 %s of. king Mahinda’ 8 reign at the end af the. 10th century. Tt

3 4 4 E Begiding ng topographical names ae occur in this chapter I

“refe oH. W. Codrington, Notes < on. i ae Topography: an the twelfth

62 24. and no. 78,
CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 91

fell out of use after the time of Parakkamabahu 1 who died
in the year 1186. The last passage in the chronicle where
Rajarattha is mentioned is 79.19. With 79.86 the first
and oldest continuation of the Mahavamsa compiled by
Dhammakitti come to its close. The older names of Uitara-
Pa&cina- and Pacchima- desa are never met with in the
Mahdvamsa since the designation Rajarattha came into use,
but that of Dakkhinadesa remains unaltered up to the end
of the 12th century.

In the second continuation of the chronicle Chs. 80 to 90,
102 approximately covering the period from the year 1200
up to 1350, instead of Rajarattha the name Patitth@rattha is
used and Maydrattha for Dakkhinadesa. The former name
is a translation into Pali of Sinhalese Pihitirata which
occurs in books and also in an inscription of the year 1200*.
It designates the North Province as the old ‘base’ or
‘support’ (Sk. pratistha) of the kingdom. Mayarattha is
purely Sinhalese in the first half of the compound and_
means District of the Mahadipada, i, e. of the Yuvaraja.
In the same part of the chronicle the united kingdom is also
called Tisihala, the tripartite Sihala.. We do not know how
long these three names were in use. They do not occur in

the latest part of the. Mahdoamsa. :

40. The name Rohana was never affected. bi all these
fluctuations. _ It is the same through the whole | chronicle
and even in the present time Ruhugu is. well known .to the
inhabitants of the province. According to tradition: (Mhvs.
22. 2) already in the third pre-Christian century king
Devanampiya Tissa’s younger brother Mahanaga founded a
separate kingdom in Rohana with Mahagama ashisresidence.
Since that time Rohana plays its own yole in the Sinhalese
history. [It was, toa certain. degree, always independent of
the central government in Anuradhapura and Pulatthinagara,
had its own Spike generally, members a pa revel family,

92 WILHELM GEIGER

Ceylon, the national reaction issued from Rohana.
Dutthagamani, the national hero of the Sinhalese people,
was a scion of the Rohana line. The Rohana rulers were
always aspiring to the royal dignity. About the middle of
the 12th century Rajarattha and Pulatthinagara were in
possession of the legitimate kings Vikkamabahu II and
Gajabahu, but Dakkhina-desa and Rohana were held by
the three brothers Manabharana, Kittisirimegha and
Sirivallabha, who were members of a younger female line.
Manabharana ruled over Dakkhinadesa, and the two
younger brothers shared Rohana between each other.
The residence of Kittisirimegha was Mahanagahula near the
mouth of the Valave-Ganga, that of Sirivallabha was
Uddhanadvara. After Manabharana’s death Kittisirimegha
took possession of Dakkhinadesa. Sirivallabha was now the
ruler of the whole of Rohana. Kittisirimegha was succeeded
by Parakkamabahu, the son of Manabharana, who also
conquered in war the Royal Province and united it with

Dakkhinadesa. But his supremacy was by no means undis-"

puted. Sirivallabha’s son, the minor Manabharana, was
competing with him for the royal dignity, and only after a
long and bloody war ‘with him after repeated campaigns
against the Rohana people Parakkamabahu was able
to join the whole kingdom under his umbrella.

Probably Rohana was more cultivated in the medizval
period than it is at. present ; it was crossed by roads, which
can partly be traced even now in the wilderness. Large
districts are covered by forests where the ruins of old tanks
show that in former times. there were rice-fields and rural
pees,

The” thotntain dintrict: in : Central Ceylon by which
: marae is bounded onthe east was called Malaya.
In Parakkamabahu(|)’ s time the country is described as a
wilderness (Mhvs. 70. 3sq.). ‘Tt was difficult to penetrate

ioe owing to the inaccessibility of many of the mountains and

on account of the danger from wild animals, shut off from
“with othe pastable sake on footpaths,

TE I TE SF?
z

ee

ER PT

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 93

offering all kinds of perils and dangerous for the deep
waters with man-eating crocodiles. Therefore Malaya was
often the shelter of persons who had committed a crime
and who wished to escape the punishment, or, during
political troubles, of those who had succumbed and were
living in fear of vengeance of their victorious rivals.

It is easily intelligible that in this country the boundaries
between Rajarattha, Dakkhinadesa and Rohana were un-
certain and floating. The king may have formally laid
claim to the supremacy but the actual power was in the
hands of local chiefs: This becomes evident from the
description of Parakkamabahu’s campaigns in Dumbara
and the adjoining Malaya districts E. and N. E. of the
present town of Kandy. He had resolved to occupy
Malaya, no doubt, in order to prevent an attack from the
rear’ and to have a sure base for the intended attack on
Rajarattha itself. So much is certain that he never con-
sidered those districts to be part of Rajarattha. .When he

had taken possession of them he returned to his residence

and spent some time there in rest and sport. Warlike
preparations were certainly not neglected during that time.
But it is explicitly stated in the chronicle that only after
this interval he commanded his generals to take possession
of Rajarattha also (gahetum Rajarattham pi yojayi danda-
ndyake, 70. 55), The actual frontier of the royal province
was further to the North between Ambavanarattha. in the

valley of the Ambanganga and the district of Janapada.

This appears clearly from the description of Prince Parakka-
mabahu’s road on his visit to Pulatthinagara. It is said in
the chronicle that he crossed the frontier of: his uncle’s
province (Dakkhinadesa) at that place and reached the
realm of King Gajabahu (piturafifio. ratthasimam samullan-
ghiy’ updgami Gajabahussa . rajjamhi Hanae Janapada- ‘
vhayam, 66. 110) Rai eee te

42. In order to make the ‘administration. ‘possible the ae

5 G. C. Mendis, Early History od Caiisn, pe 5

4 Z WILHELM GEIGER

provinces were divided into districts. The word for ‘district’
is rattha. The link between raftha ‘kingdom’ and ratthe
‘district’ is the meaning ‘open, rural country’. This mean-
ing in contrast with the fortified town, is also that of Skt.
tdstra in the Kautiliya Arthasdstra®; in Pali this would also
be janapada. By a certain number of districts a larger
unit was formed, called mandala which I propose to
translate by canton. From Mbhvs. 69.15-16 we may infer
that in Dakkhinadesa there were in the 12th century twelve
cantons and eighty-four districts. Therefore a canton
seems to have consisted of seven districts. Later onin the
13th century the kingdom seems to have been divided into
eighteen desd or provinces :— attharasadesa-nivdGsino. ‘the
inhabitants of the eighteen provinces’ (86. I1).

We do not know when such an organisation was
formed nor how far it was carried through in the kingdom.
From the chronicle we might assume that in the twelfth
century it chiefly existed in Dakkhinadesa, and it is not
impossible that the administration was more developed
here than in other provinces. It is a well-known fact
that the heir-apparent of a kingdom is often in a kind
of opposition to the reigning monarch and more accessible
than he to modern ideas and methods, and Dakkhinadesa
had been through centuries the domain of the Yuvaraja,
and, as such, may have more progressed than Rajarattha
and Rohana. Is it, for imstance, a mere coincidence
that with only one or two exceptions no district of
Rohana is. mentioned in the chronicle, though numerous
_topographical . names ..occur , in the description of the
various campaigns in that province of Parakkamabahu?
Frequently. the. ‘colourless. general term thana ‘locality’
is: used: here in the. chronicle. |
Jy ve exceptions ' are, -Navayojanarattha (72.60) and
ed Dvidasasehassekaratha eel rage ae former was situated.

vom Welt- tind Staatsleben,

Hie gee eISe

‘Malavatthu-mandala. The first was the country round the

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 95

in the extreme South-Western corner of Rohana and it
extended along the frontier of Dakkhinadesa opposite to
Paficayojanarattha which belonged to this province.
Apparently Paficayojanarattha corresponds to the modern
Pasdun Korale. Dvadasasahassaka is no district at all in
the technical sense of the word, but the South-West half
of Rohana and Kittisirimegha’s share of this province
when he partitioned it with his brother (cf. above 40).
The name of Hiivarattha (60.66) is of course the same as
the present Uva; it had however at that time (end of the
llth century) not such an extension, but was simply
a district of Malaya, East of Adam’s Peak.

Cantons (mandalaéni) mentioned in Rohana are:
Dighavapi-, Guttahala-, Mahagama-, Giri-, Uruvela-, and

Mahakandiya-tank, about thirty miles South-South-W est
of Batticaloa, and the name of the second is preserved
in the present village and district of Buttala. Mahagaéma-
mandala was the canton where the old capital of Rohana
was situated. The situation of the three last cantons
cannot be fixed with topographical precision, but they’ =
belonged, no doubt, to the same part of Robana ee
Dighavapi and Guttahaéla.

43. Many districts (ratthdni) ak ‘ Dakibinoilene ar
enumerated in the account of Parakkamabahu’s war
with King Gajabahu, especially | those extending along the.
Northern and North-Eastern frontier of the province (Mhvs. -
70. 53 sq.). The list may be confirmed and supplemented
by other passages of the chronicle (cf. 69°5 sq.). All these
districts, beginning on the West with Mallavalana and.
Tabbarattha on the left bank of the. Kala-oya and ending i
on the East with Ambavanarattha, north of ‘the preset
Matale, were the base of ety oem of P.

96 | WILHELM GEIGER

the other passages simply thdna, or the name is quoted
without any qualification?

Some districts and one canton (Dhanumandala, 70. 17
are mentioned in Malaya in the description of Parakka-
mabahu’s campaign against this hilly country (cf. 41). Itis
however doubtful if rattha and mandala here are to be
understood as words for administrative circuits or for
local units governed by local chiefs who did not acknow-
ledge the supremacy either of Rajarattha (cf. 70.7) or of
Dakkhinadesa. In two of the names there met with, the
word vagga (Skt. varga) is used approximately in the
sense of rattha, Majjhimavagga and Kosavagga. The same
word also occurs ina few other topographical names as
Mereliya~ and Donivagga. To the latter appears to
correspond the modern Denavaka, the denomination of
the surroundings of Pelmadulla, East of Ratnapura. io

On the whole we may form the impression that it

was” Parakkamabahu himself who extended. or tried to
extend the organisation existing in -Dakkhinadesa over

the other provinces, at least over Rajarattha, after he had
obtained the royal power and dignity.

| To be continued.
Neubiberg.

\
art Pseudo-Khmer Au Siam et le Prang

Par Dr. H. Parmentier

Le monument. bien conserve. ta W. Méhath’st de
R&tburi nous raméne plus stirement dans la. famille du
prang. lrédifice forme le centre d’un groupe de cing
that disposés en croix au milieu d’une pagode importante
“t son axe principal est dirigé E. 10° N.—Le plan de

’édifice principal est encore ce plan batard qui encadre
i: carré du prang de quatre portes dont trois sont
fausses et dont la principale n’apparait que par ses fron-
tons au dessus d’une étroite avancée qui tient 4 la fois de
la nef antérieure et de |’ avant-corps: : elle. est. ougeste par
une porte Al’Est. mt ml: Se gay

A Vextérieur, la tour est. east cee a cing arétes par |
angle et sea fausses-portes sont & double plan, Le. ,
corps de l’édifice s’enferme entre deux frises considérables i
et sa haute corniche porte six étages BY grandes antéfixed ;
un dernier étage conique peu clair regoit un, splendide ‘Spi |
dans l’esprit d’un érigula qui aurait 18 pointes en plusieu
étages. Les: fausses-baies commencent & comp er a pe
et donnent plutét. impression de grandes ‘antéfixes,
Malgré la hauteur considérable de Pétage principal “lea
superstructures tiennent une place énorme et Vimmense |
nu dw corps compte i peine dans Vensemble pour un
quart.

Ne.

L’édifice est relevé: ‘par. un quadruple soubassemeént
oe sia qui est commun jusqu’an. troisibme gradin
partant d’en ‘bas. Ses éléments sont -formés ei
doucines opposées autour he large bags a

98 H. PARMENTIER

bahut sont séparées par un rang de lotus; la plinthe se
décore de rosaces en fleurs saillantes, la cimaise de grands
losanges.

Ce bahut est réduib i’ une doucine et une cimaise sous
la nef; les profils de celle-ci, base et doucine, diminuent
@importance, de telle sorte quela cimaise da la corniche
du bas-cdté fictif atteint & peine la corniche des pilastres

la porte E. presque invisible de latour. Cette nef
antérieure éléve au centre un faux étage voité; elle n’a
pas de fausses-portes et son long mur s’étend nu jusqu’au
pignon qui contre l’ordinaire part dans toute la largeur
au dessus de la corniche de basse-nef. Cette disposition
permet de donner plus d’importance au fronton de la porte
BE. dentrée et par suite & la porte elle-méme. Mais aussi
la corniche de ses pilastres doit @tre descendue pour
échapper & celle dela basse-nef et le dessous du linteau
se place beaucoup plus bas que ceux des fausses Pong de
la tour, composition légérement boiteuse. :

Les prang latéraux s’élevérent sur le grand soubasse-
ment et vont jusqu’au prang central; leur base paratt
plus petite que la sienne. Ils montrent cing arétes dans
leurs superstructures, quatre & leur corps et le nombre de
celles-ci diminue dans les soubassements en descendant
pour finir par deux. La masse de la tour n’a aucune
ouverture, mais le soubassement montre une fausse-porte ;
sa corniche vient mourir surle corps méme du prang et
soutient' un petit étage garni d’un fronton double en
triangle quinerime 4 rien. Sur la corniche de la tour
s’élévent quatre: étages a’ antéfixes. L’impression de prang
 $%i que donne. déja la. grande tour s’accentue dans ces
édifices latéraux. Quant aux deux atitres sur l’axe E,-O.
“ils sont d'un autre esprit et se terminent per un stipa en
cloche et une pointe annelée. *

‘Avec le dernier édifice de la’ série nous retombons sur
un. imowiment qui est. nettement Worigine’ khmére. Le

) I 3 PBotibe oa été aéorit

6S
me

L/ART PSEUDO-KHMER AU SIAM ET LE PRANG = 99

Siamois ont fait d’un gopura oriental un sanctuaire
supplémentaire. Le groupe présente les mémes ‘parti-
cularités que le W. Sdém Yét: construction de latérite
gans mortier et ornementation de caractére siamois en
enduit; son histoire est vraisemblablement la méme et
nous n’y insisterons pas. |

Avant de clore cette revue examinons ceux des monu-
ments oti la forme du prang 8 accuse nettement et ot l’on
ne peut plus guére voir le souvenir de l’art khmér que par
la présence d’une série Vétages rapprochés sur un corps
carré redenté accompagné de baies vraies ou fausses sur
les axes,

Le prang qui forme le noyau au W. Ma&héth‘at de
Sivink ‘Albk est de ce genre; il est bien représenté dans
Varticle Claeys par les pl. LXVIII et LXIX. I] consti-
tne le centre d’un wit important dont Fournereau donne
le plan das le t, IIT pl. XXXVIT. sous le nom de Vat
Phra: Prang de Singkaldk. L’édifice offre trois étages de
soubassement redentés avec profils & doucine autour: d’une
bague & deux plans. Le corps peu important a une
grande base et une faible corniche ; il est accompagné sur
chaque axe par une fausse-porte a deux plans avec fronton
ogival lobé terminé par des naga. Au dessus sont 8
étages avec grandes antéfixes d’angle ; sur l’axe, le redent
central surmonté | dune antéfixe | creuse joue le réle de
fausse-baie. ~La tour s’achdve par une partie ronde et
lisse, réparation récente, terminée. par un anneau d’ot
part une énorme terminaison en quadruple trigula, en trois
étages et enfin la nointe terminale 8 & sept bagues-parasols.

Lédifice est précédé par un avant-corps peu accusé
mais qui forme encore une petite nef détachée sous le
fronton de la baie de l'Est. Elle abrite un long couloir
qui conduit & une cellule enfermée dans le prang: elle
était abritée par’ un plafond quia été déposé au Musée: 2
il était teillé dans un énorme. morceau de. bois de’ rose;
e’est une” grande Tr ace 3B cing” “zones: ~ dont- les deux
extérieures” sont ‘traitées: ei ‘Peale de lotus mais entidre-

100 . H. PARMENTIER

ment découpés par des décors; la forme carrée est
rattrapée par quatre motifs d’angle qui laissent une
large bande creuse peinte en rouge autour de la rosace
centrale. Ses écoingons ont des motifs de rinceaux
extrémement jolis enfermant un personnage & mi-corps
en priére qui sort de lotus...

Le dernier grand exemple est le prang Ae W.
M&hath‘at de Plisnuldk (Cl. pi. LXITI), Tl semble bien
prés de donner le dernier terme de l’évolution quoiqu’
il n’ait été construit qu’en 1482. Sur un terre-plein
d’un métre s’eléve un petit soubassement redenté, puis
un soubassement & corniche, enfin trois soubassemenis
moulurés qui vont en se réduisant; le tout forme un
ensemble d'une grande hauteur. Alors s’éléve le corps
méme du prang & cing redents par angle et fausses-portes
en saillie & deux plans soutenant ensemble trois frontons
ogivaux, Audessus un petit étage & multiples redents
_ sorne de garuda presque entiérement déiachés du fond.’
On voit ensuite quatre étages 4 7 redents par angle,
garnis de grandes antéfixes d’angle simples entourant
chaque fois une antéfixe de face ornée d’une figure;
elle compte pour la fausse-baie. Deux autres étages
d’antéfixes se rejournent en arriére pour donner la
courbure et celles d’axe ne présentent plus de sculpture.
Au dessus est un petit plateau rond d’ot part un
tricula quadruple & Y branches... Sur la face E., V’avant-
corps s'est réduit et c'est & peine si la porte orientale
est plus saillante que les. trois fausses-portes, Un escalier
garni de rampants en naga précédés de deva en priére et
de. lions. conduit & . la porte centrale deVEst qui donne
- aceds & une petite salle. antérieure. Les parois du corps
du prang. entre frise et contrefrise ont un fruit marqué.
- Cette partie est faible comme hauteur pour l’ensemble
! ot n’en compte guére que le septiome., Comme le remarque
‘trds fuera ee) ?. 404. te: pimpcrios es de

L'ART PSEUDO-KHMER AU SIAM ET LE PRANG Wt

verticalement au long de quatre étages, puis s’amincit
brusquement. et angulairement vers le sommet.. Cela
donne & ce vaste déme fait de petits éléments un sap
lourd et disggacieux d’od toute dominante est exclue.”

Plus étirés encore en longueur les deux modéles,
sans doute un peu artificiels, du W. P‘r& Th‘at de
Péc'Sburi donnés dans la pl. Cl. XLVI ne font qu’accen-
tuer les caractéres de cette évolution. On en verra le
terminus follement aminci et malgré la surcharge de
décors devenu d’une sécheresse désespérante dans le grand ,
prang du W, Cen & Bangkok (pl. TTI B). e .

Résumons et déblayons cette série. Le charmant cy
édifice du W. Suon Dok ne me parait pas a retenir ici;
il viendra mieux se placer dans une awtre section que
nous Consacrerons au rappel des éléments indiens plutét
que spécialement khmérs; on sentira alors pourquoi;
d’ailleurs sa date tardive en face de son caractére
antique empéchent d’y voir un échelon: et surtout le départ
de l’évolution.. 7 ie

Peuvent étre considérés comme des monuments Sesthait
ment khmérs caractérisés par leur constenabien ; diffévente.

Sa’n P'rh Sta Mong, et
eras ide

Lip'buri, le W. Kham ‘Pan Tang de P GocSburi., ae

Nous classerons comme pseudo-khmérs les 10 autres : 8
le W. Sis&vdi de Sikhét‘i, le W. Mahéth‘at, le- Raj. A.
Bunah et le W. P‘utth‘aisivin d’Ayuthia, le Wy.
Mahat ‘at de Beals oa, bias ae. oe ss es W:

W., Pink. Ths . de Pebo'tburi.. ¥
Howe ne, Dic Mes a
102 H. PARMENTIER

précision, faute d’éléments sirs de discrimination, Tout
ce qu’on peut dire de la plupart et c’est le cas en
particulier pour le W. P‘ré P‘ai Luéng, ec’est qu’ils
-paraissent pluiét antérieurs aux derniers régnes cons-
tructeurs du Cambodge; ils sembleraient ainsi plutdt des
batiments élevés dans les premiere temps de la domination
khmére, Seuls Prang Sdm Y6t et peut-étre Kham Pen
Leng pourraient étre des derniers et compter comme de la
fin°du XII‘ ou du. XITI° siécle.

La question est autrement délicate et plus iniéressante
pour les dix autres. Qu'on les compare aux monuments du
XI° s,, date la plus haute jusqu’ of on puisse les faire
remonter ou & ceux du XIT° s. et du début du XIIT’,
derniére époque ot l’art khmér a largement construit en
matériaux robustes, le SE TE des formes est diffi-
cile et on ne trouve qu’une ressemblance réelle mais
vague, Pour la derniére période ot la comparaison est
plus aisée et qu’une bonne part des dates ou des traditions .
réclame, la ressemblance s’efface encore plus et ce n’est
pas seulement la version spéciale de l’enduit qui les différ-
encie. En plugde Vornementation, les temples de cette
période au Cambodge se caractérisent par quelques
dispositions particuliéres: enceintes de galeries, composi-
tion de salles ou de vestibules & trois nefs, le plus souvent
fausses, triomphe de la sculpture qui devient partie
constructive de l’architecture, usage courant st économique
de la fausse-fenétre. D’autre part le Cambodge parait
avoir abandonné complétement 2 & cette époque l’usage de la
brique: son emploi. en magonnerie semble avoir fleuri
surtout aux temps ot le Khmér n’était pas encore maitre
de ‘Putilisation du grés” et on la voit alors longtemps
régnér dans les plus: grands temples, accompagnée de
Yenduit; le Khmér a peu taillé directement la brique
ee comme le faisait couramment le eee et Labo D n'y besa

murs de refend,

A
L'ART PSEUDO-KHMER AU SIAM ET LE PRANG = 103

que d’une utilité partielle; deux réles lui sont attribués:
dans le grand temple elle garantit par soa monolithisme
artificiel!. ’équilibre des votites qu’on redoute encore de
construire en pierres encorbellées ;—elle fournit la matiére
des sanctuaires provinciaux, surtout quand ils sont de
petite taille, A Vheure du triomphe de la pierre, dans la
seconde moitié du XII° et au XITII° siécles, la brique
disparait méme dans les deux cas: la voiite est réalisée en
grés et a généralement tenu quand la végétation ne l’a pas
attaquée; d’autre part je ne connais pas un seul sanctuaire
isolé dans la campagne de tout le Cambodge qui offre les
décors et les modes caractéristiques de l’art du Bayon.
L’enduit, de méme, a cessé d’étre utilisé au Cambodge dés
la fin du X° siécle.

Les édifices qui nous intriguent n’ont aucun des
éléments spéciaux que nous venons de signaler et la brique,

@ailleurs liée par le mortier apparent y est d’un usage
courant. Chose curieuse méme elle réagit sur l'emploi de

la latérite, comme si la seconde était venue & l’oceasion se
substituer &la premiére. Tandis que le Cambodge emploie
la latérite en fortes masses, parfois énormes, elle est au
Siam taillée le plus souvent en moéllons de la forme et du
volume d'une grosse brique. En méme temps que brique ‘et
latérite sont employés avec aide du mortier: Venduit vient |
invariablement former le décor sur la magonnerie et dans
des formes le plus souvent inconnues de l'art khmér. On
se demande alors pourquoi on s’acharne & considérer
comme khmérs des monuments qui n’ont & peu prés rien
de Vart contemporain ow du dernier art connu du Cam-
bodge. Il est vrai qu’on peut.dire que ce sont des

4

104 H. PARMENTIER

b&timents exécutés par des artisans inexpérimentés &
Pimitation des modes khméres, L’ouvrier siamois qui a
appris du Birman lusage du mortier et Vemploi de
Venduit s’efforce avec ces moyens de traduire l’esprit des
monuments splendides du Cambodge, Il faudrait en ce cas
reconnaitre qu‘il y réussit bien mal et le fait est plus extra.
ordinaire encore quand on songe aux merveilles de grace
qwil exécute en ce temps dans un esprit différent d’une
part, et d’autre part que les modéles étaient & céte dansune
jeune splendeur que des siécles d’abandon & Voeuvre des-
tructrice de la forét n’ont pu encore détruire. On s’étonne
alors que le riche fondateur n’ait pas fait venir du pays
voisin les fils des ouvriers qui ont bati les merveilles d’An-
kor. Bien plus, comment expliquer le fait suivant? L’art
du Bayon montre un décor en surface continue ot les
frises extrémes disparaissent dans le manteau de ciselure.
Cet art pseudo-khmér tire tout Veffet de son parement,
toujours et partout, du grand blanc quisépare et met en
valeur ces deux splendides frises, Et cependant rien
mieux que l’enduit ne permettait de réaliser cette trame
continue de décor qui a ravi le créateur Khmér..

Le passage du prasdé au prang considéré comme I’évolu-
tion normale de l’art khmér me semble présenter aussi, de
graves difficultés, Il existe, il est vrai, dans V’art khmér
classique avant la période du Bayon un monument qui sem.
ble appeler le prang. Oe sont les tours d’Aikor Vat avec
la forme en obus de leurs superstructures et le gonflement
des faces qui améne Ja section & une masse en carré convexe
-intermédiaire entre Ja tour carrée. de Vorigine parfois dé-
pourvue de fnusace-portes et.le plan redenté du prang. qui
finit pars ‘inscrire | dans un cercle, & l’occasion dans un
losange (fg. 5): Orla tour d’Ankor Vat est un accident dans

Vart. khmér et le génial architecte qui créa le monument
na pas fait école:. Vart de Jayavarman. -VIT reprend la
tradition. normale, quand il n’a pas. reeours au yénérable
oti si i étrange mhais si décoratif. des grandes faces d’Ava-
itée forme 1 ah do ) Vert pipe accuse cae

ee

eo ae ee

L’ART PSEUDO-KHMER AU SIAM ET LE PRANG = 105

carré et méme les chapelles isclées comme le Ta Prohm
K8l gardent au miliew du quadruple décor de leurs bates

Figure 5 —

vraie ou fausses le plan carré & peine bombé par les
redents. Rien ne permet done & mon sens d’affrmer que
si l’art khmér de magonnerie. avait pu poursuivre aon
évolution sur place, i] fut finalement. parvenu au prang.
Comment rendre compte. de ces difficultés si, comme i 1 .

semble par ailleurs presque évident eb comme maints dé-
tails de soubassement, de frontons, détages: le prouvent
clairement, il faut admetire le rapport du prang siamois
avec le prasat khmer? Laissons de cété le praPlene: ; nous
y reviendrons par un détour.

Les pays d’Extréme- Orient ‘piviliede par VInde aut
que le Siam offrent tous un tablean plus franc _En'génér

dart, la

106 H. PARMENTIER

matiéres durables, retourner aux constructions légéres indi-
génes ou seuls quelques motifs persistants marquent la
longue influence passagére. C’est l’histoire de Java, de
la Birmanie, du Campi, du Cambodge. Au Siam, peut-
étre par suite d’un trop grand mélange initial de races ou
par la succession des invasions l’influence indienne plus
pure et plus nette parfois qu’ailleurs n'arriva jamais &
créer un art robuste original et un, et la statuaire qui est &
peu prés seule a fournir un tableau clair offre seulement
une série d’écoles successives presque indépendantes.

En architecture existe la méme étrange variéié. Le
vihara léger a étages superposés indien dont nous connais-
sons les images aux grottes bouddhiques de ’Inde a donné
dans sa traduction en Extréme-Orient tout une série de
systemes. Le plus répandu est celui of Vétage inférieur
prend toute l’importance et réduit les autres A soit & des
éléments moindres chargés de stupa en coupole ou en
cloche (Java), soit #4 une succession de gradins sembla-
bles qui, répétent Vétage principal en s’amenuisant en
pyramide (Campa et Cambodge), ou C portant une pyra-
mide d’étages minuscules; formule qu'on retrouve en
plusieurs points et qui semble avoir été Varchitecture
préférée du Fou-nan. PD, un autre systéme, plus naturel
et plus prés sans doute du modéle lointain ne donne la
prépondérance & aucun étage, mais les empile successive-
ment en les réduisant 4 peine, forme spéciale que les pays
de civilisation indienne montrent peu mais qui a fait
fortune au contraire dans ceux de famille chinoise: c’est
la ‘‘pagode”’ classique, la Tour de porcelaine de Nankin
et tant d’autres, en Chine, au Japon, en Corée et celle-1i
méme qui, connue par d’ innombrables débris de modéles
du XITT° siécle vient d'étre retrouvée en pied au Tonkin
(tour de Binh-sén, BE. KX XIII, pl. XXXID).

Tl est curieux de constater que toutes ces versions,
séparées ailleurs, se rencontrent ensemble au Siam, au
moins en modéles souvent récents mais qu'il n’est pas
bien hardi de ope eer SOpies de témoins plus anciens

Ce ee

Apretenny or =

L’ART PSEUDO-KHMER AU SIAM ET LE PRANG = 107

disparus. D: l‘édifice en superposition d’étages nous est
donnée en plusieurs cas, soit d’‘allure ancienne comme les
tours du W. Kukut de Ctieng Mai (Cl. pl. DX XXIT-
LXXXITI) et celle du W. M&hdth’at de Lémp‘un (Cl. pl.
LXX XIV) ou plus récents immense tour octogonale du W.
Mahath‘at d’Aytith ia (pl. ITB 4 gauche), th‘at du W. Suon
Dok de C’ieng m&i (Doc. pl. VIA). Le systéme C plus
rare est repréenté par un th‘at du W. Cedi Cet Théu de
Cri S‘ate‘Snal&i (Cl. pl. LX XIII A au fond, vers le milieu)
et par divers autres that dont je n’ai pas d'images. Le
mode #. est montré par le premier édifice examine ici du
W. Suon Dok de Clieng Mai(pl. I A), les édifices intéri-
eurs du W. P‘réi Sing Luong de la méme ville (Cl. pl.
OXIT) ou du W. P'ra That Lampang Luong (Doc. pl.
I C) construit en 1591. Le plus vénérable peut-étre A est
représenté par les charmants édifices de Ligor et de CBiya
(Cl. pl. XXXVITT, XX XIX) et par d’autres plus récents
comme le W. Pra Yun de Lamp‘un (Cl. pl. LXXXVII)
ou le th’at du W. P’r& Cedi Luéng (Cl. pl. LXXXVIII C).
Je ne parle pas du simple stipa dont on a des exemples
de toutes les formes possibles, depuis la plus sobre comme le
second édifice du W. Mahath‘at de Sukhot ‘di (Cl, pl. LXX)
jusqu’aux plus fins ou aux plus compliqués qu’on rencontre
dans tous les clichés qui se rapportent au Siam, voire les —
plus extraordinaires comme celui du W. Ku Tau (Cl. pl.
LXXXVITII A) de Ctieng’ Mai, fusion peut-étre de la tour
& étages A et et de Vidée du. she en. coupole, agrémenté
de portes inattendues,

On sent ainsi la folle variété des germes qui ont été
déposés sur la terre du Siam soit directement en des points
divers, soit par influence des pays voisins fécondés plus
ié6t ou autrement. Mais on est e’tonné aussi du travail
énorme réalisé sur place dans l’évolution de toutes ces
formes, L’absence d'une résultante unique et qui fixe
Vesprit empéche de sentir. Veffort considerable qui s’est
produit continument en. ce pays. ‘Et rien n est plus frap-
pant que de voir. & une » date sans doute pas tres s lointaine,

108 H. PARMENTIER

peut-étre le XIIT° siécle une version de cléture de iemple
d’apparence aussi follement ancienne que celle du W.
Mahath‘at de Savank ‘lok que mon ami Claeys compare
trés justement au “rail’’ du stdpa de Sanchi. C’est une suite
d’énormes blocs de latérite circulaires plantés verticale-
ment en terre l’un contre autre comme des pieux, sous un
chaperon en coupe de toit angulaire; ce mur ast percé de
portes doubles faites de 3 piéces analogues mais plus
importantes encore; elles soutiennent deux formidables
masses quia Vextrémité s’élargissent en deux minces pi-
gnons et au centre recoivent une nouvelle pierre qui porte
un pyramidion en losange ciselé en édicule (pl. V A et Cl,
pl. LXXT B et C). Et cette disposition extraordinaire n’est
pas unique; on retrouve quelque chose d’approchant au
moins en deux autres i wodit 3 des enceintes en cylindres de

latérite au W. Cedi Cet Théu de la méme ville etau W.
Xetuphon de Sukhot‘&i, une troisi¢me | en pléces de schiste

au Cet Théu. |

On ne sait alors jamaisen présence des formes inatten-
dues qu’on rencontre 4 quelle origine peut-dtre trés
lointaine i] faut les rapporter, si l’évolution n'est pas
purement locale ou s’il faut chercher quelque modéle
étranger. Ainsi de Vétrange batiment carré réduit
aujourd’hui aux quatre murs du W. Trip‘ing T‘éng Lang
de Sukhot‘i et de ses splendides portes. C’est le bas’d’une
tour carrée en briques abritant un buddha assis énorme,
complétement ruiné. L’édifice offre en avant l’ébrasement
dela porte et une fausse-porte se dresse sur chaque face
enire les arétes franches etlisses. La fausse-porte, large,
est &deux plans avec motif d’arc en U renversé nervé.
Le corps du rampant plat mouluré se retrousse en crosse
de décors peu distincts, La porte traitée de méme est plus
saillante. Le second plan offre un fronton assez bas et
ainsi presque en angle droit; les crosses ici paraissent
des néga. Les fausses-portes encadrent des panneaux
denduit d’un décor vremarquable mais qui ont beaucoup
be chances deire ‘moins anciens que la construction méme

ee se pee CR Sn marten pe

L’ART PSEUDO-KHMER AU SIAM ET LE PRANG 109

et ses décors architecturaux. Claeys, p. 416, les rapproche
de décors de méme nature au W. Cét Yét de c‘ieng Mai
qu’il croit également postérieur au monument qui les
porte, double hypothése qui me parait exacte, A la fausse-
porte N. le Buddha debout devant une orbe de sa hauteur
ales pieds sur un piédestal circulaire ; il est accompagné
par Ananda, sur un fond de rinceaux (Cl. pl. LA XVI A).
Sur la face postérieure O., la niche est occupée par le
Buddha debout marchant, devant une’ orbe elliptique
incliné; ilse détache sur un fond de nombreux person-
nages en priére, chacun avec une auréole (Cl. pl. LXXVI
B). la fausse-porte S. abrite une scéne représentant le
Buddha descendant un escalier; il est accompagné d'une
série de figures parées portant des banniéres et des parasols;
le Sage, de cdté, a les deux pieds sur la méme marche. Il
semble bien exister ici une intention réelle de perspective,
non pour les degrés, mais pour les personnages (Cl. pl.
LXXVIC.) |

Pius déconcertant encore dans une forme bien plus
évoluée et devenue plus séche est le fronton extraordinaire
de la fausse-porte S. & l’édicule HE. du grand th ‘at; au
W., Mahath‘at de Sukhot‘ai (pl. LIT A). La téte supérieure
au sommet de l’arc est d’un caractére tout particulier.
Le makara qui termine Vare a de curieux rapports avec
celui de art primitif khmér et aussi avec ceux de l’Inde
ancienne; comme certains de ceux-ci, il avale Vare: il
posséde une forte patte placée comme une serre d’oiseau
au milieu du corps et est orné d’une grande queue qui se
relevant vers le haut donne la ligne habituelle de cette
composition, telle qu’elle est couramment traduite dans
Vart classique khmér par le néga polycéphale, dernier avatar
du makara initial. Disposition inattendue: lasurface de
Vare est divisée en trois zénes paralléles : vers l'intérieur
des moulures & perles et: a lotus ; ‘au. centre, un panneau
long occupé par un rinceau en sinusoide qui enferme dans
chaque anse une large fleur iraitée en marguerite ; Vextéri-
eur est garni.d’une rangée: de fouilles retroussées d’un

110 H. PARMENTIER

caractére spécial et qui n’a rien & voir avec la feuille
rampante khmére; elles se retrouvent dans les motifs
finaux de l’ample queue des makera, La face latérale de
cette crosse (F. I, pl. LXXVT) est traitée dans un tout
autre esprit que facilite le jeu des enduits et le plan courbe
est rempli par un beau motif de patisserie en rincean
double partant d’une figure féminine assise. En arriére,
sur le cdté de la porte principale E. vue dans le partie
latérale du cliché une sorte d’antéfixe avec une figurine
vient occuper le vide. |

Non moins extraordinaire est l’arc d’une porte d’enceinte
du W. P‘rt Sadet de L&mpang qui, dans son ensemble,
rentre dans la série B. Il offre une forme en plein cintre ou
mieux en demi-ellipse & grand axe vertical; car d’ordinaire
dans cette architecture étrange influencée sans doute
par Vart birman ou souvenir d’origines communes, l’arc
est libre. Sacrosse énorme est un ndga triple qui part
vers Vextérieur derriere une gracieuse hinnart debout,
h corps d’oiseau, figure dont la presence surprend. La
fausse-baie non moins curieuse s’orne de deux tétes de
makara disproportionnées tournées vers l*intérieur et au bas
de la baie comme dans un arc indojavanais (pl. IIT C).

Ces divers exemples n’ont & peu prés rien de khmer;
Vimpression du suivant le rattache & art du Cambodge,
bien qu'un tel motif ne s’y rencontre jamais.

Le grand are qui forme niche & un minuscule buddha
dans une des salles qui s’allongent au pied du prang
de Raj Bunah d’Ayuth‘ia est une splendide ogive lobée
qui ne détonnerait pas dans un monument d’Ankor; par
contre il se retourne en deux. crosses, téte de monstre mi-
crocodile mi-makara qui Vavalent; leur queue retroussée
est par malheur perdue. En outre, arrangement tout a
fait inattendu, le méme are s’evase brusquement; il
continue encore &.descendre en s’élargissant en bas &
nouveau et se retrousse par des motifs & ras de terre; ils
sont perdus, Comme sile manieur de chaux avait voulu
insister sur l’esprit khmér de Vogive lobée, il V’a tout
|

ot ae

aoe ge

>
2 ‘
Pc certeniabtnmnine a 0

Il] A—Fronton de la fausse-porte S. de Védicule E. du

Prang du W. Mahath’at de Sukhot‘ai
Ill B.—Prang du W. Cen de Bangkok . __ 2
Ill C.—Parte du W. P'ro Sadet de Lampang

[To face page tro]...

Plate IX.

HI Cc.

LART PSEUDO-KHMER AU SIAM ET LE PRANG Ill

entourée de nerveuses feuilles rampantes qu’on retrouve
encore sur l’are inférieur (pl. V B).

Untel exemple est frappant et s’ajoutant 4 la série
des faits réunis auparavant montre comment il faut, je
crois, comprendre les rapports de l’art khmér et de l’art
siamois. De la variété des modéles d’édifice qu’on
rencontre au Siam et de V’étrangeté de certain motifs de
décor d’ enduit d’inspiration lointaine hindoue que
portent les uns et les autres, il faut déduire qu’une série
complexe de couranis d’art sortis de la source commune
ont inondé le payssans compter celui quia donné l'art
i‘Zi et ses manifestations remarquables d’art mixte au
Laos et au Siam. Mais il faut encore compter avec un
élément considérable qu’on néglige toujours trop dans
l'étude de tous ces arts, parce que nous ne l’avons plus
sous les yeux et qu’il faut ’évoquer par le raisonnement,
Vemploi constant, & cdté de l’édification exceptionnelle en
maconnerie robuste seule durable, de la construction
légére. L’évolution de l’art censé khmér et la naissance
du prang me semblent alors aisés: a expliquer Bay Vhypo
thése suivante,

Au temps de sa domination sur le Siam, le Cambodge y
construit toute une série de monuments dont wun petit
nombre en matériaux durables comme celui de P‘imai,
nous sont seuls parvenus, Celui-ci est un bel exemple
d'une forme dominante, intermédiaire entre les pras&t
isolés précédés d’une salle de culte en construction legére
des débuts et les complexes finaux de magonnerie ot
cette salle lie le Saint des saints aux systémes de salles
et de galeries qui constituent. le temple. Pendant une
longue période qui débute & la fin du X° siecle, le prasat
est regulierement précedé par une grande salle de
magonnerie généralement & Vimitation d’un édifice 4
trois nefs, vraies ou fausses., Un des premiers et des plus
jolis exemples en esd a. Bantay Srdi_ 546,2 commencé en
967 AD.; on retrouve la méme. disposition. aux: ‘temples de
Vat Ek 861, de pak Bast ae: de Phnom Cisor 23 he

5
112 H. PARMENTIER

temps de Siryavarman I; on la voit au temple de P‘imai
447; bien plus tard elle fleurit encore aux gracieux monu-
ments de Cau Say Tévoda 489, de Théimmanon 490, de
Bantaéy Samré 541, voisins dansle temps d’Ankor Vat,
c'est & dire du XII° siécle. Une des dispositions courantes
de ce systéme est la suivante: les portes latérales ei
postérieure de la tour continuent & ne pas donner accés au
sanctuaire, mais un gracieux arrangement les abrite d’un
porche devant lequel la porte, vraie alors, se répéte &
nouveau; dans l’axe un quatriéme abri fait communiquer
la cella avec la salle antérieure. J’ai indiqué quelques
exemples; je pourrais en citer bien d’autres; mais ce
peu suffit 4 montrer importance du type et la continuité
de son emploi sur plusieurs siécles. I] dat fournir le
plus grand nombre des édifices d’architecture légére dont
le vainqueur se devait de couvrir le pays, ne pouvant que
rarement faire l'effort cofiteux d’un temple en maconnerie
comme P‘imai, Or si l’on prend les exemples les plus
complets et en méme temps les moins siamisés dans nos
édifices pseudo-khmérs, le prang central du W, Mahéth‘at
de Lép‘buri et Védifice ruiné de Culamini, c'est la
Ischématisation déja avancée de ce type (fg. 6) la tour

enmnoovay
a macaeal
Sota

fetes png

Figure 6
avec ses portes fausses, résidu ‘des porches sans acces,
et son. eee ue, aveo 8 son- Siege, sa croisée de votites et

\
VART PSEUDO-KHMER AU SIAM ET LA PRANG 113

ses portes latérales, amas d’éléments qui n’ont plus aucun
sens dans un si petit espace, enfin son porche extérieur
avec ses fenétres quand la porte libre suffit largement &
Véclairer. Fait nouveau, le tout est remonte sur un
systeme de soubassements considérable; il existait dans
Vart khmér, mais bien plus modeste: il prend ici une
importance dévorane par suite de la nécessité de remonter
Vensemble au dessus de Vhabituel clotire dont le Tdi
enserre étroitement le sanctuaire et que nous retrouvons
dans presque tous ses temples. Avec Vindépendance
d’esprit née chez le Siamois de la multiplicité des courants
dart qui ont sillonné le pays, il ne s’est pas reporté
servilement au modéle ; d’ailleurs nombre de réparations
@enduit avait déja dule défigurer. Le type initial par
suite a du rapidement se déformer et se simplifier et le
désaxement des portes latérales de la nef marque la
disparition de lacellule de jonction, de régle dans Tart
khmér et dont on trouve la trace nette & l'intérieur du
plan de Lip‘buri. Dans l’aspect extérieur le beau parti
de grands nus qui s’établit dans nombre d’exemples
cambodgiens et qu’on trouve & P*imai, s’'Impose dans ces
constructions avec les frises’ ornementales qui encadrent
le sobre parement et le mettent en valeur ; mais leur dessin
méme a du changer dés les premiéres copies.

De tous ces exemples elevés au Siam en construction
légére, rien n’a pu se conserver et les premiers termes de
l’évolution gui nous apparaissent sont ceux qu’a fixés la
traduction en laterite de I’édifice léger lorsque, lassés
d’avyoir toujours & reprendre les b&timents en construction
légére, les Siamois se sont avisés de remplacer 1’ossature
de bois trop fragile par une magonnerie de matériaux
durables hourdés au mortier birman. La brique était
sans doute encore trop difficile & se procurer ‘ou ‘trop
cofteuse: on la remplace économiquement par des
moéllons de latérite taillés dans la dimension de cette |
brique méme, fait inyraisemblable mais absolument sar

114. , HF, PARMENTIER

et dont les exemples sont nombreux. Dés lors le batimen}
peut se maintenir jusqu’a nous et l’évolution devient fort
claire grice aux quelques étapes dont nous avons gardé
les témoins, La rapidité de la transformation continue
qui s’avére ainsi rend trés vraisemblables les modifica~
tions antérieures & peine plus fortes,

Culamiini tend & perdre les fenétres du porche de la nef,
Raj Bunah et P‘uith‘aisivan n’ont plus de vestibule et
les portes latérales de la nef deviennent fausses; elles
disparaissent au prang de Ratburi; la nef arteriouts se
réduit 4 un avant-corps modeste au prang dw W. Muhath-
‘at de S&vink‘élék pour s’effacer complétement devant
celui de P‘isnuldk.! Bien entendu je ne dis pas que ces
exemples dans leur forme actuelle se sont succédé rigoureu-
sement dans cet. ordre, maisils donnent, pour moi, une
série claire des étapes de l’évolution. On ne doit cependant
pas étre trés loin de la vérité parce que la transformation
du prasés en prang semble marcher dans ces exemples de
‘pair avee les transformations dela salle antérieure. Le
premier cas accuse encore nettement L’aréte du carre
entre les fausses-baies comme il marque le souvenir de la
cellule de jonction ; l’édifice est seulement un peu trop
étiré pour un prasat ordinaire. Le 3° etle 4° tendent
déja & noyer Varéte du carré, réduisent les fausses-baies
et perdent méme les lotus supérieurs; le 5° n’a plus de
fausses-baies et les remplace chaque fois par une énorme
antéfixe ; le 6° en marque encore un vague souvenir, mais
Varéte principale compte encore moins et elle s'est
complétement effacée dans le dernier. L’étage terminal
en lotus, encore sensible. au début se perd vite, le nombre
des étages passe de 5 & 7 ou plus ot. les antéfixes s ’allongent
et prennent chaque fois plus d’importance en méme temps
qu’elles se simplifient et que.celles du haut se renversent
en arriére, ramenant la masse générale & la courbe continue
que perce seulement le navagula final.

Boe gothe Bue Bulletin. de la ¢ commission srekiolaaiawe, de? Indechints
sh _ 1900 pF v Ay cael ‘as *
[#11 advd aovf oz]
or idumg np said ayes :enyandy.p qeung fey—g ~, Sung np (fea, : Yopeyurars op re mpeyey “y—y “A

Ne

"Ye oIRg -LE61 “SIDE

\
L'ART PSEUDO-KHMER AU SIAM ET LE PRANG 115

Cette étude nous permet-elle d’entrevoir avec un peu
plus de précision la date de ces divers monuments; en
raison des difficultés mentionnées au début, i] n’est pas
inutile de le rechercher.

Les batiments que nous admettons comme khmeérs se
placent vraisemblablement autour du XII° siécle, acciden-
tellement sans doute plus haut, comme le Pr. Ban Si; il
est peu probable que ils soient sensiblement postérieurs ;
cessant de construire en maconnerie au pays d’origine, il
serait invraisembleble que rois ou grands seigneurs aient
utilisé ces modes cofiteux dans des pays excentriques.

Nous avons quelques dates, utilisables avec les réserves
précédentes pour les autres; elles paraissent assez bien
s’accorder avec l’évolution supposée. Culamani serait
du roi Paramatrailokanatha, c’est & dire du milieu du XV°
siécle ;; le prang de Ptignultk de 1482, soit de la fin;
l’écart entre les deux époques semble faible pour l'import-
ance des transformations et l’on serait tenté de discuter
lune ou l'autre de ces dates; mais la premiére est de
fondation et il est par suite impossible de la reculer pour
l'édifice existant; pour le second batiment ce sont ses
caractéristiques mémes de masse qui le font sentir si
évolué: on ne peut en appeler & aucune modification
postérieure qui n’eut porté que sur les décors. S'il faut,
done comme je le pense, admettre ces deux dates, on
devrait en conclure que l’évolution, lente d’abord s’est
précipitée vers la fin et c’est la un fait. assez fréquent,
Par suite le prang de Lip‘buri qui semble se placer avant
Culamini devrait sans doute le précéder de fort peu; le
placer au début du XV° siécle semblerait la plus haute
ancienneté & lui attribuer. Il faudrait alors admettre qui la
transformation du batiment khmér initial en construction
légére, edifice d’usage courant au XIII* sitcle aurait
demandé prés de 300 ans. avant d’en venir au type de
Lip‘ buri pours ‘achever ensuite en moins d’un siécle.

En résumé et pour. préciser ‘les éléments de ce long
article, l’édifice siamois né dune forme khmére en cons-

116 H. PARMENTIER

truction légére importée par le vainquer, identique dans
son aspect extérieur & celle qui donna en maconnerie de
grés les monuments de Thommanon au Cambodge, de
P*‘imai au Siam; puis, sans aucun apport khmér nouveau
il eut ensuite évolué en construction légére an Siam
seulement et se fut fixé en maconnerie grossiére 3% revéte-
ment d’enduit au XV° siécle, comme le monirent les
pagodes du Wat Mahath’at de Lipb’ari et'de Culamini ; il
se serait alors transformé rapidement sans doute par une
marche paralléle dans les deux systémes de construction
et eut donné finalement au XVI° siécle le prang puremnt
siamois.

Une telle hypothése a un autre intérét que de nous
faire mieux comprendre comment les faits ont di se
passer; elle reléve en plus V’art siamois de Vétrange
anomalie de n’avoir créé aucune forme type et emprunté
ses seuls monuments importants aux arts voisins, Comme
nous avons une architecture mixte et Iégére Si des
mieux constituées et du plus haut intérét, voisine comme
lignes des architectures correspondantes au Cambodge
et en Birmanie mais toutefois tras distincte, nous
dégageons ainsi une architecture robuste bien siamoise et
qui n’aurait comme tous ces arts d'Extréme-O rient qu’un
point de départ étranger, moins lointain que ceux des
autres arts en ces pays mais datant encore de plusieurs
siécles: elle eut réalisé une forme entiérement nouvelle,
le prang, & une épogue od les arts les plus glorieux
d’Extréme-Orient. tombaient en décadence ou en sommeil,

Phnom Penh
ee

Pl.

Pl. II

Til

IV

a]

oo Oo

Table des Illustrations

Planches hors-texte

Apres la page

A—Vue de Védifice rajouté au vihan de

Suon Dék de C‘ieng Mai... ves
B—Prang du Raj Bunah d’Ayi th‘ia ie
A—Tours de Sis4vai & Sakhét‘ai ae
B— ,, du W. Mabath‘at d’Aytthda
A—Fronton de la fausse-porte 8. de

I’ édicule E. du prang du W. Mahath’

at de Stikhot‘di ... wee wes
B—Prang du W. Cen de Bangkok oe
C—Porte du W. P‘ri Sadet de Lampang ...
A—Ridifice de Gulam&ni & Pisniildk : cote

du porche wee soe wee
B— 5 ” ” partie
de fausse-porte ... wee ae
A—W. Mahath ‘at de SdvtinkSlok: “rail”
du prang wes Bate b.
B—Raj Bunah d’Ayith‘ia:salle prés du
prang: arc wd nee Br

Figures dans le texte
Plan de l‘édifice rajouté au vihan de
W. Suon Dok de Crieng aD : re:

Profilduméme ...
Tour du Ww. Mshéth‘at de Lip ‘biiri: plan

Edifice de Gulaméni & ee profil de

aan aan

corniche ae Py, nee
Divers plans des prasdt et prang es
Porte du W. P‘r% Sadet de ee Pea

fausse-baie jae chy SCM ape

To face p. 116

11
17
13
13

110

110
110

21
23

114

114
Page

il
11
18

24
105

12

A New Inscription from Fu-Nan

By Dr. G. CozpEs

Mon. R. Dalet, Correspondent of the French School of
the Far East in Cambodia, has just discovered a group
of vestiges of primitive Khmér art in the Province of
Treang.’ This group comprises, among some fragments
of sculpture of mediocre interest, an inscription incised
upon a plaque of schist.

This inscription (Pl. XI) consists of eighteen lines in
Sanskrit, forming five stanzas (4 Sardalavikridita and | Sloka).
From the seventh line the last characters of each p@da are
much effaced or completely illegible. v

The text relates to the foundation of a hermitage (araéma)
with a tank (tatéka) and a dwelling-house (dlaya) by Queen
Kulaprabhavati, the principal spouse of a king called
Jayavarman. |

With which Jayavarman are we concerned here? In the
absence of dates, the palaeography of the inscription
permits us to answer that itis a king of Fu-nan who reigned
at the end of the 5th century A.D.

At first sight this inscription is remarkable for the
general archaism of its script. On closer inspection and
after comparing it with the two inscriptions of Fu-nan at
present known,” it may be concluded thatit presents all
the palaeographical characteristics that permit us to attribute

1 The place whence. comes ‘this SHioctiptlom is called Neak Ta
Dambang Dék; it is a dependency ‘of the village of Khvao, situated in
the district of Prei Sandék and is found 200 m. ‘north of the Buddhist
monastery of Vat. Somavodei. The province: of Treang, in the south of
Cambodia, is rich enough in vestiges: of primitive or pre-Angkorite period.

2 Inscription of Gunavarman at het Cee, Chine) and .of
Rudravarman at Bati (BEFEO., Cea: Be aD

118 G. G@EDES

these two texts to a period anterior to the middle of the
6th century A. D.: traces of box-heads at the top of the
aksaras, inequality of the two lower strokes of ra, special
form of lingual na which is distinguished from dental na
only by the two divergent strokes of the upper extremity of
this character, brevity of the left lower stroke of ya, crossing
asinxof the lower strokes of ma. Most of these charac-
teristics, with the exception of inequality of the lower
strokes of ra, are sporadically found in the inscriptions of
Bhavavarman I and Mahendravarman (second half of the
6th century) and even of Iéanavarman I (frst half of the 7th
century) .° But they are never found together as is the
case here, and above all they do not survive down to the
reign of Jayavarman I (second half of the 7th century).
Besides, the province where this new inscription has been
found has already given us several inscriptions anterior to
Jayavarman I, which no longer present any of these
palaeographical archaisms. Such are the inscription of
Bhavavarman, I at Ponhea Hor,* the stéle of [sana-
varman I at Vat Pé,* and the inscriptions of Iéanavarman |
and Bhavavarman (II?) at Phnom Bayang.°®

The script of this new inscription from Fu-nan is nearer
that of Gunavarman dating at the latest from the second
half of the 5th century, than that of Rudravarman who is
posterior to 614 A.D., the date of his accession.” To
take one point which may be considered as crucial, the
form of the ra, the new inscription clearly marks an
intermediate stage ‘between the two preceding inscriptions.

3 In an additional note (BEFEO., XXXI, p. 695) I have shown that
the archaic form of na survived even under Iéanavarman I, but it seems
to have completely disappeared under Jayavarman I.

4 Published by A. Barth, dnetsvans sanskrites du Cambodge,
p. 21 (No. I).

5 Ibid, p. 47 (No. Vu, ’

6 Ibid., p. 31. (No. V) and G. Geedte, Inscriptions du Genbodge,
Hanoi, 1937, p. 252, pl. CCLXXX,

TP, eyed Le Fenn BEFEO., IU, Pe 294.
Plate XI.

]GIS., 1937.

Inscription of Jayavarman

(Fu-nan, Cambodia)

[To face page 118]

FE inne
A NEW INSCRIPTION FROM FU-NAN 119

In the inscription of Gunavarman, the left lower stroke
of ra is generally shorter than ithe right one, and
where it has the same height, it terminates at the top with
a slender stroke which does not cling to the box-head
surmounting the right. lower stroke. In the inscription of
Rudravarman, the character ra has two lower strokes equal
and united at the top by a horizontal stroke derived from
the ancient box-head. Now, in the new inscription we
come across the two forms: the form with unequal lower
strokes appears six times (line I:ksiroda ; 1. 3:ambhoruho;
], 7: nagare; 1. 8: racitam; |. 9: rudrani, harasya) ;
and the form with equal lower strokes appears nine times
(l. 2: racana; 1. 4: rdjfiim, raksatu; 1. 6: drstir; L. 7:
kurumba; 1. 10: rahite 1. 15: rdjfiaé, priyatara; 1. 18:
drdmam). This intermediate position of the inscription
of Jayavarman of Fu-nan is precisely what may be expected
of a document going back to the reign of the predecessor of
Rudravarman.

If my deductions are correct, and if the inscription
discovered by Mon. Dalet inthe province of Treang dates
actually from Jayavarman of Fu-nan, it is probable that its
author, the great queen, the principal spouse of a king, is
the person whose son was turned out for the benefit of
Rudravarman, the elder son born of a concubine.* Just
like the palaeography, the Visnuite character of the docu-
ment connects it with the inscription of Gunavarman and
separates it from the Buddhist inscription of Rudravarman.
We are, therefore, justified in asking whether this Guna-
varman, son of the king, who was still young when this
inscription was composed,? was not the legitimate heir
of Jayavarman and was subsequently turned out for the
benefit of his elder brother, but this is only a possibility
which I content myself with indicating en passant.

9 Cf. stanza VII of the inscription’ of, Thép-Mudi. OSES

120 G. CEDES

TEXT
I. (t) yufijan yogam atarkitan kam api yalh*|ksiroda-
Saiyyagrhe”®
(2) Sete Segabhujahgabhogarpeantpatyyetkapratha:
Sritah
(3) k[u] ksiprantasamaéritatribhuvano nabhyutthitam-
bhoruho

(4) x [ajliflim]™ érijayavarmmano™ gramahisim sa
svaminim raksatul|

il. (5) kulaprabhavati ndmna prabhavat kulavarddhini
(6) drstir ekeva ya drsta = jayena jayavarmmana ||

we eae

lf. (7) vipranam bhavanam kurumbanagare pra -- ~-
eee
(8) krtva yam pratimam suvarnnaracitam - -~- - >
(9) karyyanamvyasane nimagnamanas-- -—--~ =
(10) bhoge saty api naiva bhagarahite --~— -.~ =
IV. (11) Sakrasyeva gaci nrpasya dayita svahe [va] sapta
-{recisah]

(12) rudraniva harasya lokavidita s4 Srir iva Sripateh
(13) bhiiyas sahgatam icchati nrpatina gri-~- -~~ =="*
(14) laulyam viksya bhuvi ériyas ca bahudha ca - ~ -

ba eel

V: (15) rajfiaé érijayavarmmana”™* ' priyatara e-wen-e Se
(16) krtva bandhujanafica saukhyasahitam vi -~- -~=
(17) jfiatva bhogam anityabudbudasamam sa -~- -~ ~~
(18) dramam satatakam dlayayutam --~~--~— =

TRANSLATION

I. May he who, absorbed in undesigned meditation,
reposes in the sleeping-chamber which is the Ocean
of milk, lying upon the bed which is the arrangement

10 Read °gayya?

11 One rather expects rajiias, but the & of Si being single, rajiiim is
the only possible restoration.

12 [The sign. for avagraha does not appear.—Ed. ]

13. The last character is almost certainly a na. The lost name could
not be Jayavarman which. does. not suit the metre.

14 soy the  Sersele character stand. for the upadhmaniyah? Ed.}

gee
FS

If.

IV.

A NEW INSCRIPTION FROM FU-NAN 121

of curls of the serpent Sesa, may he who gathered the
three worlds within the bounds of his stomach and
who has a lotus springing from his navel, protect the
great queen, the principal spouse of Sri Jayavarman.
By name Kulaprabhavati, making her family (kula)
prosper through her majesty (prabhadvat), she was
prized by Jayavarman as the only doctrine on account
of his victory (over others).

an abode of Brahmanas in the town of Kurumba...
having made an image adorned with gold......with
the mind plunged in the ill-success of actions......even
then there was enjoyment, not devoid of happiness.
Reputed in the world as the spouse of the king, as
Saci is that of Sakra, Svaha is that of Fire, Rudrani
of Hara, and Sri of Sripati, ardently desiring her union
with the king Sri....... having many times considered
the inconstancy of Sri on earth......

Dearer to the king Sri Jayavarman.....-having taken
for her friend and being filled with happiness......
having realised that enjoyment is like an ephemeral
bubble......(she built) a hermitage with a tank and a
dwelling house........- : |

Hanoi
(Translated by U. N. Ghoshal)

Three Indo-Javanese Ganga Images

By Dr. F. M. ScHNiTcER

In the art of North India the images of the river-
goddesses Ganga and Yamuna occupy an important place.
During the Middle Ages and even many centuries after
the Muhammadan conquest temple gates were decorated
with these images, while the Buddhists also placed them
in their shrines.

During the late Middle Ages images of Ganga, designed
for independent worship, are met with chiefly in the
plains of the Lower Ganges. The Tantras adopted and
established the worship of Ganga asa goddess by formulat-
ing its ritual. Ganga was to be recognized and represent-
edas the ultimate goal of salvation (Parama gatih) in a

country noted for accurate philosophical thought and for a-
knowledge of the real sources of ‘salvation in accordance

therewith.

According to Akshay Kumar Maitra, who devoted a fine
article to this subject in Ripam (1921), this development
evidently took place in the Tantrika region and coincided
approximately with the late mediaeval art of the Gaudian
Empire of Bengal. Royal grants of the Pala kingdom show
that while the capital was transferred from one place to
another, it was always located on the Ganges or in its
vicinity. It is this age and the zone influenced by the culture
of this kingdom. which have given us the best examples of
the Ganga image intended for special worship.

It is less well-known that Ganga images also occur
in Indo-Javanese art.. In this article are published two
illustrations (Pls. XIV and XV) of a very beautiful Ganga
image found in Papar, Kediri (East. Java). It is four-armed
and carries in the upper “right hand extending backwards
a litga on a lotus, i in. 2 the upper left a iat in the lower

%
ti

“ wise —
Plate XU.

tish M: useum, London)

t

(Br

To face page 122]

[
Plate XII.

is)

S
&
Ry
n
»

4

Ganga
(Adusée Guime

A

[To face page 122]

IGIS., 1937.

[To face page 122]

A. Ganga
(Papar, Java)

Plate XIV.

St

JGIS., 19 Plate XV.

wo
Qi

B. Ganga
(Papar, Java)

[To face page 122]

THREE INDO-JAVANESE GANGA IMAGES 123

right a rosary and in the lower left a kumbha. Back of the
feet lies a crocodile with lifted tail.

Thirteen years ago Dr. Stutterheim called attention to a
Javanese Ganga image in the British Museum, London, and
another in the Musée Guimet, Paris.‘ Photos of these
remarkable antiquities are here reproduced for the first
time (Pls. XII and XIID.?

When these images are compared, it becomes evident
that all three originated in East Java and were made
probably during the 14th century. On the pedestal of the
London image a few figures are still faintly visible, which
Dr. Stutterheim interpreted as 128. The image was thus
made between 1358 and 1368 A. D.

The Papar image far surpasses the other two in beauty-
The latter represent a thin, emaciated goddess standing on
a crocodile, between two tall lotus stems. The London
figure has also a crude halo.

Apparently these three are death-images, considered
as appropriate resting-places for the redeemed souls on
account of their relation to the Ganges, the mighty river of
the dead, which opens the way to celestial bliss. |

According to Maitra, the worship of Ganga with clay
image still prevails in Bengal, preserving a continuity which
has disappeared from Orissa and other neighbouring pro-
vinces. I would also call attention to the fact that two
bronze images of the goddess, with a crocodile, which
also evidently represent Ganga, have been found in
Nalanda® and elsewhere’. :

The first mention of the name Ganga is in the rock ins-

1 App. Royal Institate, 1924, pp. 296, 298.

2 For permission to publish these photos, 1 am indebted to the
courtesy of the Netherlands-Indies | Axchicological Service, the British
Museum and the Musée Guimet. ;

3 Ann. Progress Report of the Arhaieolesieal Sroey of Indi, Conta ,
Circle, 1920-21, p. 47.

4 Bhattasali, Iconography of Buddhist on: Brahmanical Sela in
the Decca Museum, pp.. Li cae! i. LXVILE

124 F. M. SCHNITGER

cription of Tuk Mason the mountain Merbabu (Middle Java),
chiselled about the year 650. It appears next in the
Safijaya inscription of 732.5 An East Java inscription of
1486 mentions a priest, Gangadhara‘®; it is possible that
his wife is immortalized in the London or the Paris image,
The Papar image is so large and so beautiful that it must
represent a queen.

Leiden

5 JGIS., 1936, pp. 172-173, ie |
6 Ria "inden Jeoadneche  Gechiedeni, p. 450.

Two Sodhisativa Images from Ceylon
and Srivijaya |

By Devaprasad Ghosh

Sometime ago while dealing with the sources of the art of
Sri-Vijaya, in the pages of this Journal, ] had hoped
further discoveries would illumine the complex but fasci-
nating problem, of Greater Indian art.’

Recently a striking image of Bodhisattva (Pl. XVI, fig. 1).
has been discovered on the site of an ancient monastery
called Situlpavuva in Ceylon.? My previous arguments in
favour of South Indian influence on certain works of art
found in Palembang, Sumatra, will, now | believe, appear
conclusive to scholars after a study of this, new and convin-
cing graphic document. _

A comparison between the Ceylonese image and another
from Palembang® (Pl. XVI, fig. 2) will be profitable in this
connection. The material and iconography are the same.
Both of them are standing stone statues in the round and the
weathered miniature effigy of the Buddha represented in the
head dresses of both figures help us in identifying them as im-
ages of the Bodhisattva Avalokiteévara. There is again a close
identity in style illustrated by the elongated head-dress, rect-
angular outline of the faces marked by fleshy cheeks, heavy
chins and straight lines of the forehead, broad sloping
shoulders and expariding chest, narrow waist gliding imper-
ceptibly into tapering hips and smooth slim lower limbs.
Both of them, are characterised’ by general suppleness, ex-
treme simplicity and inherent vigour. The stiffness and rigi-

1 JGIS., Vol. Wl, No. L p. 56. 2.

2 S. Paranavitana, Recent Archaeological Work in » Cefn, Iain
Arts and Letterc, Vol. XI, No, 1; Pl. Hl, fig. (a).

_3 Annual Bibliography, Kern nites 19315 #L xa, “a

126 DEVAPRASAD GHOSH

dity of pose has been cleverly relieved by a pleasing emphasis
on curves which are more pronounced and undulating in the
Ceylonese example. The Sumatran parallel is slightly thick-
set and the face a little heavy and flat with eyes downcast.
However, if we leave out the faces, whose peculiarities are
due to the difference of the racial stamp, the similarity of
treatment of the rest of the body, even to minute details e.g,
the clinging transparent drapery with wavy fringe and angular
corners is remarkable to a degree in both examples.

In my previous papers on “The Early Art of Sri-Vijaya’”*
and ‘“‘The Sources of the Art of Sri-Vijaya’*® | have attempt-
ed to show the apparent influence of the Pallava art of
South India on the Palembang Bodhisattva. Dr. R. C.
Majumdar, while discussing the stylistic connections of this
particular image, remarked: “‘In opposition to the views of
Dr. Bosch and Dr. Krom, that Southern India exercised no
influence of any importance on the art of Sri-Vijaya,
Mr. Ghosh holds that this image of Avalokiteévara is almost
an echo of the monumental Pallava reliefs of the 7th century
at Mamallapuram. Here, again, the resemblance is only super-
ficial. The figure is no doubt a remarkable one and possesses
certain traits of classic Gupta art.......... it is premature to
draw any definite conclusions about the particular school
from which it originated.’"*

Now let us see what Mr. Paranavitana thinks of the
Ceylonese Bodhisattva. ““The image is interesting’, he
observes, ‘“both from, the artistic and the iconographic points
of view, and. must be classed among the best products of
Simhalese: plastic art .....,...In style the sculpture shows
affinities with the Pallava schowl of art. Ju

In the case of the Sumatran Bodhisattva, except for the
down-cast eyes, aoe traits are conspicuous by their absence.

4 J.G.LS., Vol. I, ‘No. L pp. 3138.
5 ibid., Vol. Il, No. 1, pp. 50-56,

6 R. C. Majumdar, Origin of the. Ei. of $1i-Vijaya, ingens
June, 1935, p. 77. 0.

7 Indian Aris ahs Later, Val xl, No. Lp. 28

JGIS., 1937 Plate XVI

1. Bodhisattva 2. Bodhisattva
(Situlpavuva, Ceylon) (Palembang, Sumatra)

[By courtesy of Arch. Surv. of Ceylon]
[To face page 126]

TWO BODHISATTVA IMAGES FROM CEYLON & SRIVIJAYA 127

Modelling is perceptibly flat and subdued in both the sculp-
tures from, Ceylon and Sumatra in contrast to classic Gupta
idiom; while the peculiar clear-cut definition of features
characterising Gupta plasticity is also missing.

Such profound kinship between the Bodhisattvas from the
two islands, is due probably to their having been influenced
by the same common source of art,viz., the Pallava School.
But it is more likely that the Sumatran sculpture was inspired
by direct contact with the Ceylonese prototypes.

Calcutta University

COMMENT & CRITICISM

Siddhayatra
By. K. A. Nilakanta Sastri ,

The expression Siddhaydirad occurs in five inscriptions
from Indonesia and has given rise to not a little dis-
cussion. We may note the contexts in which this ex-
pression occurs before proceeding to discuss the different
interpretations of its significance.

I. In the inscription of Nhan-biéu the phrase occurs
twice in verses 8 and 1! which we read as follows:

VU. Yavadvipapuram bhipanujfidto’ natakarmmani

gatud yah pratipattisthah siddhaydtrdm samadgamat
Aio vibhavasampadam adhigatavan iti

XI. Yavadvipapuram bhiyah ksitipénujiaya — —

dvivdram api yo gatva siddhayaGtram upadgamat

“Ato yasmimé ca éri Bhadravarmmdavanibhujo......ksama-
yds Sudan Kumuovel ksetrani yo’ dhigatavgn iti

2. In the well-known inscription of Mahanavika
Buddhagupta from the Wellesley Province of the Malaya
Peninsula, we have the following line as read by Dr. B. Ch.
Chhabra :

Sarovena prakGrena sarvovasmin sarvvatha
SATUUGssereerneee .....- Siddhayatrah santu.’

3. In the inscription of Kedukan Bukit (Palembang) we
have the expression manalap siddhayGtra and Sri Vijaya-
jayasiddhayatra subhikga.

4. In the fragmentary inscription from Kotakapir
(Bangka)” we have only the letters Jayasiddha.

| BEFEO., 1911., p. 303.
2 Expansion of Hicks. Ayes culture during Pailava rule as evidenced

sai ‘inscriptions, JASB., ‘Letters, Vol. 1 1935.
ee ipl Secs P. 39. Pe, Si

SIDDHAYATRA . 129

5. Lastly in a number of inscribed loose stones discover-
ed by F. M. Schnitger in 1935 at Telaga Batu (Palembang)
we have the expression Jayasiddhaydtra sarva-satva.

Hiiber in editing the Nhan-biéu inscription translated the
expression siddhayairam updagamat by ‘acquired the science
of magic’ (acquérir la science magique). Dr. Majumdar*
considered this translation ‘far-fetched’ and offered the
translation ‘obtained credit by the success of his under-
taking.” Coedés in his edition of the Kedukan Bukit in-
scription adopted Hiiber’s view and translated siddhaydtra
by ‘puissance magique,’ and put forward a_ tentative
suggestion that it was a magical ritual accompanying a
declaration of political independence and compared it with
the phrase apdsta bali bandhana of the inscription of
Jayavarman Il of Kambuja.® He also said: ‘‘siddhaydtra,
more correctly siddhiydtra,® designates a voyage or pilgri-
mage from which one returns endowed with supernatural
powers. It is this sense which the word has in the inscrip-
tion of Nhan-biéu and also in the inscription of Kedukan
Bukit according to which the king embarked on a boat
for acquiring magical power in a place which unfortunately
the text does not specify.’”? 7

Krom in his Hindoe-Javaansche Geschiedenis® ats,
accepted the interpretation that the siddhaydtra of the king
of Sri Vijaya was the journey (in a boat) for obtaining magi-
cal power, and he suggested that this siddhaydira related to
the foundation of the. kingdom of Sri Vijaya, that in any
case it commemorated a’ fact of the utmost importance to
the State. Dr. Chhabra considers ane interpretation of Hiiber,

4 R. C. Majumdar, Ancient Trae Colbijes in the Far East, Wal: i
Compa, Bk. Ill, Inscriptions of Campa, Pp. 134, n: 3. i; = jars es

5 BEFEO., 1930, p. 35, n. 1 and, p. 53, Be Te hae ar:

6 This distinction between siddha and. siddhi sthich Oredde ae
following Monier-Williams’ Digtionary - appears ‘unnecessary, _be-
cause both the forms are emer employed ‘the same sense accord-
ing to Resins 3.3.1. oe his rk 4

130 - Kk. A, NILAKANTA SASTRI

accepted by Coedés and Krom, and as we shall see
presently, by Stutterheim also, as exceedingly improbable,
and prefers Dr. Majumdar’s interpretation. But the value
of his discussion lies in his having drawn attention to two
passages from the Paficatantra and the Jatakamdla where
this expression occurs. Even before the publication of
Dr. Chhabra’s thesis Qoedés had occasion to discuss the
views put forward in it.” He expressed himself as quite
willing to believe that the expression siddha-ydtra
might well mean ‘successful in voyage’ in most of the
contexts under reference including the literary texts
cited by Dr. Chhabra, but he felt a difficulty in accepting so
weak an interpretation for the phrase in the Kedukan Bukit
inscription where it occurs twice, once in the beginning and
again at the end of very significant contexts. He said:
“Que dans le textes Sanskrits cités dans I’inscription de
Buddhagupta et méme dans celle de Nhan-biéu, le mot
siddhayGtré n'‘ait que le sens assex banal que lui attribue M.
Shastri, je le crois volontiers. Mais dans l’inscription de
Palembang, le sens doit etre beaucoup plus fort. On notera
en effet que le mot siddhaydGtra, y apparait deux fois, au
début et 4 la fin. Sil ne s’agit pas de magie,...et je ne tiens
pas beaucoup 4 cette interpretation qui n'est pas trés satis-
faisante..., il doit s’agir de la réussite d’une  entreprise,
peut-étre -aventureuse, en tout cas assez importante pour
mériter d’étre exactment datée et commémorée par une
inscription sur pierre.’”

Lastly Stutterheim in discussing the inscribed stones
discovered by Schnitger writes.a very interesting note on
the expression siddhayatra :*°

“On the significance of this expression opinion is divided.
In my opinion these different points of view can be frecon-
ciled by ne translation a ‘pilgrimage of victory’, that is to say,

9 ‘BEFEO., uth XXXII, PP. 1003.4,
10 Qudhiedkundige oondsien in Palembang door F. M. Schnitger,
Bilage 4, THEN. over de citer Aeris: 8 door W, F, Shuttericint,

SIDDHAYATRA 131

a pilgrimage on which one sets out to obtain the magic
power necessary for a victory, though it is possible that in
using this expression men did not realise any more the
magic character of the word siddha {read siddhi). The
expression siddhayatrad or siddhiydtra designates according
to lexicons a pilgrimage undertaken for obtaining something
which is produced by supernatural means. [ do not think,
as Gcedés does, that such a thing should necessarily be
magical power, for there is some difference between seek-
ing barakat {as I would compare this with Javanese usages}
and the acquisition of magical power as it is practised at
Bali by means of tantric itreatises. The prefixing of the
word Jaya, ‘victory’, makes it probable that it is a case of
princes proceeding to a particular holy place in search of a
blessing needed for a victory (or ‘success’, for Jaya need
not always stand for victory in war). The expression ‘Sri-
Vijaya-jayasiddhaydtra’ of the inscription of Kedukan Bukit
may then signify that the prince in question had completed
in the place where the charter is found (Palembang), a_
pilgrimage needed for victory over Sri-Vijaya. If this inter-
pretation is correct, it becomes self-evident. that. there can
be no question of foundation of the kingdom of Srivijaya as
some have thought. Voedte has already raised a well-—
founded doubt on this point.” 2
Commenting on this note of | Stutterheim, Coedés has
observed ™ that this explanation of siddhayatra as a pilgri-
mage to a holy place in search of. barakat i is new, and it is
possible that it brings us very near to the solution of the
problem posed by the enigmatic text of the Kedukan Bukit |
inscription. Qcedés also observes very properly that it
is necessary to prove otherwise. than by simple affirmation |
that the object of the pilgrimage was to obtain a victory
over Srivijaya. ‘May not Stivijaya-jaya’, he asks, sear
also a victory of Srivijaya?” and adds, tly,
question is” important, On ‘this’ last

|) BEFEO., 1935, Pe 380, poe

132 | K. A. NILAKANTA SASTRI

Coedés, one may at once say that until Dr. Stutterheim
proves the new identification of Srivijaya that he has ten-
tatively put forward, we shall be inclined to answer Coedds’
question in the affirmative, and treat the Kedukan Bukit
inscription as a record commemorating the beginning of an
expansionist policy in the history of the kingdom of S:-
yijaya.

Except for a passing doubt in the mind of Coedés affér
he read the thesis of Dr. Chhabra, there has been remark-
able unanimity among the epigraphists working at first hand
on the inscriptions of Indonesia that siddhaydtr® is a
reference to something mystical or magical in character,
Coedés himself has once more gone back to his original
position after reading Stutterheim’s note on the inscribed
stones of Telaga Batu.

We may now proceed to consider if the literary
texts mentioned by Dr. Chhabra render this meaning
either far-fetched or difficult of acceptance. The texts
are. from the Paficatanira and the Jatakamala of
Aryaéira, both works most probably anterior to the earliest _
of the inscriptions from Indonesia mentioning siddhayatra”.
In the Pajficatantra the expression occurs in the second tale
of Book V. This is a tale of four treasure-seekers, a fact
which seems to have led Dr. Chhabra to interpret the sen-
tance vayam siddhayatrikah ina rather summary fashion in-
to .“‘We are fortune-hunters’’*. But as he himself recog-
nises ‘a yogin does play a réle in the story and there is men-
tion of a sort of occultism too’.. He does not explain how
he gets the meaning ‘fortune-hunters’ out of the phrase
siddhayatrikah. His own statements on this phrase at p. 19
do not seem to warrant this interpretation. He is right

2 See Reith, History eH) Sanskrit Lderatire, pp. 68 and 248 for the
probable dates of Aryagara and the Paficatantra.

13 op, cit, p. 20, It is perhaps worth while noting that the sentence
coears at page 264 of Hevtel’s edition of the Pafcatantra, not 204 as Dr,
Chhabra’s note Be on Pe 19 ki ae

SIDDHAYATRA . i33

when he says that there is ‘‘hardly any ground for changing
the term siddhayatrikah into siddhiyatrikah as the lexico-
graphers have evidently done’’, but that is because there
is really no difference between siddha and siddhi in the con-
text. The rdle of the yogi? and occultism in the story of the
four treasure-seekers willbe seen to be very much greater, in
fact to be of theessence of the story, when one reads it in the
original. Four poor Brahmins, very friendly to one another,
got disgusted with their poverty, held a discussion as to the
best means of quickly becoming rich, and having rejected
a number of secular means of obtaining wealth, finally
decide upon seeking their fortune in foreign lands. After
reaching the land of Avanti they bathe in the Sipra river,
worship Mahakala, and as they come out of the temple a
yogi Bhairavananda meets them. He takes them to his
matha and then asks them where they were going and for
what purpose. The original is this:
Kuto bhavantah/ koa vd ydsyatha
kim prayojanam/  tatas-tair-abhihiiam-
vayam siddhayatrikah / tatra yasyamah.:
yatra dhanatrptir mrtyur od bhavisyati.

The facts that they describe themselves as siddhaya-
trikah after they meet the yogi, and that they meet the yogi
only after worshipping Mahakala, must be firmly grasped.
Then they ask the yogi for means of getting wealthy and
they do so in the following terms: _

tat kathyatém asmakam kascit dravyopayah /

vivarapravesah/ Sakinisadhanam f $masanaseva/

mahaémamsa-vikraya-prabhrtir-va [tvam ca adbhuta-
_siddhih srauase/ eayam ca atisdhasikah|

i. Gey 3 5
‘Tell us some means of gerune money, entering: a cave,
gaining the grace of Sakini, practice at crematoria, sale
of human flesh, and what no - You are reputed | to he

Now, one. Sussedon if this i is I
for attaining one e's ‘sends, whe it is

134 K. A. NILAKANTA SASTRI

is that the yogi gives to each of the gisyas, as they are called
hereafter, a siddhavarti, which they are to carry and walk
along in a northerly direction in the lands beyond the Hima-
layas. The fall of the siddhavarti on the earth will be an
indication to each of the place containing the treasure he
seeks. |

In the Jatakamala the reference is to the Suparaga
Jataka. Here again a study of the original narrative makes
it clear that itis not success in any secular sense that is
commemorated in the name Suparaga, but success due to
possession of mystic power. It should be noted that it is a
Bodhisattva who is the nausdrathi whose navigation was so
successful that he was named Suparaga, The text is:

tasya parama siddha yGtratvét-
supdraga ityeva ndma babhiva:
but as if to make it clear that this power was not a power of
the body or mere technical skill, but that it was something
occult and mystic in character, we read a few sentences later
that even in his old age the sea-traders longing for a pros-
perous voyage applied to him who was well-known to be an
auspicious person; and.the conversation between the aged
‘Suparaga and the sea-traders leaves no room for doubt that
the aid they. sought from Suparaga was mystical in
character :

“So it once happened ey merchants who trafficked
with Goldland, coming from Bharukaccha, longing for a
prosperous voyage, touched at the town of Suparaga and
requested that Great Being to embark with them. He
answered them: ;

“What kind of assistance do you think to find in me?
Old age, having got power. over me, makes my eyesight
diminish: in consequence of the many toils I have endured,
my attentiveness has grown weak, and even in my bodily

' occupations I feel my. strength almost gone.’

“The merchants said: ‘We are well acquainted with the
bodily. state of Your Hononr.: But. this being so, and taking
ie into account our in ability. for labour, we will not cause»

SIDDHAYATRA ~ 35

hardship to you nor give any task unto your charge, but we
want you for some other reason.

‘The dust touched and hallowed by your lotus-like feet
will be auspicious to our ship and procure her a happy
course over yonder sea, even if assailed by great danger.
With this in mind we have applied to you."**

It seems clear therefore that siddhaydira in the Indo-
nesian inscriptions is a technical phrase with unmistakable
referenee to the acquisition of magic power of some sort or
other. Even in the Mahanavika inscription there should be
no difficulty in applying the same sense considering that the
Suparaga Jataka furnishes a conspicuous instance in litera-
ture of merchants seeking magic means to ensure success for
their enterprises.

It may not be without interest to note, flnally, that in
Indian Purdnic literature, a number of ksetras (sacred
spots) are mentioned as siddha- or siddhi-ksetras, where —
human endeavour is easily crowned with success. Thus
we read in the Mahabharata”

Yatra ganga maharaja sa degastat-tapovanam|

siddhiksetram ca taj-jfeyam ganga-titasamanvitar|| ,
and this verse appears in the Matsya Purana (I. 10. 12) with —
the variations: mahdabhaga for’ ‘maharaja, tapodhanam for
tapovanam-—clearly a mistake, and siddhaksetram for
siddhi-ksetram. Again a siddhakgetram is mentioned in |
the Vayu Purana (ch. 23)..as located on’ the top ‘of the
Himalaya : :
Himavacchikhare caiva mahébuiige aati
Siddhaksetram mahapunyam bhavigyati mahdlayam (v.175)
siddhaksetre mahdpunye deoaddnacaptijite | i :
iindned siikios, punye A 182).

14 Aryabiira,: The Jatakemal t

Serasvatt | in K See
136 K. A. NILAKANTA SASTRI

Lastly, in the Brahmanda Purana we read of a siddhi-
ksetra in Amarakantaka, where, it is said,
alpena tapasa siddhim gamisyanti na samsayah"
It is possible that a pilgrimage to some ksetra like this to
ensure success in any undertaking came to be called

siddhiyatra or siddhaydatra.

Madvas University

N63. 1341

On the identification of a few Indonesian
Sculptures

By Jitendra Nath Banerjea
A.

Dr. F. M. Schnitger has drawn the attention of scholars
to a very beautiful image found in Papar, Kediri (East
Java) in the present issue of this Journal (Above, Pls. XIV
and XV). It is a four-armed female figure; its upper right
and left hands carry a liga on a lotus and fly-fan, while
its lower right and lower left hands hold a rosary and a
water-vessel respectively. The figure stands on a double-
petalled lotus (vigvapadma) and just behind her legs is
shown a huge amphibian reptile with uplifted tail. On
one side of the back-slab (prabhavali) of the image are —
carved a few lotus stalks and leaves. On the basis of Dr.
Stutterheim’s identification of two reliefs—one in the British
Museum and the other in the Musée Guimet, Paris, the
photographs of which are also reproduced (Above, Pls. XII
and XIII) along with that of the Papar’ image,—Dr.
Schnitger identifies the last. figure as that of Ganga. After
comparing these three images; he opines that all three origi-
nated in East Java and were made probably during the 14th
century A.D. He further remarks: that ‘apparently these
three are death images, considered an. appropriate. resting-
place for the redeemed souls on account of their relation to
the Ganges, the mighty river of the dead. By

But are we quite sure about this identification of any one
of these three reliefs? In. the c case of the © Paar: image, the

the vase. “These weal = i

138 : _. JITENDRA NATH BANERJEA

Ganga; the Indian images of Ganga from the Gupta period
onwards are almost invariably two-handed and they figure as
dvGradevataés. The chief attribute held in their hands
is mainly a water-pot and these figures are characterised
by their makara-vehicle. We get, no doubt, descriptions of
four-handed Ganga-images in very late texts such as the
Puragcaryamnava and the Pranatosini Tantra noticed by late
Mr. A. K. Maitreya in his paper on Ganga’. But, as the
following couplets culled from the above texts will show,
the attributes mentioned there are not the same as are to be
found in the Papar relief. One couplet runs as follows:
Caturbhujam irinetrém ca sarvdbharanabhisitém |
Ratnakumbhaéitambhojavarad&bhayasatkaram ||
The other dhyéna mantra which has more meagre iconogra-
phic details runs thus:
Suripdm cGranetram ca candrayutasamaprabham |
Camarairvijyamananiu évetachatropasobhitam \|
2 Suprasanndm suvadanam karunardranijantaram |
Sadhaplavitabhiprsthamardragandhanulepandém |.
_ Trailokyanamitim Gangam devadibhirabhistutam ||
‘The first of the two above extracts lays down that two of
the four hands of the figure of Ganga should show abhaya
and varada poses,while thetwo remaining hands should hold
ratnakumbha (jewel-pot) and sitambhoja (white lotus). The
Visoakarmavatara Sastra describes the image of Ganga as
one of the deities, attendants of Varuna, the other one
being Yamuna. However, these texts do not help us in

the correct identification of the Papar- relief. One or two
weg details may tally, but these are not its most outstanding

: features. It must be observed here that we have no means
of identifying these Indonesian reliefs except with the help
of their Indian, proto-types and closely parallel Indian icono-

: graphic texts. The beautiful Ganga image in the collection

of the Narendra Research Society’ s Museum at Rajshahi is
tio-handed and as. her hands are broken there is no

IDENTIFICATION OF A FEW INDONESIAN SCULPTURES 139

way of determining the objects held in them. Dr. Schnitger
has referred to a Nalanda bronze figure of the goddess
which has been described by Hirananda Sastri as follows:
“Some unknown goddess (534, high), standing four-armed
with halo broken at right side; the left upper hand seems
to hold a bough or a branch of a tree, objects in other
hands not clear; one indistinct animal sits at each side
under an ornamental branch (>); in front of pedestal, two
makaras or fishes are shown rising up towards the deity;
a devotee sits to the right side in adoration’’’. This bronze
figure may or may not represent the river-goddess, but its
attributes which are indistinct do not help us much in iden-
tifying the relief in question. Another two-handed bronze
figure of a goddess described by Hirananda Sastri in the
same publication’ requires mention here: ‘An unidentified
figure may represent Ganga standing on a makara, though
the symbols are not at all distinct’. Sastri remarks at the
same time, ‘If the vehicle can stand for a conventional
elephant, she may represent Indrani, though that will be too
bold a conjecture’. So we see, neither iconographic texts
nor extant reliefs from India help us in identifying the
Papar image as that of Ganga. a aa ae
An attempt may now be made for the “proper. identifica-
tion of the relief. Certain iconographic texts, though
compiled at a comparatively late period, as well as certain |
extant reliefs of a fairly early date ‘would help us in throw- =
ing some light on its correct identity. While describing
six different varieties of Gauri images, Mandana, the 15th”
century compiler of the text called Riamandana, describes
the images of Parvati, Sri and Totala in this manner?” oo ea
Aksasiiram Sioam devam Ganadhyakgam kamandalum| >
Paksadvaye’ gnikunde ca mirtissa Parvati smrid || |
| Aksasiitram fatha Padmamabhayam ca varam tatha ;
Godhasandasrita miirtirgrhe pi iya Sriye(a) sadé ||

Circle, 1921,-.pe- Al.

140 JITENDRA NATH BANERJEA

Salaksasatradandaméca vibhrand gvetacamaram |

Totala kathité ceyam sarvapapaprandéini || *

These verses also occur in a slightly altered manner in
the eighth chapter of Devatamiirtiprakaranam; verses 4 and
7 by the same compiler Mandana enumerate twelve different
varieties of the images of Gauri, viz. Uma, Parvati, Gaui,
Lalita, Sri, Krsna, Haimavati, Rambha, Savitri, Trikhanda(>),
Totala and Tripura. In the Répamandana, however,
six varieties of Gauri, viz,, Uma, Parvati, Sri, Rambha,
Totala and Tripura are mentioned. Curiously enough,
Dr. Schnitger calls attention to Dr. N. K. Bhattasali’s
enumeration of the varieties of Gauri images and the plates
in illustration thereof in a footnote of his article, and still is
of opinion that these images represent Ganga. Dr. Bhatta-
sali has rightly described these as varieties of Gauri images,
though he has failed to notice that the Rapamandana text
speaks of six and not three varieties of Gauri images under
- the heading Gauryd mirtayah and that Sri is the name of
one of these varieties. The same text, while referring to the
‘mounts of Gauri and others, contains :

Godhasan& bhaved Gauri lilaya hamsavahana’ |

| Simharitdhé bhaved Durga matarah svasvavahandh ||

From the above-mentioned iconographic extracts we
_ find that the images of Gauri, the consort of Siva, should
have an alligator (godhad) as her vehicle; while the three
particular varieties of Gauri, viz., Parvati, Sri and Totala
should hold in their four respective hands beginning from
lower right, rosary, Siva (i. e. the phallic emblem of Siva),
Ganapati, and vase. (Parvati) ; ; rosary, lotus, abhaya and
vara (Sri, who is ‘also described | as having an_ alligator
for her mount) ; trident, rosary, staff and a white chaurie
(Totala). IE we. try to understand the Papar relief with

4 Bopanna quoted by ce a Gaslnehe Rao in his romans
of Hindu Iconography, Vol. ‘I, Part , App. C., ps 120:
5 Should it be Totala,. for: from. the Y Rpaheragseay text we
learn that the goddess Te mls. bad a swan uot her rabies ee

IDENTIFICATION OF A FEW INDONESIAN SCULPTURES 141

the help of these texts, we find that it combines a few of
the iconographic features of all the three varieties in
itself: thus it has an alligator for her vehicle which is
the special mount of Gauri as well as of her Sri variety ;
it holds a rosary as well as the phallic emblem on lotus
which are the characteristic attributes of Parvati, and the
fly-whisk in her left hand shows her « connection with the
Totala variety of Gauri.

That the comparatively late texts mentioned above
were based on actual images and texts of a far earlier pe-
riod can be proved by a reference to a few comparatively
early Indian reliefs. In the Lankeévara of the Kailasa
grotto-temple (Elura), a relief-carving shows a goddess
standing between two fires, holding in her upper right hand
a lotus flower on which is placed ‘the phallic emblem of
Siva, and in her upper left hand another lotus flower with
a small figure cf Ganega on it; the objects in the two lower
hands are indistinct, but the right hand seems to have held ~
a rosary, while the left hand, a vase ; an alligator is shown
on the base of the relief®.. This Elura goddess can very
well be indentified as the Parvati variety of Gauri images
mentioned in the texts quoted above. Its similarity with
the Papar relief in some important iconographic details
should be noticed. Dr. Bhattasali mentions two images of
Parvati, ‘both lying in the mofussil’, one of which. can be
described thus: a crude black stone image of Parvati has in
her four hands, clockwise, a boon, a rosary with the linga, a
trident, ‘broken’ ; GaneSa and Karttikeya are respectively to
her right and left ; the mount of the goddess carved below
her lotus seat is a small alligator which according to the
author looks more like a squirrel. The other black stone.
image worshipped in a temple called Siv-vadi at the village
of Dasora near Manikeaii, mee Dacca, has in her hands.

ape ae sak

6 T. a Gopinath Reo,

142 JITENDRA NATH BANERJEA

clockwise, boon, rosary and liAga, trident and a vase’,
The Devi-image from Arial, P. 8S. Tangivadi, District Dacca,
reproduced by Bhattasali*® deserves notice here: the four-
armed goddess has her lower right hand in the varada pose
(with a rosary?), upper right hand holding a lotus flower,
with alinga carved a little above it, upper left holds a
trident and the lower left a water-vessel. Bhattasali who
classifies it as Gauri remarks thus: ‘The image is well-
proportioned and has a pleasant face, which reminds one
of Javanese sculptures’. Sculptures more or less similar to
the ones mentioned above can be found in the collection of
the Varendra Research Society’s Museum, Rajshahi and the
Indian Museum, Calcutta.

The depiction of an alligator as the mount of a variety of
Gauri was continued in Southern India till a comparatively
late period. T. A. G. Rao refers to an interesting composite
relief of Uma-Maheévaramirti at Haveri, Dharwar District,
Bombay Presidency, in which the left leg of the goddess
rests on the back -of an alligator.” j

A very interesting bronze image of a goddess diseayered
at Nalanda has.a definite bearing on the subject under
discussion. It will be necessary for us to quote at length
its description by Hirananda Sastri:’® ‘Bronze 44—Some
goddess (714°’ h.) standing, four-armed; r. lower hand
gone ; r- upper hand holds rosary, left upper holds'a bough
or branch of a tree above which a circular disc-like thing is
put. The halo shows the sun as well as the moon on it.
The lower left hand holds a vase. The umbrella is gone.
The pedestal on which the goddess stands is detached at
the ankles of the. deity. ‘Tt has four lotus buds at each
‘eee and a crocodile alligator) at the right foot of the

7 ‘Bhattasali, dpicgiaaky a ‘tis Buddhist and Brahmanical Scalp-
iures in the Dacca Museum, p. 202. a
8 Ibid., Plate LXVII, b. - :
© 9 T.ALG. Rao, Vol. Il, Part Ip PL XXXVI, fis te
0° “Pro eport of the Are nearer ae < Begs Covert

on the respective corners of the pedestal clearly indicate

to be depicted on her proper left. But the most remarkable

: seaiee

: images, ‘ani 2

IDENTIFICATION OF A FEW INDONESIAN SCULPTURES 143

goddess. To the proper right in front of the pedestal a
figurine of lion is shown on a projecting piece with left claw
raised. To the left a seated buffalo-like animal is similarly
shown.......’.. We fail, no doubt to see a liiga in the back
right hand of the bronze figure, but the rosary and the
vase in the upper right and lower. ‘eft hands respectively,
the crocodile or the alligator at the right foot of the goddess
as well as the lotus buds at each corner definitely prove that
it belongs to the class of divinities with which the Papar
relief is to be connected. The lion and buffalo-like animals

that it is closely associated with Durga.

We may now refer to the two reliefs, one in the collec-
tion of the British Museum and the other in that of the Musée
Guimet, which have been utilised by Dr.Schnitger in arriving
at his identification of the Papar relief. A brief description
of these two images will not be out of place here. The British
Museum figure (Above, Pl. XII) is that of a four-handed
emaciated goddess standing on a lotus which is placed on
the back of an alligator with uplifted tail ; the objects held.
by her hands are extremely indistinct (her right hands seem
to grasp a water-vessel anda skull) a scorpion appears to
be carved on her shrunken belly ; a tree (plantain?) seems. ;

feature as regards this i image is the: presence. of a dhyani-
Buddha-like figure just above her ; she seems to carry this
divine figure on her head. The Musée Guimet relief (Above
P]. XII) is a much corroded figure of a two-handed emaciated
goddess standing ona lotus- flower placed on the back of an ee
alligator with uplifted tail; her. left hand holds a bough of a
tree (or a lotus stalk?) . and her right hand a threée-pronged
object (a sala i she wears a Meade Barring t

144 JITENDRA NATH BANERJEA

his brief description of these two), we shall be justified in
going a step further and describing them as varieties of
Candiimages. The dhydni figure in the case of the first
relief can be explained by referring to Brahmanical reliefs
belonging to the Eastern School of Sculpture in India which
bear on or above their heads similar figures."

N.B.—The learned editor of this Journal drew my attention to these
interesting Indonesian reliefs and invited my opinion about them. I am

indebted to him for his kindly allowing me to examine the photographs,
as well as read Dr, Schnitger’s paper, before it was in print.

B.

Dr. F. M. Schnitger excavated at Poelo, on the northern
bank of the Panei river, Tapanoeli (Sumatra) a small
temple dating from the Ith or 12th century A. D. He
discovered five stone reliefs, representing a_ series of
dancing figures, some with human and others with animal
faces which originally decorated the towers of the struc- |
- ture. | Tn his brief account of these figures’* he remarks:
~ ‘Probably this Buddhist temple was the grave of some
royal personage and the reliefs portray his servants or
members of his family,’ He observes further, “Although —
Buddhistic in character, they are taken from Sivaite
theology in which the | world | originated in a heavenly
dance.”’

The sculptures hase to be ehicted more from the point
of view of their Sivaite proto-types than from that of
their present Buddhist connection, for this will ele us in
understanding their: real nature. They may or may not
‘portray ‘the servants or members of the family of some
royal personage,’ but they appear to be derived from
the Sicaganas, the pepe attendants of Siva, who are so

i sop ‘Tnbaaaiae image of Vien, pEsoire op. cit,, Pl. XXXIL.

ue Varendra Research Society, Appendices to Annual Report for 1928-29,

‘ 37 a 4, aud Plater vi
IDENTIFICATION OF A FEW INDONESIAN SCULPTURES 145

frequently represented in the Saiva shrines of northern
and southern India. Some varieties of the images of Siva
are attended by various ganas and bhiitas of different
forms shown in multifarious poses. singing and dancing.”
If we refer to a few Indian reliefs, both early and late,
we shall be able to light upon the undoubted proto-types
of these Sumatran sculptures. The remains of the dado
of the Siva temple (c. 6th cent, A. D.) excavated by the
late Mr. R. D. Banerji at Bhumara in the State of Nagod, in
Central India, contain numerous figures of these Sivaganas,
many among them with animal faces; they are shown in
various poses, some of them playing on musical instru-
ments and some others dancing in a vigorous manner.”
The relief carvings in the Sivaite shrines of Badami and
Elura in Western India contain among other subjects
the representations of these curious attendants of Siva.
The Ardhanariévara pane] in the Cave temple (No. I) at_
Badami bears on its lowermost section ‘small figures of
the same ganas, some dancing and others playing upon
different musical instruments’; the dancing pose of the
fourth figure from the extreme left in this panel very
closely resembles that of the figure no. 3 of the Poelo
sculptures." The large stone panel belonging to the
Rameégvara Cave temple at. Elura which depicts im a
remarkable manner the scene of marriage between - Siva
and Parvati, has in its lower part ‘a -row.of most humorous
ganas, some with animal faces, others with animal-
mouthed bellies’ shown in various POEs dancing, one
singing and engaged in various other activities.”

13, Nanaganasamayuktarm nanabhitasamakalam | “ae Nanarapodharait-, |
bhitairanekaih parivaritam/- Bherikakahadadyadhyoirganarytaraudhaléih/ /
T. A. Gopinatha Rao, op. cit., Vol. I, Pt: IL, App. B., p- Sts
extract from | Ueayhatitlce. @ South. Indian aprales: d. Pajala,

Sachi of India, Ne, 16, pp. BI
15. R. D, Banerji, The f
India Nov 8, Pl. ae fig ‘. BS

146 JITENDRA NATH BANERJEA

It is useless to multiply instances; a search among

: the numerous Saiva shrines both in the north and south

of India will reveal many such figures which could have

served as the prototypes. of these Sumatran sculptures.
ee Thus Dr. Schnitger’s description of these sculptures requires
| some modification. Incidentally we may remark that
figure no. 3'” which he describes ‘as a man in a dancing
pose of extreme abandon, an attitude found in Cambodia
but never in Java’, is depicted as engaged in a dance which
is a curious caricature of the lalata-tilaka mode of dance of

Siva'® ; similarly, the Poelo bull- (goat >) faced figure (no. 5)

up is dancing in a manner more or less suggestive of the

f talasamsphotita mode of dance of Siva.’® Figures 4 and 5

ra which have. been described by Dr. Schnitger respectively as

an elephant and a bull are really elephant and bull- (? goat)
faced human beings; the former has got its proto-type
in Ganapati, the chief of the ganas of Siva, and the ae
if it possesses a goat's or even an antelope’s head,

-: Naigamesa, an aspect of Subrahmanya-Karttikeya,”” ‘atho
is. represented in mediaeval pictures as a man with the
head of an antelope’.* | “

. The sculptures are, thus, extremely interesting | for
more reasons than one. Dr.. Schnitger was quite correct:
when he observed that these were’ taken from the Sivaite
theology and that their Indian proto-types must exist
somewhere in South India. As we have seen, these are

WT IOI, Vol. IV, NE: 1, Pl Vil.

‘ 18 CH. the. ‘Tirucchengattangudi wl Conjeevaram ngttamiirtia of

Siva, T. A. G. Rao, op. cit, vol. Hl, pp, 1, Pl, LXVII,
Borne a We A. G. Rao, Ibid., Pl. LXVIIL. ,

“20 CH. ‘Hopkins, | Epic Mythology, p. 230: ‘Chigamunda is some
“goat” form spitit identified with Skanda, who may himself be a leaping
wont in his first form’, a
2 G. Bithler on Mathura ‘Snip tates i in Epigraphia indica; Vol. IH,
145. for’ a comparatively. early goat-headed inscribed figure of Nemeso-
gett : its: Jain, setting, ‘see fbid. Phe Aa; the nsetiption reads

IDENTIFICATION OF A FEW INDONESIAN SCULPTURES 147

undoubtedly to be found not only in the south of India from
which these art-motifs migrated in early and mediaeval
times in course of its long contact with Suvarnadvipa, but
also in the north of India with which no possible early
Malayasian contact can be determined at present.

Calcutta University.

RR
sole

wk

Pate
Sees

aA eee

MISCELLANY

Hindus in Afghanistan, Persia and Russia in
1783

By D. B. Diskalkar

George Forster’s Travels gives an account of his j journey
from Bengal to England in 1782-84. Forster left Calcutta on
the 23rd of May 1782 and arrived at Benares on the 26th
August where he stayed till the Ilth December engaged in
‘an investigation into the mythology of the Hindoos’. As he
had ‘a conversant knowledge of the Marhatta language and
an acquaintance, though very trivial, with the Sanskrit,’

which he says ‘is a sonorous language abounding in pith and
conciseness’, he could do this in a short time as is seen from |

“e his sketches of Hindu mythology, published in his letters

written from Benares. Leaving Benares on the [2th Decem-
ber 1782 and passing by an overland route through various
places in Northern India, Kashmir, Afghanistan and Persia
and into Russia by the Caspian Sea he reached St, Peters-
burg on the 25th May 1784 and England in July 1784. His
notes on his day-to-day travels which are recorded in the
book are full of information and show that Forster was a
man of extraordinary courage, wonderful energy and keen
observation. As he was already well acquainted with the
Hindus and their religious and social customs he was parti-
cular to note everything about them that attracted his atten-
‘Hon during his travels in the non-Hindu countries. Al-
though most of the Hindus he met with were trading people »
specially from Multan, and consequently were more or less
floating bodies, there were some who had permanently
- settled in some places, courageously withstanding all the
- disabilities they were. frequently subjected to by the bigoted

! untr he account therefore of the fire-altar

HINDUS IN AFGHANISTAN, PERSIA AND RUSSIA IN 1783 149

maintained by them at Baku and of the Sannydsi making
the tour of the world will be read with special interest.
Below we give all those passages in the book which refer to
Hindus in foreign countries and which it is hoped will be
found interesting by students of Greater India history.

P. 90-~“The cities and ‘towns (in Afghanistan) are chiefly
inhabited by Hindoos and Mahometans of the Punjab, who
were established by the former princes of Hindostan to
introduce commerce and civilisation into their western pro-
vinces.”

P. 115— ‘At Kandahar’! are established many Hindoo
families, chiefly of Moultan and Rajepoot districts, who by
their industry and mercantile knowledge, have éssentially
augmented its trade and wealth.........The extensive range
of shops: occupied by Hindoo traders, with the ease and
contentment expressed in their deportment, affords a fair
testimony of their enjoying at Kandahar cme and protec«
tion.’

P, 125—"On the 23rd (Oaebe: 1783) a aE Ghurmow, in the _ :

desett, five fursungs.. This evening my persecuting compa-

nion left our party, and proceeded with some Hindoo traders”

to Fera, an Afghan town of some note,. lying about forty or
fifty miles to the south-west of Drauza’ ee iat Oh

P. 151—‘At Herat I found, . in two casita esaie about
one hundred Hindoo merchants, chiefly natives of Moultan,
who by the maintenance of a brisk commerce, and .extend-
ing a long chain of credit; have become valuable subjects to
the government; but discouraged. by. the insolent and often

oppressive treatment of the Persians, they are rarely:

induced to bring their women into this country. - . When the

Hindoos cross. the..Attock, they. usually put on th Pets of :

a northern Asiatic : being. seldom seen: without
coat and a ~~ cap.’

Ey ROSES Saat eee MeN

settee

Se ae a ee

serthuiiiesnasecom aes tuieaineron oe

fee are 5

BA ey Tats a a

aie

150 ___D, B, DISKALKAR

Lom nae AS Teel CRIS NAR ot

Mahometan is permitted to reside, and where they
conducted business without molestation or insult: and |
was not a little surprized to see those of the Bramin
sect, distinguished by the appellation of Peerzadah, a
title which the Mahometans usually bestow on the de-
scendants of their prophet. Small companies of Hindoos
are also settled at Musehid, Yezd, Kachan, Casbin, and
some parts of the Caspian shore; and more extensive
' Pee societies in the different towns of the Persian Gulf, where
they maintain a navigable commerce with the western coast
of India."

P. 256—‘A society of Moultan Hindsee: which has
long been established in Baku, contributes largely to the
circulation of its commerce; and with the Armenians,
they may be accounted the principal merchants of
Shirwan. The Hindoos, of this quarter, usually embark
at Tatta, a large insular town in the lower tract of the Indus,

whence they proceed to Bassorah, and, there accompany the
rss Ra@ravans which are frequently passing into Persia. Some |
‘also travel inland to the ‘Caspian Sea, by the road of
- Kandahar and Herat; but the number is small, and they -
- grievously complain of the oppressions and insults of the

Mahometans. ;
On the .3Ist_ of March, I visited the Atashghah, or place

& fire; and on making myself known to the Hindoo
u mendicants, who resided there, | was received among these
ak sons of Brimha as a brother; an appellation they used on

my hology, and. had visited their ‘most sacred places of
_ worship. © This religious retirement, where the devotees:
worship" their deity in. the semblance of fire, is a square
_ of about thirty: yards, surrounded with a low wall, and
contains many. apartments; i in each of whichis a small
: issuing: from * “the ground

ae

HINDUS IN AFGHANISTAN, PERSIA AND RUSSIA IN 1783 151

from Baku five Hindoos ; two of them were merchants of
Moultan, and three were mendicants; a father, his son,
and a Sunyasse. The last was a hale, spirited young
man, who, impelled by an equal alertness in mind and
body, blended also with a strong tincture of fanaticism,
was making, it may be termed, the tour of the world; for
he did not seem to hold it a matter of much concern whither
his course was directed, povided he was in motion.

The Hindoos at Baku had supplied his little wants, and
recommended him to their agents in Russia, whence he
said, he would like to proceed with me to England.
The Moultanee Hindoos were going to Astracan on a
commercial adventure merely, and would not have gone
a mile out of the road to have served God or man.
When I accused the Hindoos of polluting themselves by
drinking the cask-water, and preparing victuals in the
ship-kitchen, they observed, that they had already become
impure by crossing the forbidden river, beyond which all
discrimination of tribes ceased. Though spirituous liquors
are forbidden to the Hindoos, jt does not appear that the
use of bang, an intoxicating weed which resembles the
hemp in Europe, and is prepared either tee smoking or a
draught, is considered even by the most rigid a breach of
the law, for they drink it without reserve, and often to
excess.”

P. 300—‘The city of Netrncayl ig naaded to contain

about eighty thousand inhabitants. Exclusive of the.

Russians, there is a ‘numerous colony. of Nagayan
Tartars (the ancient people of the country), many Greeks,
Armenians, and Circassians, AOS Pe eae and a

~ small society of Hindoos.’
P. 303—‘In this city, Reichs occupies a mediate situa-~
tion between Asia and Eerepe there is perhaps a more’

abs

TE NGSH CS IGA rks AO TE gE

(Se LR Hr Sal ee

ont SES

peer

152 D, B. DISKALKAR

different sectaries united by the bonds of a common social
compact. The largest portion of the industry and adventure
which supports commerce of Astracan is contributed by the
Armenians.’

“The Hindoos also enjoy at Astracan very fair indul-
gence ; nor could they in the most celebrated places of
worship in India, perform their rites with more freedom.
They are not stationary residents, nor do they keep any of
their females in this city; but after accumulating a certain
property they return to India, and are succeeded by other
adventurers. Being a mercantile sect of their nation, and
occupied in a desultory species of traffic, they have neg-
lected to preserve any record of their first settlement, and
subsequent progress in this quarter of Russia ; nor is the
fact ascertained with any accuracy by the natives of
Astracan. In the karavensara alloted to them, which is
commodious and detached, they make their ablutions and
offer up their prayers, without: attracting even the curiosity
of the: Christians ; and they do not fail to gratefully contrast
so temperate a conduct with that of Persia, where their
religion, persons and prosperity, are equally exposed to the
attacks of bigotry and avarice.’

Historical Museum, Satara.

NOTICES OF BOOKS

Flamen-Brahman, par Georges Dumézil; Annales du
Musée Guimet. Biblothéque de Vulgarisation. Tome
cinquante-uniéme. Paul Geuthner, Paris, 1935.

In this little book of just over a hundred pages Mr.
Dumézil has started a very ingenious theory as to the ori-
gin of the Brahman-priest of the Vedic ritual, and, it ap-
pears, also of the Brahmana caste in general; for, at least
in the later portions of the work, he has not tried to keep
the two distinct—when, for instance, he refers to the
Smrtis (p. 61) for support for his theory.

The author’s chiefest discovery is that the primitive
Indo-Europeans used to honour their kings by killing them
on certain occasions to placate the higher powers ; but as
the kings gradually got diffident. of this singular privilege
and wanted to share responsibilities with another person,
the Brahman, who became a sort of alier ego to him used
to take his place at the time of the gruesome human sacri-
fice. As the king owed his life to the Brahman, he had
naturally to honour him highly; and although the Brahman
took no active part.in the sacrifice, he was: thence entitled
to half the sacrificial fee. All this follows: from the- legend
of Sufiahéepa anda few other passages ‘all. of which can
be and have been explained more easily and naturally. |

The Flamen Dialis is the Roman counterpart of the
Vedic Brahman. The author ‘quotes with obvious | relish
the words ‘“‘il est une victime vivante, sans cesse parée
pour le dieu auquel elle appartient’”’ (p. 43) and interprets

the worde in italics in the literal sense, t no ie doubt because i

ee

ST AT

MERI

ae
eae

154 NOTICES OF BOOKS

ally allowed to depart from the city, how does it follow that
it was because he was an unsacrificed victim ? What reason
is there to believe that the sanctity of person is attainable
only through unconsummated immolation ? Even if the
origin of the Brahman and the Flamen may some day be
proved to have been similar, we would still be far off from
being able to refer them to.a common origin as Mr. Dumé-
zil has attempted to do. We have always to recognise the
possibility of the primitive mind reacting on similar sur-
roundings in the same or similar ways. Perhaps out of
this consideration Mr. Dumézil has thought fit to discuss the
phonological aspect of the equation flamen:brahman.
And inspite of his treatment of the problem the equation
remains as before an unproved possibility.

On the whole the book must be regarded as a very able
pleading for a seemingly hopeless case. Mr. Dumézil
writes very persuasively. And it is no wonder that. he
parnsell has fallen a prey to his own power of persuasion.

: BATAKRISHNA GHOSH

"Memoirs of the Archaeological Survey of Ceylon,

Vol, Ill. The Excavations in the Citadel of Anurddhepara,
1936. Pp. vi+38, 5 Plans and 25 Plates.

This memoir contains an account of the excavations,
conducted during the years 1928, 1929, 1932 and 1933, on
several sites within the Citadel (the “Inner City’ or dinakara)

Of the ancient city of Anuradhapura, the capital of the

Simhalese monarchy for a period of over 1000 years. In 1913
some. preliminary excavations were undertaken by Mr.
Ayrton within this area, but regular work was first started in

1928 ‘and continued through the successive working seasons
all 1933. with ‘a temporary suspension, owing to shortage of
_ funds, in the years: 1930 and 1931. Pie results of the first

Wo years”. work. were: briefly communicated by Dr. Joseph
sti _Peatson, D Sev

the” ‘then. ‘officiating - “Archaeological Com-
€s-0 tee antial ne of Indian

ee

- features and, in some cases, even ‘about their ground plan.

oY aa

NOTICES OF BOOKS 155

Archaeology, for the year 1929 (pp. ie 13 and Pl. VJ), and the
present memoir is the official report of four years’ work,
drawn up by Mr. S. Paranavitana, M.A., who also for some
time officiated in that post.

Apart from the Introduction eh briefly discusses the
location of this citadel, the Memoir contains three sections
describing the results of the operations conducted on three
sites within this area—the site between the Mahapali and the | i
Gedige, the Daladage or the Temple of the Tooth and the Hl
Mahapali or the Alms-house. Remains of several buildings
have been laid bare, but they are too fragmentary to allow
us to form any idea about their structural or architectural

The excavations again have not as yet furnished us with |
anything which can go to support the evidence of the inscrip-
tions connecting the area concerned with the “Royal
Enclosure.”’ . i |

Hi

All the buildings Secnvatel except one, Lelong. to the

uppermost stratum and have been dated by the author in
the 10th century A.D., i.e., the end of the Anuradhapura
period. Not infrequently they indicate the use of older.
materials collected from earlier structures. Indeed it be-
came evident on deeper digging that ‘ ‘the foundations of the
tenth century Mahapali were laid on the ruins, and following
the lines, of earlier buildings’ (p: 27). “The tenth century build-
ings all represent extensive pillared halls, which were in all

probability roofed over with glazed tiles of probably indigenous
manufacture. Nothing has been known as to the. internal
arrangement of these halls and it is not possible to say whether
these halls were enclosed. by walls or were left open. As ~
bricks were found very sparsely in the debris round about
these ruins, the author appears. to be quite correct in suggest-

ing that the walls, if there were any, were constructed of clay, .
as in the Kandyan eee. oe

156 NOTICES OF BOOKS

the outer prakdra of the Daladage quadrangle, vestiges of
older structures on the northern and eastern sides of the
Mahapali, etc. Again potsherds inscribed with Brahmi letters
of circa 2nd century B.C, and copper coins of probably pre-
Christian dates, which have been found sporadically at diffe-
rent levels on the different sites and which were evidently
thrown up “‘in disturbing the deposits of the lower strata when
| the ground was dug for foundations of buildings in successive
ages’’ indicate that the whole site had been in occupation
from pre-Christian times, a fact which is quite in agreement
with the evidence of the chronicles. The upper strata re-
mains are too fragmentary and it would be well if the Archaeo-
logical Department of Ceylon were to consider the advisability
of conducting deeper operations througout the entire area
for earlier edifices and structures. This may prove important,
not only from the standpoint of arihaeology but also from, the
point of view of the early history of the sity as well as of
the island.

Mention shquld specially be made of a building the re-
mains of which have been laid bare on the site between the
-Mahapali and the Gedige (Building A of the plans). Both
Dr. Pearson and Mr, Paranavitana describe this edifice as a
novel type in Simhalese architecture, the only like of which
to be found in the whole island is the Gedige, which stands
a little to the north-east. From an inscription on the dsana
within the inner room this structure (and hence also the
Gedige, which stands on the-same’ level) can be definitely
dated in the 8th century A.D. The novelty consists in the
ground plan, which is externally a square with the middle
portion of each face projected forward, the projection on the
northern. face being further extended to form a porch. In the
interior we have the. circumambulatory passage, running round
the inner room, which is a perfect square wth-its entrance
to the north. Besides the doorway through the porch the
- passage is Lighted by eleven. stone windows and on the
x owestern. wall there is a stone. staircase, “built into) the thick-
ess. .¢ he wall, leading ‘to o the. upper .storey. Both Dr.
| na. think sie the. celifce had a

NOTICES OF BOOKS | 157

vaulted roof. But this is a mere surmise based upon the
discovery of a single fragment of an arch constructed of 145
wedge-shaped bricks. ‘

As, except the Gedige, no identical structure can be
found throughout the entire island, it is but reasonable to
assume that this type was not indigenous. Its newness con-
sists in the peculiar arrangement of the ground plan, not to be
found in any other building in Ceylon, except the Gedige.
Unfortunately the walls are preserved to no very great height
and we know next to nothing regarding the method of roofing
or superstructure. It is possible that, if preserved, this too
might have furnished us with novel features, unknown in the
island.

Now, as regards the question of origin of the type
ene would naturally turn to South India, which is so near ou
and which has influenced the art and architecture of Ceylon :
in no small degree. But this plan, the setting forward of
the middle portion of each face of a square, is, so far as |
am aware, unknown in Southern India. The projections and
corresponding returns with their flanking pilasters along the
outer faces of walls, which we notice in. South Indian
temples, are quite different and have nothing to do with
this setting forward of the central portion of each came a
characteristic quite ‘common | in. Northern, especially.

Eastern India, where we can ,frace the gradual ees
of the evolution of this feature from, the simplest-beginnings
of its most intricate elaborations. The. pedestal of the
early image (c. 7th-8th centuries A. D) of the. Eastern
Indian school usually shows a single projection in
the middle portion, and this plan. when extended to the other ee
three sides, gives us exactly the same ground plan—a square ,
with the central Portion a each face. set. balenoe can

See

<=

eae

plan of the itaed tertile, laid bate at Pal 3
offers: a eae! pease to foe!

asco oe
158 NOTICES OF BOOKS

Paharpur temple in the windows on the outer walls lighting
up the passage and the staircase in the thickness of the wall.
Of course the moonstone, the balustrades and the guard.
stones are typically Simhalese. But the remarkable similari-
ty in the ground plan and internal arrangement of the two
edifices—one in the island of Ceylon and the other in far off
Eastern India, where such an edifice, appears to be the
characteristic type—cannot be passed over too lightly. The
influence of Eastern India, especially of Bengal, on the
architecture of Further India (Burma, Siam, Cambodia, Java,
etc.) is now being recognised, and in view of the similarity
under notice the question of the expansion and the relative
proportion of this influence in Ceylon has now to be
investigated.

Among the other interesting results of the excavations
may be mentioned the discovery of a unique well close. to
the ruins of the Mahapali, “the like of which”, says Mr.
Paranavitana, ‘ ‘has not been found in any other ancient site
in. Ceylon.”” It measures 33 ft. by 23 ft. at the top and its
uniqueness consists. in the “‘flights of steps, passages and
platforms, along the eastern, northern and western sides,
which enable one to descend with ease and safety right .
down to the very bottom.” So far as its arrangement and
dimensions are concerned it is probable that it might
represent the vapi. or the “‘pleasure-tank’’, so frequently
mentioned in ancient Sanskrit literature. The use of lime
mortar in the eighth century i.e., before the Polonnarua
period (p. 7), the preparation of Blane tiles independently
in Ceylon (p. 5), and the system of underground drainage
with the help of terra-cotta pipes socketed together (p. 8)
are also. important deductions from the results of these ex-
cavations. The thin circular gold-plate with the figure of a
lion between two Jampstands (p, 9), fragments of gilt earthen-
ware (p. 12), not found elsewhere in Ceylon, the round por-
celain. box of ‘probably Chinese make ((p. 20-21) and the

SS oystal, peal: ‘a very, decadent imitation. of Graeco-Roman

a Mew Hl ea among , the

See =

‘in Sumatra are just at their beginning. Dr. Schnitger’s
explorations in Palembang, Padang Lawas, and Batang Hari

_ vides archaeologists with an additional work on the subject.

NOTICES OF BOOKS — 159

The printing of the text and the get-up of the book
are quite commendable. Only one typographical error re-
quires to be corrected. Instead of *‘To the south-west of the
building . . .°’ at the beginning of the last paragraph of
page 5 should be read ‘To the south-east of the building

. . 2. The excellent plans and reproductions greatly
enhance the value of the publication.

SARAS} Furiar Simiguant

Hindoe-Invioed in Noordelijk Batakland, By J. Tide-
man, Published by the Batak Institute, Publication No. 23,
pp. 59+amap, Amsterdam, 1936.

This is a monograph on Hindu influence in ancient
Batak. Batak is a small tract of country in the main island
of Sumatra lying north of the small island of Baros and
north-west of Palembang beyond Minangkabau. Sumatran
archaeology has been little studied as compared to that of
the sister-island of Java: in fact archaeological explorations

have already brought to light some remarkable. sculptures
and other monuments, and Mr. Tideman’ 8 monograph pro-

Mr. Tideman does not. bring to: light any new, archaeo-
logical or literary material; but he’ presents | ‘an admi
rable study of the existing material, in course of which he
examines the old religion of Batak and the history of Hindu :
cultural exparision in Indonesia. He describes the writing
pede mythology; calendar, games; , symbols and mus :

160 NOTICES OF BOOKS

sions are that (a) Batak contact with India (Pallava-Cola
region of South India) was established as early as the begin-
ning of the Christian era, and resumed in the filth century;
it followed the route that passed through the Straits as far as
Koetu, as well as a bifurcated route along the lower coast
direct to Batakland; (b) Mahayana influences penetrated
into the island of Sumatra as early as 414 A. D. (Fa-Hien);
these influences were certainly active in 672 (I-tsing); and

(c) Indo-Javanese culture in Sumatra travelled via Minangka-
bau to Batakland in the 13th, 14th and 15th centuries.

Nid4rR RANJAN RAy

Oudheidkundig Verslag, 1936. Published by the
Royal Batavian Institute of Arts and Sciences, Pp: 24+ 12
plates, Bandoeng, 1937, -

The Annual Report of the Archaeological Survey of
Netherland-India for 1936 issued by Dr. W. F. Stutter- _
heim, Director of the Survey, summarises, as usual, the: 3

work of the Department under the heads of administration,
explorations and other tours of officers, conservation of
‘monuments, explorations and. researches, new finds of
archaeological interest efc., with a programme of work for
1937. The report is concise but none the less precise and
informative.

The most important conservation work was carried on
cin the Tjandi Singasari ‘and in several temples at Pram-
if banam and Penanggoengan; the last site having received
; : until: now very little attention from scholars. This site yielded
3 to last’ year’s excavations at. least two important sculptures
: (Ibid figs. 15 and 16) and three. terracottas (Ibid Sigs. 17, 18.
and 19). The most important finds are those of a stone

Image “sf Ganega seated on a lotus-seat from Gebang, and
uching figure of an. élephant - from: Wonoredjo. Im-
10 short sib ded on ‘anit

NOTICES OF BOOKS 161

written in two forms of letters, and another form Selaliman
(Ibid figs. 23 and 28 respectively). A fascinating Chinese
vase, unearthed from Cheribon, forms the subject-matter

of figure 26.

NIHAR RANJAN Ray

L'archeologie du Tonkin et les Fouilies de Dong-So'n,
Par Victor Goloubew, Avant-propos de George Ccedés,
Hanoi 1937.

This monograph meets a number of adverse criticisms
passed by Prof. Emile Gaspardone concerning the archaeo-
logical excavations in Tonkin carried out under the auspices
of the French School of the Far-East. In particular it seeks
to disprove the charge of neglect of Tonkin archaeology by
the School and justify its excavation of a prehistoric
site along with its methods of studying the same. These
points are worth serious consideration ” “apropos certain
remarks of Prof. Gaspardone in course of his paper

published in a previous issue (Vol. IV. No.1) of this Journal. :

UN. G,

Notes

Dr. Kalidas Nag, Joint-Secretary of the Greater India
Society, has just returned to Calcutta after completing
his six months’ term as Visiting Professor of Indian Culture
at the University of Hawaii. At the University he delivered
courses of lectures on Indian Civilisation and Indian Fine
Arts. He had also the privilege of delivering the University
Convocation Address. His mission has led to the opening
of an Indian section of the Oriental Institute at the Univer-
sity.

% # %

During the last six months the Journal of the Greater
India Society has been placed on the exchange-list of
two important Oriental Magazines: Journal of the Malayan
Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society, and Rivista degli

Studi Orientali. To the authorities in charge of these

Magazines the Society offers its best thanks. The Society
is particularly grateful to the Malayan Branch of the RAS.
for presentation of back numbers of their Journal com-
mencing from Vol. XIV.

# # ” *

As in previous years the Greater India Society has to
record its most grateful acknowledgements to two donors,
viz-, the authorities of the National Council of Education,

Bengal, and Dr. .Narendra Nath Law, M. A., Ph. D., one~

of the most esteemed members. of the Managing, Com-
mittee of the society, :
# Fae * pe
Dr. G. Tucci’s work called Travets of Tibetan piety in

the Swat Valley which is one of the Society’s announcements
‘is expected t to ee out t by the end of the current year. The

sg,

, N. J: Krom’ 'S sHindoe |avaanache sig
NOTES 163

Geschiedenis by Mr. Himansu Bhusan Sarkar, M. A. is in

active course of preparation.
% * % *®

The Java Institute is going to organise a Cultural Con-
gress at Bali from the [8th to the 23rd October 1937, both
days inclusive. The full programme is announced in the
current number of its organ the ‘Djdwa.’

* % 4 *

Dr. H. G. Quaritch Wales, Field Director of the Greater
India Research Committee, whose exploration of the
ancient city of Srideva in Siam during 1934-35 roused such
keen interest, proposes to take up the systematic explora-
tion of early Indian sites in British Malaya by the end of the
present year, Adequate funds have been placed at his
disposal by the Sear ae of the Federated Malay States
and Kedah.

As we are going through the Press we have the pleasure
of announcing the immediate publication of Dr. Quaritch |
Wales’ forthcoming work—Towards Angkor, illustrated with
42 plates and 5 maps.

BIBLIO GRAPHY
Bibliography—January-July 1937

Gentral Asia

Bailey, H. W. Ttaugara (Bulletin of the School of Oriental
Studies), Vol. VIII, pt. 4
Do, Hvatanica (Ibid), Vol. VIII, pt. 4 and Vol. IX pt. 1
Burrow, T., Further Kharosthi Documents from Niya, (Ibid)
Vol. IX, pt. 1 ,

Ceylon

Hocart, A. M., Archaeological Summary (Ceylon Journal
of Science, Section G., Vol. Hl, pt: 2)
Paranavitana, $., Epigraphical Summary ([bid.)
Codrington, H. W., Gavuta Pillars (Ibid.)
Do., Two Dagabas of Parakrama Bahu I (Ibid.) |
Do., The Polonnaruva Council Chamber Inscriptions (Ibid.)
Paranavitana, S. The capital of Ceylon oun the ninth and
tenth centuries

Champa and Cambodia
Sastri, K. A. Nilakanta, L’origine del’ alphabet du Campa,
BEFEO,, (t. XXXV, Fasc. 2)
Parmentier, H., La construction dans |’ architecture khmére
classique (Ibid.)
Coedés, G., Etudes cambodgiennes : XXXI A propos du
; Tchen-la _d’eau: trois inscriptions de Cochinchine.
XXXIf La plus ancienne. inscription en Pali du Cam-
bodge (BEFEO.., t. XXXVI, Fasc. 1)

China

omas, F. W., A Buddhist Chinese text in. Brahan ecript
(ZDMG., Bd. 91, heft. 1) tae &
i banative: ee of Chitess” text sa £ Voie chad in (Brahmi script

BIBLIOGRAPHY 165

Indonesia |

Juynboll, H.H., Vertaling van Sarga XXIV, XXV en
XXVI (slot) van het Oud-Javaansche Ramayana
(Bijdragen tot de Taal-Land en Volkenkunde van Neder
landsch-Indié, Deel 94, Afl. 3) . |

Moens, J. L., Srivijaya, Yava en Kataha (Tijdschrift voor
Indische Taal-, Land- en Volkenkeunde, Deel LXXVII,
1937 Afl. 3)

Nilakanta Sastri, K. A. ‘Srivijaya, Gandrabbhatt and. Vira®

Pandya (Ibid., Deel LXXVIL, Afi. 2) |

Malay Peninsula
Braddell, Roland, An introduction to the ‘study of ancient
times in Malay Peninsula ie Malay | Branch RAS., Vol.
XIV, Pts. Il and IID .
Coedds, G., Apropos d’ une nouvelle théaris sur le site de

Srivijaya ([bid,, Vol. XIV, Pe. HD
Contests the theory of H. G. Quaritch Wales about the route of
spread of Indian culture as well as of identification of C’aiya with

Srivijaya.

Linehan, W., A History of Pahang U- Maley Branch RAS.,
Vol. XIV, Pt. U)

BOOKS RECEIVED

The Greater India Society acknowledges. with thanks the
receipt of the following books, periodicals, pamphlets
etc. during the last six months.

Periodicals

Adyar Library Bulletin (Brahma-Vidya), Vol. 1, Part 2,
Madras 1937,

Annals of the Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute, Vol.
XVIII, Part I], Poona 1936: Part Il], Poona 1937.

Bijdragen tot de Taal-, Land- en Volkenkunde van Neder-
landsch-Indié, Deel 95, 's-Gravenhage, 1937

Buddha-Prabha, Vol. V, No. I, Bombay | 1937

Bulletin de l’Ecole Francaise d'Extreme-Orient, Tome
AXAVI, Fasc. 1, Hanoi, 1937

Bulletin of the School of Oriental Studies, Vol. IX, Pt. 1,
London, 1937

Didwd, 17 Jaarg., Nos. 1 & 2; am, 4, Batavia, 1937

Inner Culture, Vol. IX, No. 4, Los Angeles, oy Maas

Indian Historical Quarterly, Vol. XII, No. 4 Vol. XU, Nos. I
and 2, Calcutta, 1937

Journal of the Annamalai University, Vol. VI, No. 3,
Annamalainagar 1937

Journal of Indian History, Vol. XV, Pt. 3; Vol. XVI, Pt. 1;
Madras, 1937

Journal of the Malayan Branch, Royal Asiatic Society,
Vols. XII, XI; XIV; XV (Pt. 1,), Singapore, 1934-37 _

Karnataka Historical Review, Vol. IV Nos. | and 2, Dhar-
war, 1937 ,

Literatur-Overzicht (Kon. Inst. Taal-, Land- en Volkenkunde
van Nederlandsch-Indié), Deel 1, *s-Gravenhage, 1937

Mimamsa Prakasa, Vol. I No. 5, Poona, 1937 be

Ostasiatische Zeitschrift, 12 Jahre. 5-6 heft, Berlin, 1936; 13
Jahrg., | heft, Berlin, 1937.

Quarterly Journal of the Mythic Society, Vol. XXVIL Nos.
3 and 4; Vel. intel No: |, | Bangelors City, I (7
BOOKS RECEIVED 167

Tijdschrift voor Indische Taal-, Land- en Volkenkunde,
Deel LXXVII, afl. 2 and 3, Batavia, 1937
Tropisch Nederland, 9 Jaarg., No. 25, Vienna, 1937

Books, Pamphlets ete. -

Annamalai University Calendar, 1936-39

Butler, Nicholas Murray, The American as he Is, New
York, 1937

Braddell, Roland, An Introduction to the Study of Ancient

_ Times in the Malay Peninsula and the Straits of Malacca
(Part I), Singapore, 1937

Do, Further Notes upon a Study of Ancient Times in. the
Malay Peninsula, Singapore 1937

Carpani, Enrico G., Nirvdna, Bologna, 1934

Do, Sarméddhi, Fasc. II and II] 1935-1936

Carngie Endowment for International Peace, Annual Report
for 1936

.Ccedés, G., A propos d’ une nouvelle théorie sur le site de
Srivijaya, Singapore, 1937

Garde, M. B., A Hand-book of Gwalior, Gwalior, 1937

Goloubew, Victor, L’ eee et du Tonkin et les Fouilles
de Ding-S’on —

Kon. Koloniaal Inst. te Arai eeta Anesinsten op ethno-
grafisch en anthropologisch gebied van de afdeeling
Volkenkunde van het. Koloniaal Instituut over 1936,
Amsterdam, 1937

Lijst der Leden Enz, (Kon. ‘Fist. Taal-, Katid. en Volken-
kunde van Nederl. Indié), ’s-Gravenhage, 1937

Longhurst A. H., The Story of the Stipa, Colombo, 1936

Murti, Y. G. Krishna, Magnificent Mysore, Mysore, 1937

Roy, Sarat Chandra and ey phandip, The hangs,

(2 Vols.), Ranchi, 1937.

Sahni, Daya Ram, Urasebdicd! Remain “ised Exeave- mie
tions at Bairat, Jaypur. State,’ 1937 :

Schnitger, F.M., Hindoe-beelden ‘ven Oost-Java, oy
1937 = hus

Do, Tiigerbeelden in » Zaid Sumatra, Vienna, 1937

oe

Page
8
11

”

iz

19

»
Ee

#9

”

16
19

39

75
os

Line
ED cayk
Fa. 2
En 3
fn. 4
36

5&6
7

Lines 22-26

29
13:
10
ed
Ly
10

Ce ee

ERRATA
(Vol. IV, No. 7)

For Read
letters a lettre
it les echelles et des échelles
absalunsant absolument
pourrai pourrait
Add before Ne pas Pavoue

partager

saillants en losanges de pieces 4 cing éléments
Parriére re-corps Parviére-corps

Suppress the whole passage between the two
couronnement de lotus

pets tres en poutre

ondule | ondulé

deucine doucine

Add a comma before fidéles and sur sa face
Store 9B Sebago
omit the whole line

commenced = ‘recommend
