REATER INDIA SOCIETY
VOL. XIV

1955

Diattzesoy (S00)
Liban
Sibjaries.

Original from

Digitized by Google UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN a
Original from
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

JOURNAL

OF THE
GREATER INDIA SOCIETY
Vol. XIV. 1955 No- 1
Edited by

Pror. NALINAKSHA DUTT

CONTENTS
Articles :

The National Language of Indonesia
By Dr. Suniti Kumar Chatterji, M.A., D Lite. (Lond.)

Religious Conditions as depicted in the

Niya Documents
from Ceneral Asia

By Ratna Chandra Agrawala, M.A.
A Refutation of Solipsism oe 55
By Hidenori Kitagawa
Bibliographical Notes oe oe 74

Published by —
THE GREATER INDIA SOCIETY, CALCUTTA

Greater India Society (Established 1927)

Aims and Objects

1. To organise the study of Indian Culeure in Greater India (i.e.
Serindia, India Minor, Indo-China and Insulindia) as well as in China,
Korea, Japan and other countries of Asia and the Pacific World.

2. To arrange for publication of the results of researches into the
history of India’s spititual and cultural relations with the outside world.

To create an interest in the history of Greater India and
consected problems among the students in the Schools, Colleges, and
Universities of India by instituting a systematic study of those subjects
and by taking proper steps to stimulate the same.

4- To popularise the knowledge of Greater India, ancient and

modern, by organising meetings, lantern lectures, exhibitions and
conferences.

Membership Rules

1. The annual subscription payable by members is Rs. 12/- only.
Members are entitled to receive the publications of the Society at
concession tates and copies of the Journal of the Society fre of cox.

2, Resident members may have access to the Society’s collection
of books, pamphlets and periodicals etc. on application either to the
Jt. Honorary Secretaries f the Society of to. she Libratian, Caleueea
University. The Society's collection is housed, by arrangement with
the Calcutta University authorities, in the University Library.

Officers and Members of the Managing Committee,
Greater India Society, 1955

President —Dr. Suniti Kumat Chatterji, M.A., D.Litt. (Lond),
Vice-Presidents—Dr. U. N. Ghoshal, M.A., Ph.D.
Dr. Kalidas Nag, M.A., D.Lite. (Paris)
Hony. Secretaries—Dr. A. C. Banerji, M.A., Ph.D. ;
Dr. Kalyan Kumar Ganguly, M.A. D.Phil.

Other Members of the Committee—Dr. Narendra Nath Law, M.A.,
Ph. D.; Dr. B.C. Law, M.A., B.L., Ph.D., D.Litt; Dr. Prabodh
Chandra Bagchi, M.A., D.Lite. (Paris) Dr. Nalinaksta Duct,
M.A., Ph.D., D.Litt. (London); Dr. Satkari Mukherji M.A.,
Ph.D.; Dr. Nibar Ranjan Ray, M.A., Ph.D., D.Lite. (Leiden);
Dr. Jitendranath Banerjea, M.A., Ph.D.; Dr. C. Sivaramamurti,

Google
JOURNAL

OF THE
GREATER INDIA SOCIETY *
Vol. XIV 1955 No.1

The National Language of Indonesia
By Sunitt Kumar CHartTerii

sch delivered on ‘the oth October, 1954, by Prof. Dr. Suniti
‘umat Chatterji, Chairman, West Bengal Legislative Council,
Calcutta; Emeritus Professor of Comparative Philology and Dean of the
Faculty of Fine Arts and Music in the University of Calcutta; and Presi-
dent, Asiatic Society, Bengal; Representative of the Government of India
Ministry of Education at the Konggres Bahasa Indonesia held under the
auspices of the Government of Indonesia at Medan, October 28-
November 2, 1954.

Mr. President, Esteemed Colleagues, and Sisters and Brothers of
Indonesia:

First of all I have to apologise co you for my inability to address
you inthe official language of the Congress, the Bahasa Indonesia,
and for my being forced to speak to you in a language which is
neither yours nor mine. In India as in other parts of Asia we have
not taken much interest so far in each other's affairs, and we are now
feeling the need, for the sake of Asian solidarity and mutual under-
standing, to know each other’s languages, histories and cultures. I
do hope that when next a linguistic expert from India comes to
Indonesia, he will be able to address you in your own language.

I have also to thank the organisers of this Congress for doing
great honour to my country by requesting our Education Ministry to
send a suitable person to patticipate in the Congress; and I also feel
grateful to you, Mr. President, and to your Colleagues, for asking me
to speak to you this evening.

L bring to you on this memorable occasion, when you are taking
far-reaching decisions to improve and develop the language you have

Google
2 The National Language of Indonesia

accepted as the National Language of the Indonesian People, the
warmest good wishes of the People and the Government of India.
We rejoice with you in your success in solving the initial problems
connected with the setting up of the Babasa Indonesia as the basic plank
in the platform of your national unity. And we now wish you the
best of luck in making this language a potent and a flexible instru-
ment, to give the fullest expression to the modern culture that is
evolving among your people, and to its hopes and aspirations and
successes and achievements, through both informative and creative
literature.

We wish sometimes that in the matter of language our problems
were as simple as yours. You have taken courage in both hands, and
are making a rapid advance. We are sure, as I personally believe,
to profit by your experiences; and that, for myself, is one of the main
reasons for my participation in this Congress.

Personally I am not a new-comer to your country. Twenty-seven
yeats ago, as a member of Rabindranath Tagore’s party, I visited the
land of Indonesia, having first landed at Belawan and spent the day
at Medan on August 16, 19273 and then we spent a full month and
a half in teavelling all over Java and Bali, We could, with the poet’s
great humanism and sympathy and love for his fellow-men as our
background, feel a litele of the throb of the life of Indonesia. It was
already a nation in the making, and its birch-pangs had started, so to
say. On that occasion I had the privilege of knowing your President,
who, asa young nationalist worker of 27, had come to see Tagore at
Bandung on 27 September, 19273 and no one could at that time
prophesy that the handsome and intelligent young man would be
the hero to usher in freedom to 75 millions of people and to be one
of the foremost leaders of men in Asia.

The bonds of union between our two countries, India and
Indonesia, are not on the surface only—they go deep down into the
bases of our racial origins. We are not merely neighbours and
friendly nations of Asia; we have a certain racial affinity and inherent
racial sympathy with each other. As Indonesians, you are members
of the Austronesian branch of great Austric people, and peoples of
the other branch of this great race, viz., the Austro-Asiatic, formed

Google
The National Language of Indonesia 3

one of the basic races of India. The Indian people of the present
day are a mixed people, in the formation of which the Nigadas or
Austrics, the Dramidas or Dravidians, the Kiratas or Mongoloids and
the Aryas or Indo-Aryans have contributed—in fact, men of all these
races, each forming a distinct ethnolinguistic or language-culture
group, have supplied elements to bring about the birth or evolution
of the Indian Man. The same racio-linguistic texture as yours is
partly in our national composition too, The Aryan language after
+ the Vedic period had its own special evolution in India in an atmos-
phere of non-Aryan life and culture, and in the formation of Classical
Sanskeit (as distinct from the Vedic), of the Prakrits and of the New
Indo-Aryan Bhasés or Modern Languages, the Dravidians and
Austrics as well as the Sino-Tibetan speaking Mongoloid groups
played a leading part. In the formation of Sanskrit in India, the
Austric Nisida peoples, who were our ancestors too, and were
brothers in blood and language of your Austronesian ancestors, had a
hand. An Austric substratum, like a Dravidian substratum, is
gradually being unearthed: and it is seen that in the syntactical
development of Sanskrit and the Prakrits, as well as in their ever-
extending vocabularies, Austric elements were operative. The Austric
substrata in Sanskrit, related in their roots and terminations to the
oldest forms of Indonesian, have been brilliantly brought to our
notice for the first time by a band of eminent French scholars, like
Jean Przyluski, Sylvain Lévi and Jules Bloch. Their initial investiga-
tions, revealing a new bond between the world of Sanskrit and the
world of Indonesian, which may be described as ‘‘prehistoric’”. because
bo record has been preserved of it, were taken up by investigators
in other lands—India and Holland; and we have to mention in this
connexion the recent work of F. B, J. Kuiper of Leyden, his important
contribution on fresh Austric material in Sanskrit, in addition to what
has been suggested by Lévi, Przyluski and Bloch, and P. C. Bagchi
and S. K. Chatterji from India.
I need not enter into this historico-linguistic study, which is hardly
4 propos to our present objective, viz., the study of the problems of
the representative speech of Indonesia with the aim of making it one
of the great modern languages of the world. I would therefore pass

Google
4 The National Language of Indonesia

on from language and race connexions between Indonesia and India,
to the consideration of the Indonesian speech par excellence, the
Bahasa Mélayw which has become the Babasa Indonesia.

A decade ago, Indonesia was not in the map of the world. With
the advent of your freedom, a new nation has come into existence: and
now, with this new nation, its national language, current among over
75 millions of people, has now become established before the eyes of
men, Where was the Bahasa Indonesia all this time? People are
asking themselves. When we get up in the morning, and find in
the field in front of our house a tiny blade of grass growing, we
seldom take notice of it—we often fail to see it. But if we find in the
morning that overnight when we were asleep a great banyan or
waringin tree has come into existence, filling the spaces of both land
and sky, we are astounded, and rub our eyes in bewilderment. So,
too, in the present world set-up for different languages which are now
coming into prominence with the prominence, as members of a free
world, their speakers are attaining. People who know anything of
India also know of Hindi, as a great language of the country, but
no one could dream of the position Hindi might be attaining to, as
the official language of the second great state of the world from the point
of numbers, Malay was known as a very useful lingua franca in the
islands of the Indian archipelago and Malaya. But, as the national
language of 75 millions of a very highly gifted race which is getting
its deserved place as one of the great speeches of the world, the Malay
language under its new name Babasa Indonesia has to be accorded a
place of honour as the Eighth Great Language of the world. Chinese,
or rather Northern Chinese, is current over more than two-thirds of
the great country of China, and is pechaps spoken by near about 350
millions of people, besides being, as Gwo-yew, the national language
of the People’s Republic of China; and Northern Chinese thus in
point of numbers has to be given the first place among the present-
day speeches of the world, Yet Chinese is not so important outside
of China, and although colloquially it is easy to acquire, written
Chinese becomes a hopeless task for ordinary people, and this detracts
very largely from the world-populatity of this great language. After
Chinese comes English, the home language of possibly 180 millions,

Google
The National Language of Indonesia 5

and the language of administration, of political life, of higher educa-
tion and culture of some 500 millions more: and in addition to that,
English has attained to a position unique among the languages of the
world—it has become the completest exponent of World Culture, and
is easily now the most important and most advanced languages of the
world, After English we shall have to reckon Hindi, which has its
home in the north-western tracts of India, but is now the accepted
language of public life, education and literature of some 140 millions
of human beings within India and in some places outside India;
and, besides, Hindi is the most natural common language for some
260 millions of Atyan-speakers in India, and is che language most
widely learned by the speakers of Dravidian and other non-Atyan
speeches; and as such, it has been raised to the status of the official
language of India (side by side with English, for the time being), a
country of 360 millions of inhabitants. The Urdu Style of the Hindi
language is also one of the national languages of the State of Pakistan,
with its population of 73 millions. Then we have to mention
in descending order, Spanish wih its 120 millions, Russian with 110,
German with more than 80, and Japanese with 78. Indonesian is now
looked upon as the 8th in this order, but it is likely that with Indonesian
speakers in the Southern Philippines and Malaya, its numbers would
exceed those for Japanese. After Indonesian comes Bengali, another
Indian and Pakistani language, with over 63 millions—the language of
Rabindranath Tagore, with one of the most progressive literatures in
the world. French and Arabic are to be enumerated after the above.
The problem with you now is to make your language a suitable
vehicle for your highest education in the arts and sciences, and for
your administration, The language is refreshingly simple in its
grammar, and only in its vocabulary it is to be made supple and all-
inclusive. You have in all seriousness started to exploit all the
resources of che grammar of the language in its prefixes and suffixes.
As|I said before, ‘herein you have some advantage over us. Al-
though your Indonesian speech is fairly old—the oldest specimens
of Malay and Javanese, from Srivijaya times, going back to the 8th
century A.D., in inscriptions—and although there is a fair amount
of literature early and modern in both, the Malay language which is

Google
6 The National Language of Indonesia

being transformed into the Babasa Indonesia has shown itself to be a
speech on which the burden of tradition sits but lightly. The
speakers of Javanese and Sundanese built up a great culture, and with
it a strong literary tradition which was bound up with Sanskrit and
its literary conventions, and Javanese is largely within the orbit of
this tradition, But the Old Malay speakers of Palembang who created
the Srivijaya empire and its civilisation have left a language which
ministered to the needs of a simple folk given to both agriculture and
sea-fating, and this speech developed quite a cosmopolitan spirie in its
tendency to absorb whatever was useful for expressiveness. This
realistic approach to the problem of language as a means of conveying
ideas I am glad to find has not worked itself out, and is showing itselE
once again in the creation of the scientific and technical terms for the
modern Babasa Indonesia.

I am very glad to find one thing which you have done in your
educational system in connexion with the higher study and teaching
of the Bahasa Indonesia. You have retained old Javanese as a
compulsory subject in your University courses in Babasa Indonesia,
side by side with Sanskrie and Arabic. You have built up a great
literary expression of your ancient and medieval Indonesian civilisation
through the medium of Old & Middle Javanese. This is a precious
heritage, from which your new National Language can draw fresh
material for its own enrichment whenever necessary. It should be
like what Old Church Slavic is for the Modern Slavic Languages,
and like what Sanskrit is for modern Indian languages. Sanskrit, a
language which has never been so foreign to you—as a language
which on the soil of India grew partly in an Austro-Asiatic or
Austric background—will be helpful to understand your ancient and
medieval culture, and will form a link with India and Indo-China,
with Ceylon, Siam and Burma, and the value of Arabic for a
Muslim Indonesia everybody appreciates. So your study of the
Bahasa Indonesia will continue to profit by its living contact with
three Classical Languages, Old Javanese, Sanskrit and Arabic.

From recent literature in various subjects in the Babasa Indonesia
which have come to my hands, I am glad to find that in the matter of
your scientific and technical terms, you are quite eclectic or cosmopo-

Google
The National Language of Indonesia 7

lican, You have, to start with, your own native Indonesian elements;
and then you have the rich heritage of Sanskrit in ancient and early
mediaeval times, which has been particularly in vogue in Javanese,
and this you are putting to modern employment to the fullest,
Then there is the Arabic element; and here religious sentiment of at
least some of the leaders of the great mass of Indonesians would like
to extend this element to the point of saturation in the language. Fin-
ally, there is your reaction to impact of Europe with its scientific and

literary, philosophical and cultural pre-eminence. And iu this reaction

you have, as far as Ican see, shown the same spitit of realism and

adaptiveness which has always characterised your national history.
The spirie of exclusiveness is not at all in evidence. Your old and
naturalised Sanskritic vocabulary is now sharing the privilege of citizen-
ship with the more recent non-Indonesian elements; and with European
science and the arts of European origin, European words (in their Dutch
forms owing to your long association with the Hollanders) are being
welcomed, for the simple reason that they are understood generally,
eand are precise and correct for the purpose. .

This kind of linguistic mosaic would not be approved where there
isa high and old tradition, or where there is recent (and sometimes
unreasoning) revivalism. In India, we find that we cannot easily rid
ourselves of this traditionalism, at least in the formal side of language
which is generally the language of books, if not in our informal and
colloquial everyday speech untrammelled by the ghost of tradition.
Sanskrit has ever been the universally acknowledged source and
background of our languages, and the greatness and prestige of Sans-
kcie have for over 2500 years surrounded all forms of Indian speech
as aring or halo which they could never transgress. In fact, it has
to be universally acknowledged that Sanskrie has been one of the
greatest cultural forces in the world, both within India and outside
India, particularly in Central and South-East Asia; and only three
other languages as enshtining the highest achievements of Man in the
realm of cteative thought and culture during ancient and mediaeval
times can be mentioned with Sanskrit, viz., Greek, Chinese and
Arabic. It is no wonder that Sanskrit should have such pre-eminence
in India—except in the case of the Urdu form of the great Hindi

Google
8 The National Language of Indonesia

speech of North India, which for a number of political and other reasons
affliated itself during the last two centuries to Persian and Arabic
particularly, We have been, whenever necessary, borrowing words
from Sanskrit, as inevitably as the Romanic (and even Germanic and
Slavic) languages of Europe have been doing so from Latin. The
Sanskrit tradition is a living one over the greater part of India; and
where it was languishing, it has been to a large extent revived during
the last hundred years. Hence there is a strong general feeling that
our Indian languages, including the official language Hindi, which have
largely become “borrowing languages” like English, taking their words
ready-made from some other speech ancient or modern, and have virtu-
ally ceased to be “building languages” creating new words with their
existing materials of roots or other words and affixes, should as a
nationalistic measure confine their borrowings to Sanskrit alone. With
a few of our language-makers in Hindi, it has become an. inviolable
principle leading to a total eschewing of all foreign elements. But this
form of “Don't-touchism”” in language is also recognised in other (and
I should say, intellectually more progressive) quarters as impracticable; @
and the official policy of the Government of India in the matter of en-
riching the vocabulary of Hindi has been to follow a vie media, to take
words of international application in theic English forms wherever in
wide use ot found to be suitable, to retain words of foreign origin when
universally understood, and to coin new words with existing materials
maintaining all the while a basic connexion with Sanskrit and giving it
the first preference when words are already found in Sanskrit ot cannot
conveniently be taken over from a foreign (European) language.

Our official language Hindi has not been given the same status
that you have given to Bahasa Indonesia. We have out regional lan-
guages of which each has had its independent literary life for ten cen-
turies and more, and Hindi by virtue of its wide use and understand-
ability could only be given the position of a prima inter pares, a first
among equals. Hindi is to be used for inter-state or intet-provincial
purposes only; and the regional languages like Assamese, Bengali,
Gujarati, Kannada, Kashmiri, Malayalam, Marathi, Oriya, Panjabi,
Tamil, Telugu, are not to be suppressed by Hindi. These are to
remain the vehicles of state business, and of education up to the high-

Google

The National Language of Indonesia “9

est standards in the University (if English is to be replaced at all),
and, of course, for literature, in their proper areas. The numbers of
people speaking these regional languages (e.g. Bengali, current among
over 25 millions within India, with nearly about 38 millions more
in East Bengal within Pakistan; Tamil, over 22 millions, Telugu over
33 millions, etc,), and the pride and affection with which their
speakers regard these great literary languages, could not but make the
linguistic policy of the Indian state as it now is. The regional lan-
guages are to remain the queens in their respective areas; and boys
and gitls in India have now the right to get the highest training in the
University, as soon as that can be arranged, in their mother-tongue (or
the language accepted in the place of the mother-tongue), if it is one
of the recognised state or regional languages of India,

Our Central Educational Ministry has started a Department for
the Development of Hindi, and its various Technical Terms Com-
miteees, in collaboration with scholars from the regional languages
areas, ate now preparing terms not only tor the Sciences and Arts for
school and college use, but also for the various Departments of Ad-
ministration. This is proving to be a rather slow and a difficult task,
but considerable progress has already been made; and Hindi terms
are generally taken over or built up from Sanskrit, and in a good
number of cases the existing terms from Persian and Arabic and
from English are being retained; and in Science and other matters
forcign languages are not neglected.

The weight of tradition not being so heavy on the Babasa
Indonesia, you are enabled to be more truly international in this
matter. In the matter of script, our Government has declared the
Indian script the Devanagari to be the proper or official script for
Hindi, and has not given any official support to the Roman script.
Nevertheless, there is a strong group, which however is not very active
now but which has the tacit support of many scientific scholars,
particularly in Bengal and sporadically in other parts of India too,
which is in favour of a general acceptance of the Roman script for all
Indian languages. [myself am connected with a Romaka Lipi
Samiti, a “Roman Letters Society” in Calcutta, as its President. We
find that the flood-tide of national sentiment is in favour of the

2

Google
10 The National Language of Indonesia

national Indian script, which in the arrangement or order of its letxers
is the most scientifically conceived alphabet in the world. This national
sentiment will not at the present moment take the question of
changing to the Roman script seriously, and will rather oppose it for
educational and other reasons. I can only feel glad that the Indonesian
people have accepted the Roman script for the Babasa Indonesia. There
are certain matters to which I would like to draw the attention of this
Congress in connexion with the Roman orthography as adopted for
the Babasa Indonesia. 1am happy you have eschewed dotted and
capped letters—characters with diacritical marks; the simplicity of the
phonetic system of the Babasa Indonesia ensures that, It is a good thing
you have adopted the simple ‘‘u’” for the Duch digraph “oe”. But
I would like the special letter (2) to be retained for the pépet, which is
such a distinctive sound in Indonesian. And for the digraphs “tj,
dj,” you could use the single letters ““c"” and "j"; these are widely
accepted for scientific work in Oriental and African languages, for the
palatal affricates, and their adoption would create a wider field for
Indonesians to participate in. As English will be more and more
studied in Indonesia, the English value of +4j” =*dj” will perhaps be
better; and the semi-vowel ‘j" as in Dutch and German may be
indicated by adopting “'y” for this purpose. For the other digraphs,
“sj, ng, ny or nj", the advantages of “'s’, n, and n”—ordinary
Roman letters followed by the accent-mark or by a dot, as moveable
indicators, may be thought of. But Iam not going to discuss at
length this question just now.

Ihave dusting these few days spent in this corner of Indonesia
noticed great changes. There is a most refreshing literary activity
which has just started. My Indian friends here tell me that they are
noting among the people a very eager desire to read and learn. The
spirit of adaptiveness, of taking from foreign culeures what will be
helpful and assimilable, which is a sign of life in any people, is still
strong with you. You have kept your racial bases and your racial
spirit strong and effective in the creation of a special or distinctive
Indonesian Culture which has its own place in the assemblage of the
living culeures of the world, by assimilating from pre-historic times
vatious civilisations which came in touch with the basic Indonesian

Google
The National Language of Indonesia n

people and its native culture—the Dongson Culture from North Indo-
China, the composite Hindu Culture of India, the homogeneous
Culture of China, the spicitual and social aspects of Islamic Culture
from India, Persia, and Arabia, and the mighty waves of Europeanism
from the West brought by the Durch. I feel that you have still
the strength to be objective in your attitude to the world—an attitude
which the great Prophet of Islam has prayed for to his God in a
hadith or traditional saying which every man of culture will whole-
heartedly suppors—

“[la’hi’, ari-na’ : haqa’iqa-L-as'ya’i kama hiya”
(My God, show to us the exact nature of things as they are).

I feel also that you are following, even in your language-building
endeavours, che great principles of the Pantja-Sila—the Five Guides
to Conduct—accepting the lead of your President—Bung Karno ot
“Brother Sukarna”, as he has been affectionately and democratically
named. There is che principle of Faith in your own People, in
Kebangsaan, without which no nation can be led to freedom and
advancement, There is Faith in Social Justice—Keadilan, without which
a true democracy cannot be built up. There is the very essential
Desire for Freedom, and ardent and active Faith in Freedom—
Kemerdekaan. There is the spirit of a broad Humanism, a Faith in
Man, a Universal Humanity—Kemanusiaan, which can alone make
for the tolerance of all, and the acceptance of the best that mankind
as a single entity can offer to any individual nation,— a Sense of
Universal Humanity, which is one of the most fundamental things in
civilised life;’ it is in this spirit that you have sought international
co-operation in what would be strictly a national or domestic affair,
by asking scholars and delegates from Holland, France, India, Malaya
and the Philippines to come and to be present; this Kemanusiaan
will enable your Bahasa Indonesia to be human, and universal in
accepting what would be necessary for you for your full self-expression
through speech. And finally, ic is chis Kemanusiaan which leads
you inevitably to a Faith in the God of All Mankind, the great
principle enunciated in your Constitution, which you call in your own
Indonesian Ketubanan. And in chat Faith, which is Indonesia’s, and

Google
Rn The National Language of Indonesia

India’s too, as well of the rest of che world, I close with a prayer in
both Atabic and Sanskrit for the success of your endeavours to give to
yout own people and to the world at large a fine and a potent means
of expression which will most clearly mirror the ideals and aspirations,
the experiences and achievements of the Indonesian Man—
“sihdiona’=+ s+: sita’ sta-L-mustaqi’m” (Lead us along the right
path) and
“asato’_ ma’ sad gamaya” (From the unreal, lead me to the
Real),

Google
Religious Conditions as depicted in the Niya
Documents from Central Asia

By Ratna CHANDRA AGRAWALA

Te was some fifty years ago thac Sir A. Stein, during his archaeo-
logical explorations and excavations in Chinese Turkestan, was able
to unearth and bring to light from age-long oblivion a huge collection
of Kharosthi documents about 782 in number®, These records,
written in Prakyit are available in the shape of small wooden tablets,
leather pieces, silk fragments, paper manuscripts etc. Pertaining to
the everyday activities of the people in the contemporary society as
these documents are, they are able to throw a good deal of light on
the social, religious, political and economic conditions of the region
in the early centuries of the Christian era.

A. Non-Buddbist trends of thought: —

(a) Sacrifices :
Central Asian people had a firm belief in the efficacy of sacrifices
(Skt. Yejfia). The truth of this statement is well corroborated by

* Abbreviations used :—

(l) No.or Kul. = Kbarosthi Inscriptions discovered by Sir A. Stein in
Chinese Turkestan, Oxford, Vols. 1, Il, Il (Text

‘ only).

Trans = Burrow. T., A Translation of the Kbarosthi Documents
from Chinese Turkestan, 1940, London.

Language = Burrow. T., The Language of the Kbarosthi Docu-
ments from Chinese Turkestan, 1937, Cambridge.

BSOS = Bulletin of the School of Oriental and African Studies,
University of London,

1HQ. = Indian Historical Quarterly, Calcutta.

JRAS = Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society, London.

Ske, = Sanskyt.

JBRS = Journal of the Behar Research Society, Patna.

1 At the cuined sites of Niya, Endere and Loulan which were then
included in the Shan.Shan kingdom of Chinese Turkestan.

2 764 documents have been published in three volumes of K.l. while
18 more in BSOS, IX, 1937-9, pp. 111-25, Alll these records have also been
called by the name of Niya Documents.

Google
14 Religious Conditions as depicted in the Niya Documents

various phrases as Yamiia™ kartavya (no. 109), Yaiiam kitemti (no.
195) etc. Cows (cf. go-yaiiah, no. 1573 also a vito cow), sheep
(cf. paburpursa as object to be sactificed in no. 157) and camels?
(cE. uti 2 yamia butamti in no. 383) were sactificed in the Shan Shan
kingdom. It is rather very surprising to note the offering of a cow
for god‘ Bbatro. The latter has been identified by Dr. D. C. Sircar*
with Bhadra (i.e. Siva) of Hindu pantheon. Once it so happened that a
certain person saw in a dream that the cow offered by him at the bridge
had not been accepted by the deity (i.e. go yamiia na padichitaga
devatasa, eda Satogo bbatro devatasa yajeti yamia karamnaya ema
mamtreti, abs samimna® trithemi). Not only that, that particular
fellow saw the deity (in the dream) actually demanding a vito cow
which according to him was to be sacrificed at the farm of a certain
petson called Ekbara Motgeya. Since it was very essential to supply
such an animal (i.e. a vito cow), no slackness was to be tolerated in
the matter’ (no. 157). Next time a parsa sheep was to be sacrificed
likewise (no. 157). That is how the people in those days tried to
appease the gods and pacified their wrath.

It should also be noted that the practice of sacrificing the animals
was nothing new to the people in Central Asia. The Huns used to
offer horses for their istadevatas (W. M. Mcgovern, Early Empires
of Central Asia, Chapelhill, 1939, p- 107). They even mixed wine
with the blood of the sacrificed animals and drank the mixture (thus
prepared) in cups which were made of the skulls of the slaughtered
animals. The Sarmatians were still more callous hearted. Herodotus
records a funny custom prevalent among these barbarians who even
went to the length of sacrificing the human-beings (i.e. their

2a This word occurs in nos, 109, 157, 383.

3 In ancient India, sacrifice of beasts of burden was strictly prohibited
(for details consult Durga Bhigawat, Early Buddbist Jurisprudence, p. 61).

4 Deva ot devatasa, cf. Skt. deva or devata= god.

5 Select Inscriptions, 1942, 1, Calcutta, p. 319. It is of course not
yet possible to identity Bhatro with Bhadra with definiteness.

6 ie. “dream”, cf, Skt. svapna; Language, p. 131; KL, Il, p. 378.

7 It appears that people had faith in “Religious Dreams” and any
demand of their deity, expressed even in dream, was expected to be fulfilled.
That shows the superstitous nature of the people in the contemporary society.

Google V i
Religions Conditions as depicted in the Niya Documents 15

relations who were on the verge of death due to old-age). Just after
the sacrifice, the flesh of both the -animals and the human-beings was
boiled and used for feasting purposes (cf. Mcgovern, op. cit., pp.

56-7).

(b) Hindu gods: —
(i) Reference to Bhatro has already been made above.

(ii) Indra. The phrase imdram vivrdbi abbivarsatu makbi

(iii)

udemtu sasya in no. 511 has been interpreted in different
ways by various scholars, Dr. Burrow (Trans, p. 101;
K.1., I- as cited by Bailey in BSOS, XI, pp. 792-3) likes
to interpret makbi as “lord of sactifiice (cf. Skt. makba=
sacrifice)”. On the other hand, Dr. Bailey (ibid, p. 79);
quoting a stanza (of somewhat similar meaning) from
Hargadeva’s Ratnavali and Priyadarsika (i.e. wrvim
uddama janayatu visrjan vasavo vrstim istam), tries to
suggest that Indra was the “god of rain” and not “of
sacrifice”. Also Dr. Bailey refers to a Khotanese Dbarani
where occurs the word makbiévara cortesponding to Tibetan
mabesvara. This led Dr. Bailey to think that “this same
spelling makbi, mabi must be recognised also in the Niya
document no, 511”. According to Dr, Bailey the
Buddhist Sanskrt verse thus would mean ‘May Indra
rain inctease on the carth, may the crop grow and the
king go forth to victory”. In Indian literature too Indra
has been regarded as the presiding deity of rain and water.
Dr. Burrow (Language, p. 93) conjectures to interpret
the word dhyachiyasa as dryachiyasa and connects the
lateer with tryaksi qualifying “some god (?) Siva (?)*".
But here Burrow is himself not sure about this
suggestion.

(c) Hellenistic Deities: —
The impressions on the clay seals on some of these Kharosthi docu-
ments, under survey, have presented various Hellenistic deities which

8 Siva has been endowed with three eyes.

Google
16 Religions Conditions as depicted in the Niya Documents

were perhaps worshipped by the officers and the persons utilising
those seals. According to A. Stein (On Ancient Central Asian
Tracks, 1933, London, p. 89), ‘the engraved stones from which
these impressions had been made very closely resemble, in their style,
Hellenistic or Roman work of first centuries of our era”. Ie is also
very likely that the impressions of the deities thus appearing on the
clay seals were copied from the Greek and Bactrian coins once preva-
lant in those areas. The clay seals beat testimony to the impressions of
various deities as Pallas, Athne with aegis and thunderbolt in an archaic
manner, Eros standing and seated, Heracles, Athne, Hermes, Zeus etc.

(d) Religious Titles: —

Frequent reference to the phrases as devamanusa sampujitasa (no.
83) etc., for parents and relatives is very interesting indeed. Does
it refer to the conception of the divine qualities present in those per-
sons? But such was not the situation perhaps. It was rather custo-
maty to address by those stylistic and grandiloquent titles. Sometimes
a person was called even a god incarnate? (i.e. pratyacha devate).
As regards the rulers, chey were called the devaputras"® (i.e. Sons of

Heaven).

(©) Acokiggiya (cf. Acokiégiya devatasa in no. 361). The
epithet of devatasa in this phrase is quite obscure. It is not definite
whether it denoted any tribal" or local deity of Chinese Turkestan.

V.  Samanism and Witchcraft: —

The Huns in Central Asia had a considerable number of

9 Ske. Pratyaksa-devata.

10 Prof. F, W. Thomas has discussed in detail the origin and various
problems connected with the epithet deveputra in Indian, Central Asian and
Chinese texts. Cf. article of F. W. Thomas in B.C, Law Volume, 1946, Poona,
I, pp. 305

tx The existenc> of tribal and nature deities in 3x B.C. is evident from
the Chinese sources (CE, E. R. Hughes, Religion of China, 1950, London, p. 52).
Prof. F.W. Thomas (JRAS, 1934, p. 90) refers to some earlier superstitions
(of Central Asian people) including the worship of the Nagas of localities,
rivers and of demons etc.

Google
Religions Conditions as depicted in the Niya Documents 17

Samanas'*, wizards or witch-doctots etc., and the Samanas exercised
great influence over their fellow brethren. The Scythians too had
some faith in magic and thus used to attach sufficient importance to
the wizards in the society (Mcgovern, op. cit., pp. 55, 58, 107 etc).

The witches among the Tartar people continued right up to the
fifth century A.D. (cf. E. H. Parker, A Thousand Years of Tartars,
1924, London, pp. 125, 189). The Kharosthi documents from
Chinese Turkestan too bear testimony to the existence of witches (cf.
kbakborna stri) in those days. But the witches in Niya society could
be tried, punished aud even put to death'*, The condition of witches
in middle ages in Europe was still worse (Encyclopaedia Britannica,
XXII, r4th edition, London and New York, p. 687). On the other
hand, witches in ancient China had very illustrious clients. But the
pages of Chinese history have never been stained by such a mad
epidemic of witch-killing as disgraced in Europe and America in the
17th century (cf. Encyclopaedia of Religion and Ethics, 1915, Edin-
burgh, VIII, p. 260). As regards the Indian" literature, Kautalya
(IV. 4) prescribes punishmene for witchcraft, For all incantations
intended to destroy life, for magic rites and various kinds of raising
ghosts and goblins, a fine of 200 panas (an Indian currency) could
be imposed (Manu, IX 2905 cf. Matsya Purina, 227. 183). Medhi-
tithi and Kulluka even allowed punishment’ for magic rites having
proved successful in a murder case.

Ic is very interesting to note that not a single Kharosthi document
under study ever refers to the justification of the maltreatment meted
out to the kbakborna ladies.

12 Samanism derived from the word samana denotes the native religion
of the Ural-Altaic people from Bering Straits to the borders of Scandinavia,
Te received sufficient set-back from the expansion of Buddhism (Encyclopaedia
of Religion and Ethics, Edinburgh, 1920, XI, p. 440).

13. Cf my article on Position of Women in the Niya Documents in
1HQ., December 1952, pp. 327 ff also BSOS., VII, p. 780 and Language,
p- 86 for the interpretation of the word Khakborna.

14 For details consult P, V. Kane, History of the Dharma-Sastra, 1946,
III, Poona pp. 405-6; Indian Antiquary, XXVIII, pp. 71-83.

3

Google
18 Religions Conditions as depicted in the Niya Documents

() Eating of Flesh and drinking of Wine: —

(i) Document no. 358 informs us that Sudaréana, a monastery-
master (vibaravalasSkt. vibarapala), was in the habit of
“causing much damage to wine crops of his own kilme
(fie or district) people with flesh (mamtsa) and wine
(masu), by reason of the corpses which were given to him’,
Any Indian Buddhist friar or community of monks would
have certainly revolted against such unbecoming activities
of afollower of the Buddha and that too of a responsible
man holding the position of a monastery-master. Prof.
FW. Thomas (Acts Orientalia, XIII, p. 68) also opines
that the use of flesh (in no. 368) was probably adhered”
to gratify the demons or spirits which would have been
inherited from the pre-Buddhist (samanist) religion of
Central Asia”. But it should not be lost sight of that
both meat and wine formed an inseparate part of everyday
meals in the contemporary society of Chinese Turkestan.’
The monks in such countries had to accept whatever was
offered to them as alms by the householders. References
to similar conditions can also be found in the Jaina canoni-
cal literature (J. C. Jaina, Life in Ancient India as depicted
in the Jaina Canons, 1947, Bombay, pp. 127-8). Mose
of the Central Asian Sramanas, having a ptedilection to
non-vegetarian diet, pethaps could not be too particular about
it. A via-media had to be sought if they were prepared to
preach the gospel of the Buddha without suffering the
pangs of hunger and starvation. It is very likely chat the
Niya monks, in taking recourse to meat and wine, adopted
really a practical way of life. It was no wonder then that

15 Sruyati vibaravala yanu kilmemciyana masu-mamtsena sutha vibedeti
vina-(teya dinasi) nisaga of no. 358 as interpreted by F. W. Thomas (Acta
Orientalia, XIII, pp. 67 ff). Dr. Burrow (Trans, p. 70) on the other hand,
finds no reference to the flesh of corpses being ever supplied to the monastery-
master.

16 Three kinds of meat were taken to be pure and Hence were ordained.
For details see Travels of Itsing, edited by Takakusu, pp. 58-9.

Google wy joan

Religious Conditions as depicted in the Niya Documents 19

they used wine etc., (nos. 431-2, 652, 345). Moreover
it should also be noted that these monks were not coming
up to the ideal standard of an Indian Buddhist sramana,
They were very frequently indulging in all sorts of worldly
activities.!” What wonder then that they failed to adhere
to the strict vegetarian diet also,

(ii) Prof. F. W. Thomas (Acta Orientalia, XIII, p. 68) further
comments on no. 358 and adds that the use of flesh (in
no. 358) was probably adhered to gratify the demons or
spitits, which would have been inherited from the Pre-
Buddhist (Samanist) religion of Central Asia”. It is not
yet certain whether the offerings of the cows and sheep (no.
157, already referred to above) had any association with
the samanist tendencies as prevalent in the contemporary
times.

(iii) Also the documents refer to che hunting of mares (no.
13) and stags (no. 509) though it is not clear whether
their flesh too could be utilised for eating purposes. Dr.
H. W, Bailey even interprets the word (maka) of the
documents as ‘flesh used as food” (BSOS, XI, p. 797).
The soldiers in Chinese Turkestan expressed no hesitation
even in eating the meat of a cow (no. 1,676). The Scy-
thians (members of a nomadic tribe of Central Asia) were
in the habit of cating beef, mutton and horse-flesh
(Mcgovern, op. cit, p. 44). Not only that, meat in
the Niya society was even offered to the animal while
Jamumtaraya (no. 252) was perhaps some animal living
on meat diet (Trans, p. 47, note of no. 252).!* A certain
person, in no. 514 speaks very highly of.meat-eating when
he says “Thousands of jars of ghee and hundreds of jars of
oil are not worth a sixteenth part of one piece of meat
in my opinion” i.e. ghrita-kumba sabasrani tela-kumba

17 Cf. my article about the life of these monks in the Laksmana Swaripa
Commemoration Volume, i.e. Sariipa Bharati, 1954, Hoshiarpur, pp. 173-81.
18 i.e., Samuda rayana kbayana mamtsa dadavo; cl. Language, p. 125.

Google enon
20 Religious Conditions as depicted in the Niya Documents

Satani ca ekisya mamtsa-gamdasya kathamana me sodasa
1) in no. 514.

(iii) Vagdbiga was perhaps some kind of regular festival (held
on the mountains) in which wine was to be consumed (nos.
622," 634,7° 675%"); Cf. Language, p. 120. Wine
thus spent sometimes amounted to 6 milimas (some weight
standard the identification being quite obscure). From
no. 637 it appears that once che festival under reference
was held in the 11th year of king Ma

"s reign,

B. Buddhist Creed and Philosophy: —

The documents, under study, furnish sufficient details about the
problems concerning the lives of Buddhist monks? and the sacred
Buddhist philosophy preached in Chinese Turkestan. People in these
regions were fully conversant with the rules of discipline (Vinaya),
Buddhist creed and the related ceremonies. As regards the
penetration of the Buddhist lore in Central Asia and the neighbouring
countries, the myths and legends assign third century B. C. as the
probable date of the first Chinese contact with Indian Buddhist
missionaries.2? It was in year 2 B,C. that certain Buddhist texts
were said to have been presented for the first time by an Indo-
Scythian ruler to the Chinese Emperor (P. C, Bagchi, op. cit., 1944+

19 ie, “this wine must be taken to the mountain and a vasd
made there: —esa masu parvatammi gimnidave vasdhiga kartavo”.

20 ie. By you 6 milimas of wine are to be brought out (provided) and
Cito Cakuvala has to go with you to the mountain to make vasdhiga (ie.
tue masw milima 6 nikbalidave, Cgito Cakuvala tabi sadba parvatammi

iga be

gamtavo vasdbiga karamnae).

2x ie. “Kala Kirteya came here to Cadota (ic. the Niya site) and made
a vasdhiga onthe mountain (je. Kala Kirteya ita agata Cadotammi parva
vasdbiga krta). This document also refers to vasdhiga as another
cf, vasdhigaim corn in no. 140, Trans., p. 25.

22 A summary of this topic has been published by; me in the Laksmana
Swariip Commemoration Volume, Hoshiarpur, pp. 173-81.

23 For details consult P, C. Bagchi, India and China, 1927, p. 5; ibid,
1947, p. 7; S. Beal, Buddbism in China, p. 47; IHQ., 1, 1925, p. 540 fn. 35
Elliot, Hinduism and Buddbism, Ill, p. 245 etc.

Google iN
Religious Conditions as depicted in the Niya Documents 21

p- 3)24 Some centuries later, Dharmakala (an Indian scholat) reached
China and translated the Pratimoksa (i.e. Vinaya Texts) of the Maba-
sirghika School to which he himself probably belonged (P. K.
Mookerjee, Indian Literature in China and Far East, Calcutta, p.22).
In the times of Fahien (3-4th centuries A. D.). Central Asian tollowers
of Lord Buddha were seen studying the Indian books and conversing
in that language (S. Beal, Travels of Fabien and Sung Yun, 1869,
London, p. 5).

1, Various terms for Sublimated Stages: —
(A) Lord Buddha has been addressed as: —

(i) Budba (Cf. budba®*—bhagava, no. 511)=Skt. buddha “the
enlightened one”. As regard the epithet bhagava, it is
identical with Ske. bbagavat. In the Buddhist works,
the qualifications®®* of a bhagavd are enumerated as
follows: —issariya (i.e. anima etc.), dbamma (transcendental
virtues), yasa (pure fame of universal recognition), siri (all
round accomplishment), kama (all objects of desite, and
payatana (supreme “effort to gain sovereignty over all).
According to Rhys Davids (Pali Dictionary, s. v. budba),
Buddba is styled as bhagava or “Mord” in his role of a

pre-eminent man, Rhys Davids also quotes the phrase
buddbo se bhagava occuting in the Petavatthw, XI. 9 and
the Majjbimanikaya, 1. 235.

(2) Gautama*’ (CE. gotami grabiya vastra in no. 511).

(3) Sugata (no. 511).

(4) Tathagata*® (no, 511). According to Rhys Davids (op. cit.,

24 CE, also Francke’s article as quoted in JRAS., 1914, p. 353 fn. 35
THQ., op. cit.

25 Only budba in nos. 399, 510.

26 D.C. Siccar, Select Inscriptions, Calcutta, 1942, 1, p. 219, fn. 3.

27 Cf. Bailey (BSOS., XIII, p. 407) citing Sogdian K'wd'm, godama,
Kwt'm ete.

28 E.J. Thomas has discussed the two words tathagata and tathagaya in
detail in BSOS., VIII, pp. 781-8,

Google iN
22 Religious Conditions as depicted in the Niya Documents

sv. tathagata) the word has not been found in any
pre-Buddhist work and it is an epithet of an arbant.

(B) Arbamta (no. 399), cf. Vedic arbant=“deserving”. At the
time of the rise and expansion of Buddhism, arbat_ was applied
to all the ascetics in general. An arbat has been described to
possess a great many virtues as is evident from the following

verse? : —

wag fraceniearet terrain: |
aarfuerdargt @ ashy TATE th

To the Buddhists it came to mean ‘one who had attained the
sammum bonum of religious aspiration (i.e. nibbina; cf. Rhys
Davids, op.cit.). Gautama Buddha, before taking the vow of
Bodhisattva, was in one of his incarnations, the arbat called Sumedha
(Alllice Getty, Gods of Northern Buddhism, 1928, Oxford, p. 174).
Chinese lo-ban, Pali arhat or arabat are all designations of the perfect
Grya i.e. one who has passed the different stages of the Noble-path
and who is not to be reborn again. Arhatship implies pessession of
certain supernatural powers. In the “Sitra of 42 Sections’, Lord
Buddha goes to say that “the arabat is able to fly, change his
appearance, fix the years of his life, shake the heaven and the earth
etc., (S. Beal, Travels’ of Fabien and Sungyun, op.cit., p. 19 fn. 1).
In Canton (China), no temple is better worth a visit than that of
500 Lo-ban (or Arbat).*°

(©) Konagamuni (00. 510).

The opithet budhasya konagamunisya in the above document
(no. 510) needs comparison with budbasa konakamanasa’ (=Skt.
buddbasya kanaka-muneb) of the Agokan inscription where Dharmaraja
Afoka is said to have doubled the size of the stipa of Kanakamuni
Buddha. This stitpa, being a Buddhist tirtha, was visited by Yuan-
Chwang who also noticed the Asokan pillar with an inscription.

2g Ascited by D.C. Sircar, op. cit., p. 118 fn.
30 James Legge, A Record of the Buddbistic Kingdoms, 1886, Oxford,

p. 24 fn. 3.
31 CED. Sircar. op. cit. p. 71.

Google

Religions Conditions as depicted in the Niya Documents 23

Kanaka-muni was a buddha (Sircar, D. C., op. cit, p. 71
n. 5). According to Dr. R.K. Mookerjee (Asoka, 1928, p. 205
1.3), Kanakamuni was the name of one of the 24 Buddhas and the
third to precede Gautama Buddha. In the Khotanese language too
we have a similar word as Kanakaméfia (Bailey’s note in BSOS, IX,

P+ 531).

(D) Pratyeka-buddba (no. 511).
Ie is really interesting to find all che qualitics*® of a pratyeka-

buddba enumerated at one place in no. 511 ie.

(a) who exists in himself (vivegam-aérita).

(b) who has sought solitude (ekabbiramam).

(c) who takes delight in mountain caves (giri kamtarilaya).

(d) who is devoted to his own aims (sva karyayukta).

(©) who is delighted in continence and virtue (Samathe gune

rata)

(E) Bodbisattva.

The phrases like pracacha bodbisattua (=Skt. pratyaksa
bodhisattve) are very common in the Niya documents, Ie is thus
evident that people in Central Asia were not unaware of the conception

of a Bodbisattua*? (cf, F, W. Thomas, Acta Orientalia, XUl, p.59)-

(F) Tina (nos. 511 obv; 510 rev.).

The word Jina in Jaina literature has been used as an epithet of
the Jaina tirthankars. It is derived from Skt. root ji (=to conquer)
and hence Jina is one who has mastery over his local self. In che
opinion of Rhys Davids (op. cit., s, v. Jina), the word can also be
interpreted to mean “the Buddba”. ”

Il. Belief in the Doctrine of Lord Buddha: —
It was believed that the doctrine of the Buddha (sugatadhama,**

32 CE, Trans. p. 100 for the translation of the verse in no. 511.

33. ie, One who is destined to attain enlightenment; cf, Rhys Davids,
op. cit.

34. It is earnestly desired (in this document, no. 511) that the king may

Google
24 Religious Conditions as depicted in the Niya Documents

marga-sugate and tathagata-dbama in no. 511), if put into practice,
.e. “all che creatures those

was sure to produce its sublimating effec
exist, on entering the path of the Tathagata,*® make an end to the
cycle of birth and death” (ye upapamna satua tatbagatanam upagamya
Sasane karemti jati maranasya®® anta; Trans, p. 100). That is why
prayers for abiding by the law of the Blessed one were frequently
made no. 511. cf. ciram sa dhamasugata tisthatu).

The Jinas and the Tathagatas in no. 511 are stated to have been
taking delight in the good of the beings (bitersina). They were also
endowed with the vision of Supreme Truth (paramartha*'-dargana).
Great reverence is shown for the Jinas, the Tatbagatas and che
Pratyeka-buddbas (no, 511). Paramartha-darfana (no. 511) and
Brabma-carita (no. 399) were the highest ideals worth being cherished
and lived for.

Ill. Buddbist Heaven: —

A. Stein (Ancient Khotan, Oxford, 1907, p. 367) thinks chat
no. 399 (i.e. N. XVI, 2) perhaps enumerates, various sacred categories
of Buddhist’ heaven.

IV. Baddbist literature: —

Reference to the three sacred Pitgkas** has also been made in no.

511 (cf. pidakani samapta trini). The first Chinese edition of the

long abide in the law of the Blessed-One:—pirthiva ciram sa dbama
sugatasya tisthatu.

35 CE. abbim na marga sugate paripalayamti dukba ca dukba prabbava
ca, Reference is also made to the “‘nirodba-marga” in the next sentence.
CE, KL, III, p. 320 fn. 5.

36 It is not possible to account for a statement (in no. 399) wherein it
is specifically narrated that “death is something beyond the powers of a
Buddba, or a Pratyekabuddba or an Arbat ot a universal ruler (na Sakya kartw
budba, na pratyeka-budba, na arbantana, na rayacakravarti, sarvi pariniyamti)".

37 CE. Skt. paramartha=Pali paramattha=“highest good, truth in the
ideal sense of the term, Arbatship”—according to Rhys Davids (op. cit., s. v.
paramattba),

38 In document no, 510 Rev. are some indistinct verses from the
Dhamma-pada; cf. K1., Il, pp. 184-5.

Google

Religions Conditions as depicted in the Niya Documents 25

Tripitakas in manuscript form (and not printed) was collected in year
518 A. D. (Elliot, Hinduism and Buddbism, Ill, p. 254).

V. Nisaga: —

The document No. 358 seems to refer to the word nisaga in the
sense of “bare necessities of life” but Dr. Burrow (Trans. pp. 70-1)
tries to identify it with Pali nissaya meaning “the fundamental
requisites of life”. He also thinks that the word nisaga was imported
from the Pali sources but it is too early to say anything with
definiteness. The Vinaya (1.58) and the Mabavagga (1. 30), as
cited by Rhys Davids (op. cit.), refer to four resources®® of a bhiksu
(Buddhist monk).

VI, Belief in the efficacy of *‘Religions-baths” : —

Document no. 511 enumerates the praises of “hot air baths’”°,
the health giving virtues of which are celebrated with real enthusiasm
(cf. KE, 111, p. 295). In the soth and rooth Avadinas (op. cit.
vols, I and II), there is a reference to a particular kind of bath
called the “Hot Air Bath” (Jentaka Snatra; cf. KB, Ill, p. 321).
Thus a Buddhist saint and his disciples are invited by the head of a
monastery “to a meal and also to a hot-air-bath on the morrow: Sve
bbaktena Jentaka snatrena copa-mantritah sarddham bbiksu-sanghena
cf. KI., Ill, p. 321). The same work‘! furnishes further details
about these baths where as many as 500 monks bathed in the hot and

39 ie. To live by begging; to wear rags thrown on dust heap; to live
under a tree ; to use cow’s urine as medicine.

40. ie. Jandaka-satra (no, 511) of the phrase “Yo bhichugane upasthita
jandaka satra”.

Sitra (no. 511) or Sana (no. 646)=Skt. sndna=snatra of the Avadna
Sataka (edited by Speyer, vol. 1, p. 286 n. 6; cf. KL., Ill, p. 321 where
Rapson cites Bobtlingk’s Dictionary, VII 218 quoting Pirivanatha Kavya
IIL. 155. According to Dr. H. W. Bailey (BSOS., XIII, p. 389) sndtra is also
to be found in a Skt. text from Kuci. Here Dr. Bailey also refers to Lifders
in Weitere Beitrage, 1930, p. 93 cf. Monier Williams, A Skt. Eng. Dictionary,
1899, Oxford, p. 1266. Hence sapaka (no. 511) is taken as snapaka,

41 Avadina Sataka, edited by J. S. Speyer, vol. II, 1909, Petersbourg
p. 205.

4

Google inv
26 — Religious Conditions as depicted in the Niya Documents

perfumed water: pafica bbiksw Satani jentaka snatrenopamantrita
tatastena nana-gandhaparibbavitamugnedakam krtua te bbiksavab
snpitas civarakani Sobbitini. Mr. Speyer (op. cit., Il, p. 227)
interprets the word Jentaka‘® as a “sudatory room” and Jentaka snatra
as ‘a sweating room”. The Caraka Sambita*® (I, XIV. 25 cited in
KI., op. cit.) refers to the word Jentaka which means a bath room
in which air was heated by the charcoal fire: —

Bhugrbesu ca jentakesisna-garbba-grhesu ca, vidbamangaratap-
tesvabbyaktab svidyati na sukbam. In the Indian Buddhist literature
we find references to the construction of the bathing places (Jantaghara)
and the bathing rooms (JantagbaraSala).**

The Niya document (no. 511 obverse) attaches great importance
to the gifts in matters pertaining to baths*, In the works con-
nected with baths, it isan example of good action (imasmi danavara
dana uktam jandaka kama Sukrtya nidarsana) and the most excellent
of the gifts. One, who is fortunate to avail the privilage of perform-
ing the bath of Ganottama*® in accordance with the works connected
with it, becomes: —

(1) pure in eyes (vitudba cachw bbavati);

(2) bright in voice (prabha svara);

(3) pure in limbs (visudha gatra);

(4) tender and good complexioned (sukbumala sucati);

(5) long lived (ciram ca ays labbati);

(6) free from boils, pimples, elephantisis (?) or itch (na tasya
gamda*’ pitaka bhavamti);

42 CE, Jettaka strtra and jantaka stztra as discarded readings in volume
of the Avadanatataka, p. 286, n. 6. According to Monier Williams (op. cit,
p- 424) jentaka=“a dry hot bath”.

43. Cf. also Caraka Sambita, edition of Narendra Sistri, Lahore, 1929,
1. XIV. 28, 39, 46 etc., for details about the site of such bath-rooms.

44 For details consult Dutt, N., Early Monastic Buddbism, I, 1941,
Calcutta, p. 285.

45 CE. Trans., pp. 100-1 for the translation of no. 511(oby.) here.

46 CE. Trans., p. rox, note of no. 511 for this name.

47 CE Language, p. 87, In the Avadana Sataka (op. cit., I, 168 (i), p.
226), gamda means “roga, latya and agha”.

Google

Religious Conditions as depicted in the Niya Documents 27

(7) pure and acquires a sweet smelling body (sci sugamdba
labbati);

(8) big eyed (vifala netra);

(9) golden limbed and of a pleasing aspect (suvarna gatra
abbirapadarsani); ctc., etc.

Ic is further prayed that ‘those who make gifts on this point may
enjoy reward and let them be perpetually enlightened (etasmi abbyam-
dare ye atita (jinorasa tepi bhavamtu pujita).’”

Also there is a reference to the bathing of monks in these baths.
The Niya document (no. 511 obverse) also refers to the mighty couch
of these baths when it runs thus—‘May the monks, who bathe in the
Jamdaka baths, honour and love their teachers, be pure in their current
“duties, with minds free from hatred (or faule)”” (imasmi yo bhichw
gane upasthita jamdaka guru prema garava vydvuca kamana bbavartu
niméla prabinedosa pagatena cetasa).

In relation to these baths ‘one who provides material for the
removal of dirt or who donates oil for rubbing and one who provides a
dry-bath be free from fault and impurity” :— imasmi jamdaka mala
prakarsana pradavyaka-sipaka, taila-dayaka, Ya labba jamdaka dedati
Sushaka, bhavamtn nirdosa mala prabina. cis now evident that
donations of oil used to be made for the purpose and there was
arrangemene for a dry bath (cf. jentaka= “a dry hot bath” as inter-
preted by Monier Williams, op. cit., p. 424) too.

VIL. Buddhist Ceremonies: —

(1) Posatha (no. 489). The monks, who were just novices
in che monasteries, were not very particular about the rules
and regulations concerning the posatha ceremony. That
is why the Central Saigha. had to devise means of punish-
ing such monks who proved themselves careless in attending
the posatha ceremony or even those who joined it in the
garb of a houscholder (no. 489). From the Indian litera-
ture we come to know that the Buddhist monks were
required to attend such assemblies in their proper dress

48 CE. posatha kamaya here, Dr. Burrow (Language, p. 23) likes to
interpret the phrase as “rite of fasting”.

Google ;

28 Religious Conditions as depicted in the Niya Documents

though there were some lapses too (cf. N. Dutt, Early
Monastic Buddhism, I, 1941, Caleutta, p. 291).

Posatha (Pili posatha, Vedic Upavasatha—cited by Rhys Davids,
op. cit.) was a very importance ceremony in the Buddhist monastic way
of life. At the time of the rise of Buddhism, the word came to mean
“the day preceding 4 stages of moon's waxing and waning i.e. a weekly
sacred day, a sabbath”. These days were utilised (by pre-Buddhist
communities) for expounding their sacted views. Following the above
non-Buddhist custom, Lord Buddha too (at the instance of king
Bimbisira) introduced fortnightly sittings of the monks, either on the
14th or 15th day. Discussion abour che Dhamma (doctrine), Vinaya
(monastic discipline and injunctions) and recitation of the rules con-,
cetning the Patimokkba (cf. pratimokkha of the Kbarosthi document
no, 510) formed the agenda of such gatherings.

Ir was on the Uposatha days chat laymen used to take Uposatha
vows i.e. the 8 Silas (Vows of Holy-pach and Righteousness) during the
day time, At the time of the occasional Uposatha, called the Semaggi
Uposatha, reconciliation between quarrelsome monks in the monasteries
used to be attived at‘*, (ii) Pratimokkba (no. 510)=Pali patimokbba’
Ske. pratimoksa. It was in 65 A. D. that Dharmaraksa and KaSyapa
Mataiga went and stayed in the White Horse Monastery at Lo-Yang
(modern Honan), From that time the monastery activities began to
flourish in China, with the resule that out of a group of five persons work-
ing there in the thitd century A. D., one scholar (Dharmapala by name)
translated the Patimokkba into Chinese for the first time™® (Elliot,
Hinduism and Buddbism, Ul, p. 249). He also argued that previously
only few had followed the monastic life**””. The Vinaya followed in those

49 Hall or Chapel inside the monastery, in which the Patimokkha used
tobe recited, was called Uposathaggama or Uposathagaram; while Uposatha
service was designated as Uposathakamma. Posathakamaya of our document

(no. 489) is thus an important phrase.

50 Cf. Ibid., p. 249 m. 1 quoting Nanjio, p. 386. Dharmakila had
translated the Pratimoksa of the Mabastaghika School (P. K. Mookerjec,
op. cit., pp. 22, 59)-

51 Similar conditions are also depicted in the Kbarosthi documents under
study.

Google JNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
Religions Conditions as depicted in the Niya Documents 29

early days of Chinese Buddhism was apparently chat of Dharmagupta
sect. (ibid, p. 249, f. n, 13 cf. Journal Asiatique, II, 1916, p. 40). Elliot
(op. cits, p. 249 n. 1) also informs us that ‘An-shih-kao™, in 150
A. D., translated a work called the “3000 Rules for Monks” (Nanjio,
1126) but it isnot clear what was the “Sanskrit Original”. The
““Satra of 42 Sections” (as translated into the Chinese language in the
first century A.D.) gives vivid picture of the development of
of Buddhism in India from the passing of Gautama Sakya-Muni
down to the first century A. D. (P. K. Mookerjee, Indian Literature
in China and the Far East. op. cit., p, 8).

VILL Vinaya-rules in Central Asia and China: —

Ie is from the middle of the first century A.D, that we begin to
hear of the monks and laity (wpasakas) living in the court of a royal prince
then ruling in the Yang-tse-kiang (Bagchi, P. C., India and China,
1927, p. 7): We also learn chat it was during Kaniska’s reign that
“not only India but Afghanistan and Bactria were filled with Buddhist
monks and monasteries” (Mcgovern, W.M., Early Empires of Central
Asia, Chapelhill, 1939, p. 253). The Later Han Annals inform us
that the Prince of Chu was a devotee of Buddhism and that there
were numerous Sramanas and upasakas in theit country (Chavannes,
T'oung Pao, 1905, pp. 519-71 as cited by P. K. Mukherjee in
THQ, 1, 1952, p. 5403 Elliot, op. cit., p. 245 quoting p. 540 of
Chavannes), It was in the 3rd or th century A.D. that Serindian
monks from the monastery of Loyang were busy in preaching the
sacred lore of the Master in the country of China (P. K. Mookherjee,
Indian Literature......, p. 24). From the reign of Yao-shing (379-
415 A.D.) Buddhism came to be recognised as che state-religion in
China (Alice Getty, Gods of Northern Buddbism, p. xxviii).

“Till the third century A.D. the Buddhist works, that were
transl ated, consisted mainly of the Satras of Agama literature. No
important work on Vinaya or discipline had yet been made known
to the Chinese Buddhists. The early translators had only spoken of
the file or morality (also in.no, 511 Rev. of the Niya document) and

52 A Parthian prince who preached Buddhism in Ancient China.

Google iN OF MICH
30 Religious Conditions as depicted in the Niya Documents

were contented with a mere sowing of the seed. Reference to
Dharmakala (a native of Central India) who reached China in 222
A.D. and translated “the Pratimoksa®* of the Mabasanghika School”
has already been made above (P. K. Mookherjee, Indian Literature

ves p. 22 ff)."" “But monastic life had not yet come to be appre-
ciated among the Chinese Buddhists because it was opposed to the
traditional ethics of China. Tue study of Vinaya was not seriously
taken up before ewo centuries” (ibid., p. 22). Dharmakila was
also responsible for the translation of che Vinaya Karmavicd according
to the Dharmagupea School (Nanjio, 1163). There is an old tradi-
tion about the introduction of the Dharmagupta Vinaya in year 168
A.D. but this has been doubted by some scholars. The Karmavaca
was further rendered into the Chinese language by another monk of
the age ie. Tan-wa-ti (or Dharmasatya)—a Parthian monk who
came to Fo-yang in 254 A.D. (ibid. p. 23).” Another <cholar
Dharmodhi came to China during the reign of Fu-k’ien (357-84
A.D.) and translated some Vinaya Texts of the Sarvastivadins but
now they are all lost (ibid., p, 69).

“Inspite of the intellectual appreciation of the Buddhist view of
life by the Chinese, the idea of Sarigha and the discipline (Vinaya)
was neither followed®* seriously nor understood properly. Therefore
Vinaya was a neglected subject among the Chinese Buddhists. This
led Fahien to proceed to India to study the working of the Church-
organisation. He brought a number of Vinaya works with him,,,...
(ibid., p. 59)”.

“As regatds Central Asia, An-Hiuen (a Parthian) came to Loyang
in 181 A.D, The Chinese collaborator of An-Hiuen was Yen-fo
tiao, It is said of him that he had studied che original language of

Buddhism and could recite the entire Prétimoksa without the help of
a Chinese translation. He further wrote a work on the Vinaya for the

guidance of the Chinese monks” (ibid., pp. 18 ff.)

53 This translation is now lost.
54 That seems 4 be the reason why the existing Kharosthi documents
from Niya too refer to the worldly life of the Central Asian Monks.
Religions Conditions as depicted in the Niya Documents 31

IX. Existence of Mabayana Sect :—

Speaking of the state of Buddhism in the kingdom of Shan Shan
(from where the Kbarosthi documents have been unearthed) in the
contemporary times (ie. 4th century A.D.), Fahien®* goes to say
that “The king of this country is well affected to the law of the
Buddha. In the dominions are about 4000 priests, all of whom
belong to the religious system known as the Little Vehicle**,
Common people and the Samanas of this and the neighbouring king-
doms all follow the religious customs of India, only some more exactly
than the others. All the kingdoms westward from this as a rule
have the same characteristics except that their languages differ. All
the followers of Buddha (parajarwikas)"" however practise in them-
selves reading Indian books and conversing in that language.”

The Niya document no. 390 may refer to still earlier religious
trends of the region. It is very interesting to note the epithets used
for a certain high official here. The latter is addressed as “one who
has set forth in the Mabayana Sect (mabayana samprastita)”. This
led Dr. Sten Konow (Acta Orientalia, I, 1923, p. 14x) to conclude
that “during king Mayiri’s reign (a contemporary of Kaniska in 126
A.D.)** we find distinct indications that the Mabayana sect had been
established in the Southern Oasis for we know from N. XXIV, vii.
8o that he was the king under whom Cojbbo** Samasena is designa-
ted mabayana samprastita”. Prof. F. W, Thomas agrees with the
above views of Dr. Konow and puts forth a possibility chat an in-
clination to Mahayana may have been the root cause of the trouble
which in no. 399 is seen to threaten that official” (Acta Orientalia,
XII, p. 60). Does it then mean that the Hinayana (or Little Vebicle)
was the most prevailing sect and that the other religious trends were
not yet tolerated? Prof. Thomas also likes to add that ‘the statement

55 S. Beal, Travels of Fabien and Sung Yun, 1869, London, p. 5.

56 ile. Hinayana which is quite different from the Mabayana sect.

57 Pethaps the same as parvaitasa of the Kharosthi Dhammapada from
Central Asia; cf. Language, p. 6.

58 According to Dr. Sten Konow.

59 Atitle.

Google
32 Religions Conditions as depicted in the Niya Documents

that the Shan Shan Buddhism in Fahien’s times was Hinaydna is not
invalidated, perhaps by the complimentary expression ‘visible bodbi-
sattva” applied to two individuals (nos. 288, 698) ”

Besides that, Prof. Thomas also tries to trace some refetnce to
a Mabiyana text in the above document when he says (bid), “Ic is
true that the document is fragmentary...,.,.But che phraseology sw
(vam)-niya krta (namarika) and suvamniya nama sitra is strongly
suggestive of a book (in case written as the scribe’s tax, pali);** and
a Mabiyina Suvarna Siitra, different from che Suvarna Prabbasa,
exist in a Tibetan version (Beckh’s Catalogue of the Bkab-bgyur,
Index)”.

All the above views need further ‘scrutiny and investigation. Ie
is not plausible to propound conclusive views on the basis of this scanty
evidence. Future discoveries may throw some light on this important

problem.

X. Buddhist Shrines in the Niya documents (?):—

The contents of a document (no. 399) are very interesting. Here
reference is made to the death of a certain person when two Buddhist
monks expiate the bereaved person with a pious function which runs
thus “all come to the same end. Care must be taken how we go,
virtuous acts performed and purity maintained.” The led A, Stein
(Ancient Khotan, 1907, Oxford, p. 365 fn.) to conjecture that “the
ruined structure N, XVI adjoining N. V was a Buddhist Shrine. Is it
possible that one ot other of these monks was the attendent of the
shrine as well as the scribe who penned the drafts”? Te was from
that very findspot that A. Stein also discovered some wooden images
on the first step formed by the rivetment of the platform. Along the
same edge of the platform was found well preserved akbti-shaped
tablet N. XVI. 2. This initiated the renowned scholar to postulate a
hypothesis chat ‘that isolated small structure had served as a shrine,
similar in character to the small cell as of Dandanwilig.°° The fact chat

59a For the interpretation of this term consult my paper on “State of

Taxation in the Niya documents” in IHQ., December 1953, pp. 340-53-
60 A place in Chinese Turkestan.

Google "VERSIE \

Religions Conditions as depicted in the Niya Documents 33

one portion of the text in N. XVI. 2 contains a letter from two
Sramanas tends to confirm this supposition.”

Ie is regretting to note chat in our documents no reference whatso-
ever is made either to the temples or to any images ever being

worshipped therei
XL. Buddhist Monks and the Sangha :

Skt. Sramana*® ot Pali samana has been denoted by variants Sramana
or Sramamna, Srammana ot Srammamna of the Niya documents (ct.
Kucati samane and Khotani samana®® as cited in JRAS., 1914, p-
353)-  Samanera®® (no. 288) appears to be the same as Samaneriye
occurring in the Andhau inscription of Saka chiefs Castana and-
Rudradiman then ruling in India. The latter (ise. Samaneriye) has
been interpreted as ‘‘a person who has already been admitted into
priesthood of the Buddhist church after going through the ceremony
called pabbajja but not yet received the upasampada. He becomes
a fully privileged monk after receiving the upasmpada (D. C. Sircar,
Select Inscriptions, 1942, I, Calcutta, p. 169, foot note 1).

The phrase sramamna bramamna (no. 554) specifically refers to
the existence of Buddhist monks (éramamna) side by side with the
priests of che Brahmanical faith (bramamna'¢=Skt. brabmana). Dr.
Burrow (Language, p. 109) does not like to agree with this view. He
thinks that bramamna in no. 554 is taken ‘as an indefinite phrase

out of Buddhist literary usage rather than indicating the presence of
Brahmins in Central Asia”. No doubt the documents under study

Goa It is also not possible to determine whether Lord Buddha used to
be worshipped (in human form) by Central Asian people at this stage.

-61 Sramana denoted any monk in the beginning. It was later on that it
came to be used exclusively for the Buddhist and the Jaina monks. For details see
Durga Bhagavat, Early Buddbist Jurisprudence, Poona, pp. 12-13, p. 14 fn. 3.

62 Also Sramam (no. 252, Language, p. 4), samana in no. 516; cf. BSOS.,
VIIL, p. 610, XI, p. 789, XIII. p. 166, IX. p. 89; Language, p. 14; JRAS., 1935,
p- 671. For variants in Niya documents consult KZ, Ill, p. 373+

63 Cf. H. W. Bailey, BSOS,, XI. p. 789, XIII. p, 130. The word means
a “novice”.

64 Also no. 514 referring to brammana ot brammna. Dr, H. W. Bailey
(BSOS., XI, pp. 787-9) has already discussed the wide use of the Ske. word
brabmana in various languages of Central Asia and China.

° Google 4
34 Religious Conditions as depicted in the Niya Documents

refer to the prevalence of Buddhism in the state of Shan Shan, then
comprising the sites of Niya, Endere and Loulan. Bue these very
records bear testimony to the knowledge of Indra-cult which comes
within the range of the Brahmanical pantheon. The Central Asian
people knew well that Indra was the presiding deity of rain and water
(cf. a prayer as Indram vivrdbi abbivarsatw: in no. 511). Future
discoveries are badly awaited to throw some more light on the problem
of the existence of Brabmana philosophy prior to the penetration of
Buddhism in Chinese Turkestan. Bhatro devatasa (no. 157) may be
taken to be identical with god Bhadra (i.e. Siva) of Hindu religion.

The documents also refer to some other words used for the
Buddhist friars such as bhuchu (no. 703) or bhichu** (nos, 322, 511,
419. 4773 cf. Ske. bbiksu; IRAS, 1934, p. 261), tera (no. 419) or
sthaira (no. 511; Language, p. 933 cf. Skt. sthavira, Pali thera) etc.
Not only that, document no. 511 refers to the stages of the monks in an
ascending order i.e. navaka, madbya, and sthaira (cl. sthaira ca madbya
navaka ca bbichu in this document). The novices (navaka in nos. 489,
511) were not very much disciplined (no. 48g) though they used to
live inside the monasteries** in the company of the jethas (n0. 477),
the urdbas (no, 489) and the vibarapilas (ize. vibaravala of no. 358).
Te is interesting to note that the monks thus living inside the vibaras
were quite immune from the dirty politics of the wordly life or
political upheavals, The community of monks (bbichusamgha’™ in
nos. 419, 489; cf. Ske, bbiksu saigha) had its separate existence.
They were quite independent of the state interference though they
could seek state help if they stood in need of it (no. 489). But it
all depended on their private enterprise and not otherwise.

Ik is also interesting to note the distinction between a householder

65 Cf. bhichw gana (or gane) in no. 511.

66 Cf. Vibara (nos. 358, 489) and sangerama (no. 345). They are the
same as Skt. vibara and sangharama respectively. Cf. Agnean wayara=Skt.
vibira (BSOS., XI, p. 792). For Central Asian words identical with saigharama,
see BSOS., IX. 532, XI, 790; ébid., XIII. 166 for vibara in the Ceylonese
literature, The word Bukhara itself means the Buddhist vibara (BSOS., IX,
p. 646, fn. 1).

67 Also bhichw samga in no, 489, bhighu samgha in no. 322, bbuchu
samga in no. 703.

Google
Religions Conditions as depicted in the Niya Documents 35

(ie. gribasta in no. 489=Skt. grbastha) and a monk living in a
monastery. The latter was not allowed to attend the posatha
ceremony in case he happened to be garbed in che dress of a
householder.

The Kharosthi Dhammapada from Central Asia tefers to the word
parvaitasa which has been interpreted by Dr. Burrow as equivalent of
pravrajitasya (Language, p. 6) ie. one who has left his home and leads
the life of a friar. Fahien, the famous Chinese pilgrim visiting
Central Asia in che Gupta period, had noted the existence of the
parajarwikas (=followers of the Buddha) as distinct*® from the
samanas (Travels of Fabien and Sung-Yun, edited by S. Beal, 1869,
London, p. 5). The Niya documents do not seem to have depicted
the existence of this class of people.

Reference to the Elders (Jethas and Vrdhas==Skt. Jyesthas and
Vrddbas respectively) inside the monasteries has already been made
above. In the latter case, the word urdha precedes the phrase ratu
bbichu (cf. urdba ratu bbichu). Hee ratu seems to have been
derived from Avestan ratw, Pablavi rat (Language, p. 113) meaning
“judge or authority.” Prof. F. W. Thomas (deta Orientalia, XIl,
p. 62 n.2) also refers to Ske. rat (= true speech).

XIL Entry into the Sangha: —

The opening verse of no. 511 Reverse exhorts the monks to
listen with rapt attention (sarva ekamanasa™® Srunotha) the essential
requisites for entering into the holy organisation.”1 The record then

68 ie. Gribasta Codina in no. 489; Trans p. 95. Cf my; article on
Textiles in Niya documents, Bharatiya Vidya, XIV, Bombay, pp. 75-94.
fa. 11; BSOS., VIII, 905; Acta Orientalia, XIII, p. 62 fn. 6.

69 Did these people belong to some religoin other than the Buddhist
faith?

70° Cé. atamamna (no. 489=Skt. attamanasa), parituthamanas (no. 647=
Ske. paritustamanasa) etc., KI, p. 330.

7% Perhaps the following declaration was nothing but a warning to the
Jramanas who were likely to go astray or were going astray. The record
specifically refers to the purpose of the declaration when it states that all these
injunctions have been laid down to purify the church (Sudbartha samgha etc.).
Indiscipline inside the monasteries is evident from no. 489. In fact the institution

Google
36 — Religions Conditions as depicted in the Niya Documents

“Samgha does not
accept those people who go astray (nasti vivarnacarana upalabbi
samghe). Such persons will remain outside the pale of the monastic
organisation (ye vivarnacarana te babiradha samgha). Same was
the treatment to be meted out to those who were devoid of any Sila or
sense of morality (ye bhomti Sila-rabita te babiradba samghe). On
the contrary, those who were pious and used to put the high ideals

into practice were qualified enough to seek entry into the samgha (ye
ca visudba manasvina upalabbi samghe) etc. The whole document
consists of such pious injunctions and rules of the Vinaya but its
fragmentary nature is a great obstacle in interpreting the present
record in toto.

Ie is equally interesting to note a slight reference to some prayer
in no. 511 obverse: —

“May the monks who are assembled in this gathering, who bathe
in the Jamdaka-baths and honour and love their teachers, be pure in
their current duties, with minds free from hatred (or fault)” (Trans,
p- 100;—imasmi yo bhichugane upasthita jamdaka-sitra guruprema
vyavuca kamana bhavamtn nimala prabina-dosa pagatena cetasa).
In short it was expected of the monks to love and respect their
teachers, to devote themselves to their holy duties, to keep their minds
immune from any idea of hatred or fault etc.

XIII. Monastic Discipline and the Church Organisation: —
(i) Items of Indiscipline: —
Ie is painful to note (in no. 489) that the novices (navaka), in the
reign-period of King Mayiri, roused an atmosphere of great indiscipline

of monastic life appears to have been engrafted on a people who had absolutely
no earlier traditions of monkbood in their native country. That appears to be
the reason why they failed to come up to the ideal standard of life as was
expected from the Indian followers of the Blessed One.

In the time of Itsing in China admission to priesthood was by public
registration. After having shaved one’s hair, one took refuge for a time with
a teacher who never held himself responsible for imparting a single prohibitive
rule nor did the pupil himself ask to be instructed in the ten moral precepts
(Itsing’s Account, edited by Takakusu, 1896, Oxford, p. 98). The Niya
documents nowhere refer to any procedure of admission to the saiigha,

Google ;
Religions Conditions as depicted in the Niya Documents 37

when they “did not pay any attention to the advice of the Elders and
proved equally disobedient co the elderly monks (navaka vrdhasya na
$rotam mamiti, urdba ratu bbichu abbomata butamti). Does it
mean that it was rather difficult for the novices to adjust their lives
in strict accordance with the monastic discipline?

(ii) Watchful eye of the Church: —

The above indisciplinary behaviour of the novices caught immediate
attention of the religious authorities with the resule that the “king
laid down certain regulations in front of the community of monks”
(ndisa devaputrena bbichusamghasya puratha eta kriyahara pranapta’®.
Dr. Burrow (Trans, p. 95) interprets the word (kbuvanemei™ as
“in the capital” while Prof. Thomas (Acta Orientalia, XIL, p. 61, 0.5)

as ‘in the citadel’’,

(iii) Church Legislation: —

Irrespective of the above differing views and the interpretations put
forch by the scholars, this much is sure chat the Central Church at
some other place used to appoint the offcers-in-charge, defined theit
powers and issued necessary injunctions for the guidance of indis-
ciplined monks belonging to the community of monks at Cadota
(i.e. Niya site)": —

(x) A monk who does not partake in the activities of the

72 Cf. the monks also enjoying hot water baths as already quoted from
the Avadana Sataka above.

73 CE, Prof. Thomas (Acta Orientalia, XII, p. 60 n. 6) referring to Pali
paniiatti (Mabavastu, I. 311.5)=order or ordinance; Rhys Davids, Pali
Dictionary.

74 Ck kbuvanemchi bhichusamga cadoti bhichusamgasya kriyakara
prafiapta in the very beginning of document no. 489.

75 The Central. Saiigha got the rules framed by the king. As a matter
of fact there was no interference from the king's side. The Bhiksusaigha in
Central Asia (i.e. in the Shan-Shan kingdom) was perhaps independent of
the royal control. The king perhaps interfered only when his help was needed
at certain particular moments. Ie che times of Itsing (Travels, translated by
Takakusu, op. cit.

. 63), the priests submitted to their own laws without ever
giving any trouble to the public courts.

Google ‘
38

Religions Conditions as depicted in the Niya Documents

(3)

(4)

community of monks shall pay a fine of one pate (coll of
silk) (Yo bbichusamgakarani na anuvarteyati tase dadavo
pata 1).

A monk who fails to take part in the Posatha ceremony
is to be fined 1 pata (Yo bhichw posatha-kamaya nanuvar-
teyati tasya damda pata 1).

A monk who enters the Posatha ceremony, in the garb of
a householder, is to be fined 1 pata (Yo bhich bhichusya
prabara kama nimamtresu gribasta codina pravisayati
tasa damdavo pata). It seems quite strange that fine both
for the absence and for the use of improper dress in the
Posatha ceremony was the same (i.e. x pata). As a matter
of fact, the Bbiksus in ancient India were required to
attend such assemblies fully dressed though some exceptions
have also been recorded (cf. Dutt N., Early Monas-
tic Buddbism, 1941, Calcutta, 1, p. 291).

A monk who strikes another monk, shall be fined accord-
ing to the gravity of the offence i.e. 5 patas for light, 10
patas for moderate and 15 patas for severe blows (ise. Yo
bhichusya prabara deyati mrduka pata 5, madya pata
dasa 10, asimatra pamca-dasa 15)". Thus fines prescribed
fer mutual disputes and exchange of blows therein were
fac heavier than those for non-attendance in the religious
ceremonies (as Posatha etc.). It means that greater care
was taken for the maintepance of discipline and peaceful
atmosphere inside the monasteries. It is of course not possi-
ble to account for the fixation of only one pata as fine for
remaining absent from the Posatha function, Was it some
temporary arrangement arrived at, simply to curb the
novices who were indulging in mutual quarrels and dispu-
tes? The need of the hour was the peaceful activities of

76 In ancient India, Sangha being primarily a religious body, no corporal

punishment was possible. Confiscation of property (such as an extra robe and
an extra bowl) was the only punishment prescribed for a monk who prove to be
a defauleer (CE, Durga Bhagawat, Early Buddhist Jurisprudence, Poona, p. 105)-
Pali literature too refers to the punishment prescribed for quarrelsome monks.

Google iN OF MICHIGAN
Religious Conditions as depicted in the Niya Documents 39

the monks and strict adherence to the religious laws on
their part,

(iv) Church Conrt :—

The Niya document no. 419 empowered the vibirapiles to
sctutinise and decide the cases of the monks in strict accordance with
the law. Also it is specifically stated at one place (no. 506) that the
community of monks at Cadota actually made legal enquiries and

decided a particular case (Cadoti bbichusamgena pruchita vyoch-
imna).

(») Church as Witness: —

Ie is also to be noted that the community of monks at Cadota
could even be accepted as a qualified witness in the court of law (no.
582). Even the monks (Sramanas) were seen appearing in the same
capacity as teferced to above (nos. 209, 400, 415, 588, 589, 592
étc.). Just reverse was the case in ancient India where monks and the

parivrajakas were free from any responsikility of appearing as witnesses
(aksis) in the court.

(vi) Appointment of the Vibérapalas and their Functions: —

(2) The Elders, Silaprabha and Pumfasena, were appointed as
incharge of the monastery. They were to control the activities of the
monks and the community. Also disputes were to be examined (by
them) according to the law in such a manner as the monks remained
calm and contented:—vrdha Silaprabha pumiasena vibsravala ete
samgasya samgakarani kartavya yatha dbamena prachidavo yo
bhichu samgakarani sarva edesa......yena bbichwsamga atmanna
bhaveyati".

(b) That the vibarapales were leading chaste lives is rather difficule
to understand for we find a vibérepala (SudarSana by name) causing
much damage to the wine crops of his own kilme people with flesh
and meat (no. 358, cf. Prof. Thomas, Acte Orientalia, XIII, p, 68)

77 The documents fail to refer to the salary or remuneration paid to these
monastery-masters. On the other hand the document under-study refers to
the full powers as enjoyed by the monastery-masters,

Google InIVERSIT
40 — Religions Conditions as depicted in the Niya Documents

and lived the life of a houscholder (vibara-valasa sadba putrasparivara-
sya, no. 358)"

(©) In no. 322, a Khotanese man was given to the Bhiksu Sarigha
at Cadota. The purpose of such an award remains quite unknown.
Also it is evident from no. 506 that the communi tyof monks at
Cadota even decided a case concerning a slave who happened to
belong to two sramanas. Ic is really strange to find chat the Bhiks
Safigha did not discourage the institution of slavery. On the other
hand monks were in the habit of conducting transactions in slaves etc.

XIV. Dress af the Monks :—

The phrase gotami vastra (in no. 511 reverse) perhaps means ‘the
dress worn by a follower of the Buddha.” Also a monk in no. 606
reports that his kasara has been burnt by a certain lady, the reason of
such situation being quite unknown (cf. mamma kasara dabita). Kagara’™
cortesponds to the “yellow robe of a monk”; Cf. Ske. kasdya (Monier
Williams, A Skt.Eng.-Dictionary, Oxford, 1899, p- 2653 BSOS, XIII,
pp- 130, 389), Tocharian agar (Language, p. 82; BSOS, XIl, p.
389). Dr. Bailey (BSOS, XIII, p. 130) also compares the word with
‘Agnean kasdr, Kiichean kasar, Sogdian karaza, Pali kasdya and kasiva,
isa of Khotanese Medical Texts etc.

But there is not a slight reference to the monks (living inside
the monasteries) using the kagara robe. On the other hand, we
have also noted above that bbiksus were to be fined in the shape of
patas (rolls of silk). The number of such patas was even ranging
from 1 to 15. It appears that these monks could easily afford to pay
so many patas™™ if fined for thei lapses. Since these patas are num-
bered and prescribed for payments as fine, it is very likely chat they
were of some definite size and fixed price.

XV. Donation for the Buddbist Church: —
Taking its stand on the 4 nissayas, the Buddhist Saigha, in the

774 An ideal Buddhist monk in ancient India used to keep very limited
dlothes for himself. For details about pata, see my article on the “Textiles and
Garments in the Kharosthi documents from Chinese Turkestan,” in the
Bharatiya Vidya, Bombay, XIV, pp. 75-94-

Google
Religions Conditions as depicted in the Niya Documents 41

beginning, did not own any property. Later on it began to receive
all sorts of clothes, wares (Cullavagga, VI. 15,2), foodstuffs,
medicaments, furniture, building grounds etc, A stage came when
receiving of gifts from laymen became a birthright with the Buddhist
Saigha".

(a) Private Donations: —

1 Frequent references to the donation of men (mamnusa; cf.
of a Khotanese man in no. 322 and that too for the Bhiksn Sarigha
at Cadota), corn (no. 703), provisions (saiighabbata’, no. 343 as
offered by an officer®® in his personal capacity) etc., for the monas-
teties are available in the existing documents.

(2) Documents no. 345 appears to have been some record of
account of private donations made by certain donors whose names
are written along with the objects and their quantity donated in each
case. The document begins with the phrase samgarama. The
commodities and objects referred to there are pasdha, ot pasdha, corn,
maburaga (cf. Trans, p. 66 n. of no. 345), vacarina, sheep, masusa,

78 Cf. Durga Bhagwat, op. cit.. pp. 155-7 for details.

79 ie. provision for the Buddhist Church, For details consult N. Dutt,
op. cit, pp. 320-1: N, Dute, Early Monastic Buddbism, 1927, London,
p-117. From the Cullavagge we know that Lord Buddha, in his own times,
had once appointed an officer to check the unequal division of food which the
Order received in shape of presents and donations. Inthe words of Durga
Bhagwat (op. cit., p. 151), “‘sanghabbatta seems to have been an apportioner of
cooked food. His duty was to make heaps of food by fastening tickets or marks
on them.” CE, distribution of food as tea in the ordinary Buddhist morning-
service (JRAS., 1934, p. 481). The religious communities of Sacw (ibid,
pp. 275, 281) and Hukwo convent at Dandanuiliq (Ancient Kbotan, p. 276)
owned landed property etc.

80 Here the officer purchased saiighabhata in exchange for a kafculika
and distributed 16 mulis and 15 kbis in such a manner that 1 muli_was left be-
hind, We do not know the number of monks who happened to receive 15
mulis and 15 kbis in the shape of a donation, As regards a muli, it was 1/ roth
of a gold stater while kbi was 1/20th of a muli in value. Also 20 kbis= 1 muli
=1 milima (Cf. Trans., p. 65 where Dr. Burrow takes 1 muli as equivalent of 1
milima of corn). For milima and kbi sce my article in JBRS., Patna, December
1952. pp. 359 ff.; Bharatiya Vidya, op. cit., fn. 19-20.

6 .
Google 4
42 — Religions Conditions as depicted in the Niya Documents

hotava (or kutava ise. tug) etc. The above document also states
that pethaps some corn had disappeared (ct. ardha nabida). Does it
refer to some theft in the monastery-store?

(3) The existing documents nowhere refer to the landed property
owned by the Central Asian sarigha. Just reverse was the case in
Buddhist India where the sarigha not only owned and managed the
lands but used to give it to others (on hire) for cultivation purposes
(Mabavagga, VI. 39-1.)".

(4) A certain scribe (no. 348), while making an agreement for
the disposal of a pot, got it specifically stated in the sale deed that
“anybody wishing to disturb the agreement would pay the penalty
(i.e. 5 patas) not to that scribe but “all to the saigha” (ko paca-
kalami mamtra nikbalitati dhamta dhesati sava samgasa pata 5).
The scribe under reference might have been an ardent devotee of the
Buddhist church.

(b) State Donations: —

Not a single instance can be quoted when the sarigha happened
to receive any grant from the king or from the governors of the realm.
On the other hand, kings used to make regular grants and endow-
ments in favour of the slaves, refugees, laymen etc, It is not yet possi-
ble to account for the paucity (rather absence) of royal grants for the
Bbiksu Saigha. Does it mean that the rulers of Shan Shan kingdom
had not yet declared themselves as devotees of the Buddhist faith?
The only favour that the state authorities could do to some particular
monks (but not to the community of monks as such) was to exempe
them from the enquiries which took place in the city (no. 503). At
the same time, it is worth noting that unjust actions of the monks
were hardly tolerated both by the king and the judicial officers. In
a case of illegal adoption by a certain monk, the king ordered for a
careful enquiry and the decision was to be made with sworn testimony
(no. 553). Not only that, another fellow (a monk) is said to have
owed a fine? of 1 cow at the court (Sramamna dvara avimdbama
daramnaga buta go 1, no. 345).

81 Aso Takakusu, op. cit., pp. 61-2.
82 We do not know whether the monk in question paid this fine or not,

Google i
Religions Conditions as depicted in the Niya Documents 43
XVI. Secular Activities of the Sramanas:—

A. meagre study of the Niya documents (in Kharosthi script) is
sufficient to reveal that the Sramanas in Centeal Asia were leading
all sorts of worldly lives and even created unruly atmosphere inside
the monasteries, Bue chat does not mean that these Sramanas were
altogether ignorant of the rules of discipline and ideals of the Buddhist
way of life in chose times, No doubt the novices tried to create
some trouble inside the vibaras but the Buddhist sarigha tose to the
occasion to curb the undesired elements, On the other hand, the
community of monks was encouraging the institution of slavery etc.

The task of moulding the lives of che monks (according to the strict
injunctions as laid down by the early Indian texts on Vinaya) was
not an easy task in Chinese Turkestan. Ie appears that the institution
of Sramana-hood was engrafted on people who were utterly devoid of
earlier traditions of asceticism and detachment from the worldly life.
Somewhat similar was the case in ancient China where monastic life
could not be appreciated even as late as 250 A.D. for it was opposed
to the very ethics of the people (P. K. Mookerjce, Indian literature
in China, p. 22)" there.

LAs Householders: —

Monks were frequently leading the lives of householders in the
contemporary society. They were actually having wives (no. 358),
sons (nos. 419, 655), daughters (no. 418) and grandchildren (no.
418). Also they used to contact. marriages with persons of their

83 About the sth or 6th century, A. D. the literate and illiterate people in
‘China began to loose faith in the efficacy of Confucianism. Finding themselves
unable to discharge the family obligations and so desirous of taking refuge in
some calm atmosphere of monastic life, a considerable section of the people be-
came removed from ordinary vocations of life, ‘The cousttry was thus thronged
with sturdy beggars wearing monkish yellow robes and holding 2 beggar’s bowl,
This state of affairs was bound to affect the interests of the state to a great
extent. To stop this growing evil the state began to confiscate the monastery
lands and the monks were forbidden to weat theie yellow robes or conduct their
religious services. Tens of thousands of these monks and nuns were driven
back into ordinary life (E.R. Hughes and K. Hughes, Religion in China, 1950,
London, p. 71).

Google
44 Religions Conditions as depicted in the Niya Documents

own caste (i.e. priestly class; no. 418) and also with outsiders (no.
621). Even a monastery-master (vibaravala, no. 358), who was a
landlord, was seen leading a luxurious life in the company of his
wife and children, Does it show that it was not binding for che
Vibarapalas to lead a chaste life? It is of course not plausible to
build any theory on the basis of this solitary reference.

On the other hand, according to a specific warning to the
monks living inside the monasteries, one who dared to enter the
posatha meeting in the garb of a householder, was to be fined (no.
489). This instance encourages us to think that che éramanas, living
in the sarigharamas, were perhaps not forced to put on yellow robes
all the 24 hours. The only question of putting on proper _monkish
dress used to arise whenever they were asked to participate in the
religious ceremonies and functions. One document (no. 606) actually
refers to the yellow robe of a monk but it is not yet known whether
the monks living inside the monasteries used such clothes or not**.

Ie is rather interesting to note that our documents fail to refer to
the institution of nuns in the contemporary State of Shan-Shan. And
that could not have been possible ina society where the sramanas
themselves failed to adhere to the sacred ideals of chastity and piety*®.

Monks could also give and accept the children in adoption (nos.
418, 553): Girls adopted by monks were duly married by the
adopting parents.

(Il). As Property Holders: —
Since che Sramanas, (in Chinese Turkestan) were allowed to remain

as householders, it was nothing surprising” if they became so rich as
to keep both movable and immovable property in their possession.

84 We only know that such sramanas were allowed to have at least 15,
patas with them (no. 489). The exact nature of the patas in the possession of
these monks is still shrouded in mystery.

85 Sometimes Indian monks too indulged in sexual pursuits etc. Cf. The
Classical Age, Bombay, 1954, pp. 391-2 and foot notes; J. C. Jain
Life in Ancient India as depicted in the Jaina Canons, 1947, Bombay, pp.
200-1; Jatakas, nos. 146, 477 etc.

Google
Religious Conditions as depicted in the Niya Documents 45

The documents refer to the following objects in the possession of these

Sramanas : —

(a)
(b)

©
(4)
©)

0)

()

Lands (nos. 358, 431-2. 473» 549» 582, 652, 782).
Coins (no. 500). In ancient India, a bbiksw could not
keep any silver or gold or some precious thing with him.
Even the safigha could not accept gold etc. Later on the
monks began to violate the golden rule and started accep-
ting bullion (Durga Bhagwat, op. cit., pp. 154-6).

Corn (nos. 252, 549):

Animals (i.e. a cow in no. 122; acamel in no, 546 and
ahorse inno. 582).

Textile®* goods (no. 345, 386, 489, 549, 652) ie. the
patas, the Khotanese rugs (no, 549) and the arnavajis
(no. 386).

Wine (nos 345. 431-2, 652). Acertain vibarapala was
addicted to meat and wine (no. 358). Another monk
(no. 345) took some wine on loan. Perhaps the Sramanas
were using all these things as they happened to be the
residents of a cold country like Central Asia.

Slaves (nos. 345, 506). A certain slave stole some property
from the house of his master who was a monk (no, 345).
Ie is all-the-more amazing to find the monks being kept
as slaves (nos. 152, 358). Monks were also transferred
and given to others (perhaps as slaves in no. 3525 given
in exchange for a slave in no. 506; given as slaves in no.
358). Document no. 133 refers to the exchange of men
between a monk and some person belonging to a different
class. In a certain dispute about the slaves, the community
of monks at Codota made some enquiry and even decided
the case (no. 506). Not only that the monks used to
exchange men with others (no. 130) and the Buddhist
Church was also involved in such unbecoming practices
(no. 322—Cadoti, blichusamghasa kbotamni manusa
gango nama eta ditamti abuno puna eda manusa catoti-

86 CE, My article (quote in foot note 68 above) for these terms,

Google Inv OF MICHI
46 Religions Conditions as depicted in the Niya Documents

bbichu.samgha Vasuana,,.ctc). This is sufficient to prove
that slavery was an institution well recognised and even

encouraged by the holy organisation of the Buddhist

friars***,

(Ill). Non-monkish Professions: —

The Sramanas were bold enough as to keep themselves busy even
in ordinary professions of the times. Their life can also be studied
in the following contexts: —

(®) As Landlords (nos. 368, 431-2). Reference to a vibarapala
and his kilme people has already been made above. In
their capacity as land owners, the monks were entitled to
collect taxes from their tenants etc., (nos. 431-2). They
also indulged in transactions concerning the sale and
purchase of lands (nos. 549, 582, 652, 655), mortgage
(no. 473) and sale of vineyards (nos. 419, 655),
ploughing"” of fields (no. 473) etc. We also find the
Bhiksu Safigha at Cadota as witness at the time of the
sale and purchase of a certain piece of land (no. 582) but
the reason of appearing as a witness remains quite
unaccounted so far.

(b) As Dealers in Animals: —A slight reference to the animals
in the possession of monks has already been made above.
Besides that the latter transferred the animals in exchange
(no. 546) and gave them on hire (no. 340) too.

(0) As Bankers and Usurers: —Certain eighth century A.D.
Chinese records (discovered from a place called Dandanui-
liq in Chinese Turkestan) furnish a detailed account of
numerous loan-bonds pertaining to the monks in the

86a Cf. my article on Position of Slaves and Serfs in the Niya documents
in IHQ, XXIX, p. 107.

87 According to the account of Itsing (translated and edited by Takakusu,
1896, London, p. 61) for a bbiksu, “tilling of land should be done according to
its proper manner (i.e, to till land for oneself is not permissible but to do for a
Buddhist community (saigha) is allowable while sowing or planting are not
against the teaching.”

Google
Religious Conditions as depicted in the Niya Documents 47

contemporary society. This led Sir A. Stein (Ancient
Khotan, op. cit., pp. 276-7) to comment that these loan-
bonds “relate to. money-lending transactions of the same
monk or possibly some equally businesslike brethren from
the Hu-kwo convent, The monks who were supervising
as chief caretakers of the outlying landed property of
the Hu-kuo temple, held even the offices of the karmadana,
the sthavira and the vibarasvamin of the temple or vibara”.

The Sramanas in the Niya society were rich enough as to afford

the loan of 2800 magas*® (no. 500), water (no. 502), wine (no. 345)

ete, A certain monk even offered his slave (no. 345) to his creditor
at the time of paying off his debe.

(4) As State Employees: —In this capacity, the monks used

to discharge the duties of state-sctibes (raja divira, no,

575). tax-collectors (no. 706), reporters and messengers

appointed to convey information about the army people

(no. 695" etc. Ecclesiastical elements in the missions

from Khotan to China have also been noted in the roth
century A. D, (Cf Ancient Khotan, op. cit., p. 180).

(©) In Private-service:—Monks could also be employed as
slaves (no. 152), as messengers to convey wishes of good
health (no. 288) or to hand over the animals (no. 516) toa
particular person, The former persons were to be looked
after with great care (no. 288) and this responsibility lay on
the man to whom the messenger was directed (to convey
the communique). The éramanas also worked as scribes
(no. 331) and had their individual seals. (nos. 419, 425).

(IV). As Witnesses in the Court: —
The documents under study inform us that not only the monks
but even the Bhiksu Safigha used to appear as a witness in the court,

88 An Indian silver currency. A silver masa weighed 2 rattis and 1 silver
harsipana was equal to 16 misas. Cf. my atticle in the Journal of the Numis-
matic Society of India, Bombay, December, 1952, XIV, pp. 103-6.

89 Here the monk Cagusena is being sent about the army people.

Google
48 — Religions Conditions as depicted in the Niya Documents

Following are some of the disputes and matters concerned with the
above work: —

(i) Sale of a gitl (no. 589).

(ii) Sale of a camel (no. 592).

(iii) Sale of a woman (no. 209).

(iv) Sale of land (no. 582). Here the saigha appears as

witness.
(v) Hite of a camel (no. 400).
(vi) Adoption (no. 415).

(V) Undesirable Activities of the Monks: —

Instances are not wanting when the Sramanas, in the Niya society,
behaved in an unmannerly way. A monk pethaps picked up some
quarrel with a lady. The latter even burnt the yellow robe (hasara,
no. 606) of that monk. Reference to the undesirable behaviour of the
monks inside the monasteries has already been made above. Sometimes
monks were involved in various lawsuits because of: —

(i) Non-payment of the wages of persons (employed for doing
certain work of the monk) in no, 386.

(ii) Marrying a lady without paying the bride-price for her
(no. 474).

(iii) Maltreatment of the tenants and the subordinates (no.
358).

(iv) Illegal mortgage of a vineyard and ploughing the field
belonging to some other person (no. 474).

(VI). Monks in the Eyes of Law :—

Reference to the legislation concerning the unruly monks (no. 489)
has already been made above. Such monks were duly fined for their
lapses in shape of patas.

As regards the monks living outside the monasteries, some leniency
was perhaps shown to them. They were to be looked after very care-
fully (nos. 288, 703) and sometimes they were even exempted from the
state enquiries in the cities (no. 503). A certain official even proved
somewhat partial to a monk in a case of adoption (no. 553).

Google
Religions Conditions as depicted in the Niya Documents 49

As regards che question of state legislation for the Sramanas, they
were being controlled by their own community which pethaps sought

king’s help at the time of dire need only (no. 489). Otherwise there
was no interference from the side of the state. The Bhiksw Saighs
was a self sufficient body and even decided judicial cases of the monks.
A note to this effect has already been made above. But that should
not mean that the royal authorities were not watchful of the activities
of the unruly monks. Speedy enquiries used to be ordered whenever
any complaint was lodged against the monks (no. 553). Violation
of the rules and regulations resulted in the punishment of the guilty
monks. A certain monk is said to have owed one cow (asa fine,
no. 345) at the king’s court. Similarly a vibarapala, who happened
to be a land-lord and troubled his own tenants and subordinates, was
kept in detention (no. 358). Not only that, his diet etc., was all
regulated in strict accordance with the rules of detention’? (cf,
averodbi dharmena rakkbidavo in no. 358). Such was the application

of state laws for the guilty monks and even for the monastery-masters.

C. Miscellaneous Beliefs and Notions: —
(i) Problems of Life and Death: —

The idea of 100 years as a span of human life had deeply permea-
ted the ancient Aryan society in India (Cf. ota weg: wd yaa
‘WRT Ua'—etc., very often chanted by the Vedic sages). The people
of Chinese Turkestan too cherished the same noble ideals in the pre-
Gupta period. The truth of this statement is well corroborated by
frequent references to the phrases as yogya divya-varsa-Satdyu-pramana
while sending wishes of good health (arogi) to the relatives and friends
in private communications and letters,** Life was no burden to the
residents of Shan Shan kingdom. The people aspired to live at least
for hundred divine years” (divya varsa Sata), and every possible care
was to be exercised in the proper maintenance of the body (farira

0 The document fails to present the details about such regulations.

gt CE my article on “Some Family letters in the Niya documents”
read in the Indian History Congress held at Waltair in December, 1953;
also in JHQ., March, 1954, pp. 50-6.

7 ~
Google
50 Religions Conditions as depicted in the Niya Documents

budiyami osuge avajidavo, in no. 703) and seeking secutity from the
jaws of death (no. 703, cf Language, p. 103). It was also believed
that death (no. 399) on its part overpowers everybody including the
Buddhas, the Pratyekabuddhas, the Arbatas and the universal rulers.
None of these persons could avoid the all embracing touch of death
ise. na Sahya kartu budba, na pratyeka-budba, na arbamtana, na raya
cakraverti, sarvi pariniyamti. All creatures, on entering the doctrine
of the Tathagatas, make end of birth and death (no. 511—obv. ye
upapamna satva tathagatanam upagamya sasane karomti
anta; Trans., p. 100)."*

(ii) Importance of Noble Deeds: —

A great emphasis was laid on the performance of noble actions
and maintenance of purity in every sphere of life (no. 399-
samprajya kartavya, kujala kartavya, brabmacarita)*. \t was also
believed that bad deeds" were bound to do away with the ancestral
name and as such it was expected that the descendants ought to

ti maranasya

behave in a manner as to save the ancestral name from being vanished
(no. 399 referring to the advice as ma imci afubba adebi, taba
haryena kutu pitapeteri nafati). Even kings were expected to abide
by the dictates of law and piety (cf. royal epithet as sacadbamasti-
dasa in the documents).

92 Also some documents refer to the divine-body (divya Sarira) proving
thereby that human body was pechaps taken to be a divine gift.

93 This was the gospel of Buddhism (as preached in Chinese Turkestan)
devising ways and means to overcome the cycle of births and deaths,

94 Brabmacarita=Skt. brabmacarita or Pali brabmacariya, The latter
has been interpreted to mean “observance of vows of holiness, chastity and
moral living (Rhys Davids, Pali English Dictionary, s. v. brabmacariya);
CE, Language, p. 13.

95. ie. abubba karya (n0. 399).

96 It is not possible to say anything about the conception of dharma in
Niya society. In no, 511 it is prayed that the king may, be victorious and long
abide in the law of the Blessed One (Jayaya parthiva ciram sa dhama sugatsya
tisthatw). The royal epithet in sacadbama-stidasa seems to refer to Sugats
dbama perhaps. Denuga (a title in no. 418) has been compared with Avestan
daéna (=religion?) but without definiteness (Language, p. 98; BSOS., VII,
P- 513).

Google iV
Religious Conditions as depicted in the Niya Documents 5%

Te appears from no. 311 that some persons even thought of doing
good to others in case the latter happened to behave in a pious way
(cf. the fragmentary document no. 311 as translated’? by Burrow
in Trans., p. 57). i?

‘An ungrateful person is hated like anything, Such a man is
always taken to be a burden on this earth, even heavier than the
Sumeru Parvata or other hills in general (no. 514—na me yam prtbivi
vara’® na sumeru na ca parvatini akridafisya ma(yam)barayasya nasti
hritamfatha).

(ii) Unstability of Riches: —

Document no. 523 refers to the unstability of prosperity and
riches in very beautiful words. It runs thus: —“Prosperous life is never
stable. First a man prospers and then he languishes; first he is
praised and then he faces blames; first he grieves and then rejoices;
first he gives and afterwards he resorts to begging” (Trans., p. -
103): —punar-naro vardbayati bayati punab; punar naro Sasyati
nimdyate punab; punar naro socati namdati punab; punah dadati
punar eva yacati. This idea can well be compared with the views
propounded by Kalidasa” and the Mababbarata®, The
latter passage (V. 36.44, Poona edition) is almost identical with chat
of no. 523 and runs thus:—punar naro mriyate jayate ca, punar naro
biyate ‘vardbayate punab punar naro yacati yacyate ca, punar naro
socati socyate punah. It also stated in the above document (no.
523) chat ‘just as a man travelling on a journey rests here and there,
when overcome with fatigue, so a man’s riches from time to time,
having rested, come back again’, i.e. Yathd manusyab patbi varta-

97. ie. “IE he takes compassion on my life, I will be able to do good decd
in return for that person of excellent virtues. As a present one bastavarsaga
is being sent” (Yadi-mahi jivida anu...krosati...abu gunakalyanasa karamnaya,
prabida prabuda basta-varsaga 1).

98 =Skt. bbara i.e. burden.

99 i.e. Cakranemi kramena gacchati bhagya panktib.

100 CE. Journal Asiatique, Paris, XII, 1918, pp. 319-375 Trans. p. 103..
ror Trans., p. 103.

Google
52 Religions Conditions as depicted in the Niya Documents

manah kvacit kvacid visramate Sramarttah tatha manusyasya dbanani
kale kale sammaivasya punar vrajamti.

Buc that does not mean that there was only a pessimistic view of
life before the Central Asian people. Document no. 11 refers to
a prayer for the prosperity and victory i.e. Sata subbichu bbavatu
samakula Imdram vivrdbi abbivarsatu makbi udemtu sasya ca jayaya
parthiva ciram sa dhamasugata tisthatu.

(iv) Poverty : —

Poverty has always been regarded as the greatest curse that can
befall a person. Document no. 523 (reverse) compares the life of a
rich man with that of a poor when it says ‘Alas the life of the poor,
and again alas the life of those rich people who have not the sense
to enjoy ot distribute their riches” (Trans., p. 103)! ise. «+. ...dbik
jivitamadandbinam punarapi dbik jivitah babudbaninam yesim na
bbavati_ budbib bboktum vd samvibbage va. Besides that, ‘pleasures
lost to a rich man torment his mind, just like heaps of corn belonging
to an avaricious man stored away in a granary, when they are (acci-
dentally) burnt in the time of scarcity” (Trans., ibid) ie. datua na
matsaritaya vidbivat na bbuktua (or datva), bhogamanam paridabam-
tyanayena nathah lobbatmano kbalagatah paribina kale sasyasya
riaya (i) nati Sasya dagdbab.

(V). Hunger for Knowledge and different Branches of Learning :-

A certain person (no, 514) is very eager to gain proficiency in so

103"

many branches of “knowledge!®®”. Thus we happen to note references

to the following aspects of knowledge in one document alone :—
(i) Grammar (Sabda).

(ii) Music (gandbarves cf. gamdarva in no. 565).

) Happenings on earth and in air (cf. bhumi vita caride).
iv) Astronomy (jor
(v) Poetry (havya karamnd).

102 For references to the fate of the wealth of rich persons in Indian
literature consult the atticle “Une Tablette Kbarostbi-Sanskrite” published in
the Journal Asiatique, op. cit. p. 328.

103 ie. fana=Ske. jana,

Google
Religions Conditions as depicted in the Niya Documents 53

(vi) Dancing (talave'™ of tandave).
(vii) Painting (citragaram bbirajate).

(VI). Belief in the Cycle of Twelve Animals: —

The knowledge of the ‘Cycle of r2 Animals’’ can be traced back
to the first centuary A. D. Reference to ordinary series of 12 Zodiacal
Signs (rafis) are also available in the Mababbarata and the Puranas
(F. W. Thomas, Acta Orientalia, XII, pp. 38-9). Document no. 565
furnishes very interesting details when it refers to different naksatras'®®
and the works to be done in those particular moments. Dr. Burrow
(Trans., p. 111) gives the following translation of che document'®*
(no. 565) :—

(1) The first naksatra is called the Mouse (muska). On this
day one should do all things and it will be successful
(tasya dbivasa sarva karyana karet sidbam ca bhavati).

(2) In the cow naksatra, the head is to be washed (?) and
having eaten and drunk, one should enjoy oneself with
music (gava nichatrami Sirsa lobidavya kbatva pitva
gamdarvena ramidavya).

(3) Inthe Tiger naksatra battle is to be undertaken [vyagra

" nachatrami yodba arabbidavya).

(4) In the Hare naksatra, one should run away and he who
disappears, is difficult to find (Sasaka nachatrami palayi-
davya yo ca nasyati durlapa).

(5) Inthe Dragon naksatra, endurance (?), everything is to

104 Cf. Ske télava=musician (Monier Williams, A Ske. English Dice
tionary, 1899, Oxford, p. 440.

108 ie. Kharosthi nichatra, Cf, Tocharian |. w. niksamtra.

106 This is all based on Liders’ essay “Zur Geschichte des Ostasiatischen
Tierkreises” cited by Burrow; Cf. H. W. Bailey, BSOS., VIII, pp. 923-30 for
parallels in other languages; Chavannes, T’oung Pao, Il, 1906, pp. 51-122;
F. W. Thomas, Acta Orientalia, XIL, pp. 38-41.

107 Burrow here considers Dragon as preceding Serpent. On the other
hand, Thomas (Acta Orientalia, XII, p. 40) suggests any of the three ive.
sarpa ot bbujaga or wraga. Bailey (BSOS., VIII, p. 928) takes, jamdunam ca
after naga and before aspa ; similarly makada before kukuda,

Google
54 Religious Conditions as depicted in the Niya Documents

(6)
2)

(8)
(9)

(10)
(11)

be endured (naga machatrami tricha sarva karya
sabidavya).

In the Serpent naksatra one is to be kept free from all busi-
ness (jamdunam ca sarva karyena varidavyd).

In the Horse nakgatra, journeys ate to be taken in eastern
and western directions (aspa nichatrami purva paicima
dekami padam gamdavo).

In the Sheep naksatra, the head isto be washed (pasa
nichatrami Sirsa lobidavya).

In the Cock naksatra, clothes and bedding are to be cut
and sewn (kwkuda nichatrami pravarana'®* vastarna
chinidavya sividvya).

In the Monkey nakgatra, everything is easy (makada ca
sava karyana labu).

In the Dog nakgatra going and coming quickly (is suitable)
(fuana nichatram ca digra gata dgamans).

In the Pig naksatra ploughing, sowing and tilling of
vineyards (are suitable), There will be success and in-
crease (sugara nichatra krisa vavana masu-Sada uchivana
sidbi vardhi bhavisyati.

This is in nutshell a short account of the religous conditions as

depicted in the Kbarosthi documents from Chinese Turkestan.

108 CE my article on Textiles and Garments in the Niya documents
published in the Bharatiya Vidya (XIV, pp. 75-94) cited above.

Google
A Refutation of Solipsism

(Annotated translation uf Samtanantarasiddbi)
By
Hivenorr Kitacawa

Samtanantarasiddhi is one of the seven principal works* ascribed to
Dharmakirti, a great Buddhist logician of India who lived around the
middle of the seventh century? Samtanantarasiddhi isa dialogue between
the Realists* and the Idealists‘ on the problem of solipsism, The
Realists attack the Idealists claiming that it is impossible for the Idea-
lists to avoid solipsism. Dharmakirti, being one of the leading
polemics of the Yogicitins, a school representing idealist thoughe in
Buddhism, refutes the Realists’ charge, claiming that not only it is
possible for the Idealists to avoid solipsism, but also that it is more
reasonable to believe in idealism than in realism. Most of Dhar-
makirti’s works deal with logic; Samednantarasiddhi is especially

* This translation has been done under the supervision of Prof. Johannes
Rahder of Yale University. I here express my deepest gratitude to him.
Without his kindness this translation could not have been done. I am also
greatly indebted to Prof. V. V. Gokhale of Fergusson College and Muni
Jambuvijayaji; the former kindly took the trouble to read the whole of my
manuscript and gave me several useful suggestions, the latter gave me the
information about the Sanskrit original of a Sloka of Samtinantarasiddhi,
which will be shown in foot-note 8.

1 According to the Tibetan tradition, the following are considered to be the
seven principal works of Dharmakirti: (i) Pramanavarttika (ii) Pramanavini-
Scaya (iii) Nyayabindu (iv) Hetubindu (v) Sambandhapariksa (vi) Vadanyaya
(vii) Sameinanearasiddhi.

2 Hiouen-thang who came back from India on 643 A.D. reports nothing of
Dharmakirti, But I-tsing who arrived at India on 673 A.D. and stayed there
for about ten years-reports of him. (cf. Taishadaizdkyé vol. 54, p. 229 b).

3 According to Vinitadeva, the Realists here are those who claim that
there exist real things outside of us (phyi-ol-gyi don-du smra-ba). The
siitra uses the word ‘don gshan-du smra-ba’. (cf. Sitra 59).

4 According to Vinitadeva, the Idealists here are those who claim that
the object of our cognition resides inside of us (Ses-bya naii-gi yin-par_smra-ba),
‘The stitra uses the word ‘sems-tsam-du smra-ba’. (cf. Sitra 1).

Google cs
56 A Refutation of Solipsism

important because it presents the metaphysical and the epistemological
backgrounds of his system of logic.

The Sanskrit text of this book is lost, and we have no Chinese
translations. We do have Tibetan translations; according to Tohoku
Catalogue’ these are as follows:

No. 4219: Rgyud gshan grub-pa shes-bya-bahi rab-tu-byed-pa
(Samtandntarasiddhi-nima-prakarana).

No. 4238: Rgyud gshan grub-pahi hgrel-bSad (Sameanantarasiddhi-

tika),
The first is the work of Dharmakirti himself and the second
is the commentary by Vinitadeva. In addition to these there is
another Tibetan commentary, Mkhas-pahi yid hphrog, written by a
Mongolian monk, Nag-dbai-bstan-dar. Th. Stcherbatsky has pre-
pared a critical edition of all these chree works* and has translated the
first two into Russian?,

‘Samtinintarasiddhi’ means literally the proof of the existence of
another stream. More explicitly, ‘Sameina’ means the stream of
psychological activities; so Dharmakirti uses ‘Samtanantarasiddhi’ to
mean the proof of the existence of another person. The Buddhists define
the person in terms of the stream of psychological activities and not in
terms of the soul in the sense of an unchangeable and eternal entity;
they did not believe that such a soul exists. Therefore, the question of
the existence of the soul of another person is of no concern to Dhar-

5 According to Cordier’s Catalogue the title of this work is ‘Tantrantara-
siddhi’ (cf. Catalogue du fonds de la Bibliotheque Nationale, xcv, 17 and
cviii, 1). But in the light of the contents of the work there is no doubt that
‘Sameinantarasiddhi’ is correct. As Cordier mentions in his Catalogue, he
replaced the title ‘Samtinantarasiddhi’, which was given in his original text,
by ‘Tantrintarasiddhi’ according to the index of the Asiatic Museum of
St. Petersburg.

6 Bibliotheca Buddhica xix. (i) p. 1—p. 74. The text of Samtinantara-
siddhi with Vinitadeva’s commentary. (ii) p. 75—p. 119, The commentary
by Nag-dbaa bstan-dar.

7 Darmakirti, Obosnovanie chuzhoi odusherviennosti, Petersburg 1922,
79 pp. (The translation of Samténantarasiddhi with Vinitadeva's commentary).

I have heard that Shree Purushottamadas Tarkas is working on the re-
translation of Samtandntarasiddi into Sanskrit.

Google ERSIT

A Refutation of Solipsism 57

makitti, His defence of idealism is directed towards a proof of the

existence of a stream of psychological activities other than one’s own.

{Note: Sin
Sloka and ninety four sitras—, I have had to translate it freely
together with some explanations, Whenever I supplied words in
order to make my translation intelligible, used square brackets.
But when these words were substituted for a pronoun, I left them
outside the brackets and put them in italics; the words

ince the style of Samtanantarasiddhi is very compact—one

which were substituted for other brief expressions than pronouns,
however, were simply lefe outside the brackets without using italics,
When necessary, I gave a literal translation in the foot-notes. In
most cases I referred to Vinitadeva’s commentary to understand the
meaning of the sitras. In che footenotes I have tried to give
the Sanskrit equivalents for some of the important Tibetan words,
but in the lack of a Sanskrie text, I readily admit that some of
these may be open to further consideration. Since the first
siitra has practically the same content as the Sloka, I gave a
translation of the Sloka in the foot-notes*,]

According to the commentaries ‘the Realists’ in Samtindntara-

8 The Sloka and sitrar have the same content. But as Vinitadeva
says in his commentary on the Sloka, that it is the gist of the whole
argument of Samtinantarasiddhi, while siitea 1 is just for making the start
of the arguments. The following is the literal translation of the Sloka:
If [you say that] one shall know [the existence of] intelligence [other than
his own] on the ground that he geasps actions in other [persons’ body] after
having seen [in] his own body that his actions are preceded by {his own]
intelligence, then [I must say that] this method of reasoning is the same even
in the case of idealis

The Sanskrit original of this Sloka is quoted by Rimakantha in NareSvara-
pariksavetti (p. 62, published in Kashmir Series). That is:

buddhi-piievim kriyim destva svadehe ‘nyatra tad-grahanit/
jfayate yadi dhis, citea-mitre ’py esa nayah samah//
A Sloka found in Tattvartha-raja-varttika (p. 26, i
buddhi-pirvam kriyam drstva svadehe ‘nyatra ted-grahanit/
manyate buddhi-sadbhavah, si na yesu na tesu dhih//
The second sloka is the summary of the Realists’ point of view, while the first
one is that of the Idealists.

8

Google , 7
58 A Refutation of Solipsism

siddhi refers to the Sautrintikas except in Siitras 34 to 39 (both
inclusive) where it refers to the Vaibhisikas. Of course, the word
‘the Idealists’ refers to the Yogicirins of whom Dharmakitti is che
spokesman,

Realists: [We infer the existence of the movement of
another mind on the following grounds. First,] we
observe in ourselves that [our bodily] actions’ and speech
are preceded by a movement of [our] mind;"® then we
observe bodily actions and speech in another person, and
on the ground of these observations we infer [the existence
of] a movement™ [of mind in others. If there existed
nothing but the mind, as you insist, then bodily actions
and speech would not exist and we could not infer the
existence of the movement of another mind] (first part of
Sitra 1)."

Idealists: “Even [if we stand] on the side of idealism,’ we
can use the- same reasoning;}* therefore, we—who claim
that there exists nothing but the mind—are also able to
infer [the existence of] another mind (second part of S. 1).
[For,] we do not admit that those representations"* which
appeat as the signifier"® [of the existence of another mind]

9 Tib. byaeba. cf. foot-note 11.

10 Tib. sems, Ske. citta,

11 Tib, yyo-ba, In Samtandntarasiddhi “yyo-ba’ is strictly distinguished
from ‘bya-ba’; the former is always used in the sense of the movement of
mind while the latter means the bodily actions and other non-psychic
movements.

12 Tib, sems-tsam, Skt. citta-mitra,

13, Literal translation: Even in idealism this reasoning is the same.

14. Tib. Ses-pa, Ske. jiiana,

15 Tib. rnam-par rig-byed, Ske. vijfiapti. In most cases Tibetan transla-
tion for ‘vijfiapti’ is ‘rnam-par rig-pa’. But sometimes ‘rnam-par rig-byed’ is
also used (cf, Mahavyutpatti 1877; Mahiyanasitralankara xi, 21). In
Samténantarasiddhi, Dharmakirti uses this word in a very limited sense; he
always means by this word the representations of bodily actions and speech
as a means of proving the existence of the movement of mind. It must be
noticed that there is a word in Samtnantarasiddhi which has to be studied in

Google
A Refutation of Solipsism 59

can occur in the absence of a certain movement of that
person’s mind.* [In other words, we claim that nothing
exists except mind, but we do not mean that everything
is of the imagination and can be created or altered without
any cause] (S. 2)."”

Realists: [You may say that the representations are not of
the imagination but have a cause; but] in so far as we do
not perceive the very causal relationship between our
representations and the movement of another mind, we
cannot infer [the existence of] intelligence in another
person’ (first part of S. 3).”

comparison with ‘nam-par rig-byel’, that is ‘rtags’ (Ske. liga). This word
is used for the bodily actions and speech which are believed to be entities.
Since the Realists infer the existence of another mind by means of the bodily
actions and speech and the Idealists by means of the representations of the
bodily actions and speech, ‘rtags’ is the word which suits the Realists’ point
of view and ‘rnam-par tig-byed’ is the one which suits the Idealists’, When-
ever a statement is made in Samtanintarsiddhi, therefore, assuming the realist
epistemology, the word ‘rtags’ is used; whenever it is made assuming the
idealist epistemology, the word ‘rnam-par rig-byed’ is used. Only twice (in
Sitras 66, 69) ‘rags’ is used as a neutral term (cf. foot-note 74). ‘rnam-par
tig-byed’, however, is never used even as a neutral term, Th. Stcherbatsky, in
his Russian translation, did not make any distinction between these two termino-
logies, In this tcanslation I used ‘signifier’ for ‘rnam-par rig-byed’ and ‘indi-
cator’ for ‘rtags’,

16 Lit. Transl: We too do not admit that such representations that
appear as the significrs consisting of body and words can occur in the absence
of a certain movement of other representations (=another mind).

Compare this literal translation of Sitra 2 with the translation of Satra 1.
The word ‘mind (Tib. sems, Ske. citta)’ in Siitra 1 is replaced by the word
‘cepresentations (Tib. $es-pa, Skt. jiiina)’ in Sitea 2. We can know that in
Sameanantarasiddhi it is understood that a mind is nothing but a series of
representations. Siitras 3 and 4 also use ‘Ses-pa’ for ‘sems’. In all these
cases ¥ translated ‘ées-pa’ into ‘mind’.

17 Lit. transl: In so far as we do not perceive the activity of the re-
presentations (=the mind) of another person [as a cause of our representations
of his bodily actions and speech,] it is not reasonable to infer [the existence]
of intelligence of another person.

Google 4
60 A Refutation of Solipsism

Idealists: ‘You cannot blame us for that; [even if you
maintain that bodily actions and speech really exist,] the
same difficulty confronts you"* (second part of S. 3). In so
far as you never observe that the bodily actions and speech
of another are [necessarily] preceded by the movement of
his mind, [the existence of] another mind will not be
known even by means of them’? (S, 4).”

Realists: “We can know [the existence of] another mind:
since one’s own mind cannot be the efficient cause?” of the
bodily actions and speech of another," [the only plausible
explanation is chat a mind other than one’s own is the
efficient cause of these actions] (first part of S. 5).”

Idealists: “Why cannot [one’sown mind be the efficient
cause of the bodily actions and speech of another]?
(second part of S. 5).”

Realists:  [First,] we never feel? the mind-cause**[—the mind

as a cause of the bodily actions and speech of others—] in

our own [sametana;*

in other words, if there is a mind
which is the cause of the bodily actions and speech of
another person, it should be outside of our samtina]
(S. 6). Second, [those actions] which are caused
by our own mind are [always] found in our own

[samedna]?* (S. 7). If, [therefore,] the actions and speech

18 Lit. transl,: No because of the same [error on your side].

19 Lit. transl: In so far as the bodily actions and speech as being
preceded by the representations (=the mind) of another person are never seen
even by you, they [=the representations (=the mind) of that other person]
will not be known even by means of them.

20. Tib. rgyu-mtshan, Ske. nimitta.

21 Tib. gshan-la yod-pa-dag.

22 Tib. so-sor yaii-dag-par myoit-ba, Skt. pratisam/vid,

23 Tib. kun-nas slof-bahi sems, Ske. samutthapakam cittam. cf. Maha-
vyutpacei 4683.

24 Tib. rai-gi. Both of the commentaries read ie ‘rai-gi rgyud-la’,

25 Lit. transl: Moreover, that which relies on our own mind is found
in ourselves.

Google

A Refutation of Solipsism 6

of another were also caused by out own mind, they
should be perceived in the same way as our own actions
[which, we know, are caused by our own mind. In other
words, they should be found in our own samtana] (S. 8).
But we know by experience that such is not the case.
Therefore, we cannot but admit that the actions of another
have their own efficient cause [outside of our samtina]”*
(S. 9)”

Idealists: “Certainly, we agree with you that we do not feel
in our own [samedna] the mind-cause [as a cause of the
bodily actions and speech of others]27 (S. 10). [But from
our point of view, the rest of your argument should be as
follows: All] che representations, which appear as the
signifiers [of the existence of mind] and have a movement
of one’s own mind as their efficient cause, appear to us as
our own [bodily actions and speech].* Therefore, those
[representations] which appear as external?* things must
have been caused by another efficient cause [than one’s
own mind] (S. 11),”

Realists: “Could it not be that those representations which
appear as external things do not have [the movement of
mind as their] efficient cause at all? (S. 12).”
[le seems thae the Realists are tacitly assuming that the representa-
tions which appear as external things resule from mechanical causation
rather than mental activity.]

26 Lit. transl: Thus, [the existence of] another efficient cause has been
proved,

27 Lit. transl: Since even according to us (gshan-la_yan) [—who hold
idealism—] one [is] not [supposed to] fecl the mind-cause in his own
[samtdna (cf. foot-note 24), we hold] the same [view as you do as to the first
point of your argument) ,

28 Tib. Kha nai-du bltas-pahi snai-ba yin-par rtogs-pa, Lit. transl.:
To be cognized as an appearance which concerns to ourselves. Skt, for ‘kha
nafedu’ is ‘antarmukha’.

29 Tib. Kha phyic bleas-pahi snafi-ba-dag. Lit. transl
ances which concern to external things. Skt. for ‘kha phyir’

Those appear-
‘bahirmukha’.

Google
62 A Refutation of Solipsism

Idealists; “IE [we admit that] they do not have the movement
of mind as their efficient cause, we may be led to admit
that nothing has [the movement of mind as its] efficient
cause (S. 13). [Certainly,] there isa distinction between
those representations which appear as things separated
from us*® and those which appear as things connected to
us." But the distinction of these [ewo types of] represen-

tations does not depend on whether or not the representa-

tions have a movement of mind as theit efficient cause

(S. 14). Consequently, even those [representations] which

appear as things connected to us may not have [a move-

ment of mind as their] efficient cause, because no distinc-
tion, [in terms of their having or not having efficient
cause,] is possible [between these two types of representa-
tions] (S. 15), Therefore, we cannot admic that only
those special [representations of bodily actions and_ speech]
which appear as things connected to us* are [causally]

preceded by the movement of mind (S. 16).”
Realists: “Why noe? (first part of S. 17).”

Idealists: «[First, because some representations] which appear
as a certain kind of actions are definitely [preceded by the
movement of mind] even if [they appear as things] sepa-
tated from us (second part of S. 17). [For instance,] che
arrows and stones shot [into the air] have the movement
of the mind of the person having shot them as their efficient,
cause. The actions of a machine are caused by a movement
of the mind of the operator; likewise the speech**

30. Tib, rnam-par chad-pa, Ske. vicchinna.

3 Tib, enam-par ma chad-pa, Skt. avicchinna.

32 Vinitadeva’s commentary is helpful to understand the meaning of
each of the two ‘khyad-par’ in this siitra. He paraphrases ‘snafi-bahi_khyad-
par rnam-par ma chad pahi khyad-par-can’ as ‘bya-ba dan tshig-tu snaf-ba
rnam-par ma chad-pahi khyad-par-can’.

33 Vinitadeva gives ‘sprul-pahi bya-bahi_ khyad-par ni brjod-pahi
mtshan-iiid yin-no’.

Google
A Refutation of Solipsism 63

of a phantom or the psychological activities** of one
who is under the magical influence of another, have a
movement of the mind of the magician as their efficient
cause, And all these are the representations which appear
as things separated from us*® (S. 18). [Secondly,] the
movements [of our mind are the representations which
appear as things most closely] connected to us. But when
these movements are caused by another person, they are
not [causally] preceded by the movement of our own
mind®* (S. 19). In view of these facts, it is [more]
reasonable [to assume] chat we cognize [the existence of]
the movement [of mind] simply through [the representa-
tions of] certain kinds of actions, [namely, the bodily
actions and specch,] regardless of [whether or not these
representations refer to the actions connected to us or
separated from us] (S. 20). [Thus,] there is no distinc.
tion [between these two types of representations in terms

34 Vinitadeva gives ‘gshan-gyis rab-tu bskyod-pahi bya-bahi khyad-par
ni pyo-bahi mtshan-fid yin-no’.

35 Lit. transl,: For, [those representations] —which appear as a certain
kind of actions such as [the actions] of the arrows and stones shot [into the
aic,] machines, phantoms and those who are agitated by the magic of another
are preceded by the movement of mind; although [these representations]
appear as things separated from us.

36 Lit. transl: The movements of our mind etc. caused by another
person are not preceded by the movement of our own mind; although they
appear as things connected to us.

Nag-dbaiy-bstan-dar interprets this siitra as follows: ‘The movements of
our own body ete. caused by another person are not preceded bys...e00e’ In
other words, he interprets “yyo-ba’ as ‘lus yyo-ba’. Stcherbatsky, follows Nag-
dbai-bstan-dar_and explains the situation by, the example of a swing. When
someone on a swing is pushed by another, the bodily actions of the one on a
swing are caused by the movement of the mind of the person who pushes the
swing, But I don't find any reason why we should understand ‘yyo-ba’ as
‘bodily actions’ against all other usages of this word in Samtinantarasiddhi
(cE. foot-note 11). The fact that Vinitadeva gives no comment on this word
shows, I believe, that he simply understands ‘yyo-ba’ to mean the movement of
mind—the meaning always given to this word in Samtanantarasiddbi.

Google
A Refutation of Solipsism

of their efficient cause]. Therefore, if one of these two
types of representations is not preceded [by the movement
of mind as its efficient cause,] the other [type of represen-
tations] may also not be preceded by the movement of
mind (S. 21). To sum up: certain kinds of the move-
ment [of mind, namely, che will of speaking, walking
etc.,] ate cognized through certain kinds of actions
regardless of [whether or not these actions appear as things
connected to us or separated from us, But we] cannot
[cognize] whether [these movements of mind are of greed
or anger or stupidity]*? (S. 22), You Realists** cognize
[the existence of] the movement of another [person's
mind] on the ground that you do not experience any
movement [of mind] in yourself when you perceive his
actions; so do we. But [we claim that] one perceives
[the representations] which appear as the actions [of
another, while you say that he perceives the actions of
another] (S. 23). [Once you refuted us on the grounds
that those representations which appear as external objects
may not have the movement of mind as their efficient
cause. But] we do not believe that you yourself admit
that the speech and [bodily] actions of another person do
not have [mental activity as theit] efficient cause. [For if
you admit this, you must lose the grounds on which you
can prove the existence of another mind. Therefore, you
have] the same [fault which you have pointed out in the
method of our reasoning**] (S. 24). To conclude, [both

37 ‘But we) cannot [cognize] whether [these movements of mind are

of greed or anger or stupidity] is the transl
par spyi’. Vinitadeva gives ‘spyi shes-by:

ion of ‘spyi’ of ‘yyo-bahi khyad-
-ba_smos-pas ni hdod-chags dait

she-sdaf dai gti-muk-la-sogs-pahi khyad-par yori-su spoficbar byed~de’.
38 Tib. dela, Nag-dbaf-bstan-dar gives ‘de yaty mdo-sde-pa khyod-kyi

39. Lit. transl: Why you too (pha-rol-po yaa) do not admit that the
bodily actions and speech of another do not have [mental activity as their]
efficient cause? The [fault] is the same.

Google
‘A Refutation of Solipsism 65

of us] should declare that both [speech and bodily actions,
whether we consider them representations or entities,]
undoubtedly have a movement [or mind] as their efficient
cause and, therefore, they will not occur when there is nu
movement of mind (S. 25). [It is clear, then, that prac-
tically] there is no difference between us‘® [in the method
of reasoning] because wet! may [infer the existence of
another mind] from the representations of actions as
[you do] from the actions per se. (S. 26).

Realists: “You claim chat [all of our] representations of the
bodily actions and speech are efficiently caused by the
movement [of mind.] Then, why don’t you claim [that
the representations] in our dreams also [have the movement
of mind as their efficient cause]? (S. 27).”

Idealists: (Yes, we do, Fundamentally,] both cases are the
same (S, 28). Why don’t you [agree with us and] say
that the [bodily] actions and speech of another person
which we perceive in our dreams have the movement [of
his mind] as cheie efficient cause? (S. 29).”

Realists: (No, we do not;] because they do not really exist
(S. 30).”

Idealists: «[But] why do they not exist? We perceive [them

dreams] just as we do when we are awake (S. 31).

Realists: “Since a man is overcome by sleep, consciousness‘?
empty of reality will occur [in dreams] (S. 32).”

Idealists: ‘Precisely for this same reason, it is possible for us
too to allow that the consciousness empty of the support of
another person's‘? [mental activity] occur [in our dreams]

(S. 33)"

40. Tid. hdi-dag. The interpretation of this pronoun is not the same

between Vinitadeva and Nag-dbaivbstan-dar. The former gives ‘de-Ita-bas-na
phyi-rol-gyi don-du smea-ba dai ées-bya nai-gi yin-par smra-ba hdi-dag ni
phan tshun khyad-par yod-par mi hgyur-ro’; the latter gives’,,.grub-mtha
hdi-dag ni hu-bu-cag gnis phan-tshun khyad-par med-do’ I followed Vinitadeva,

4 Tib, pharrol-po, 42 Tib. enam-par Ses-pa. Skt. vijiua.
43 Tib, gshan-gyi dba (che support of another), Skt, paratantra,

9 Google
66 A Refutation of Solipsisr

[The Idealists, for the sake of consistency, maintain that even those
actions and speech which we perceive in dreams should have the mind
of another as the efficient cause just as do those representations one
experiences when he is awake. But they also allow, as an exception,
that some of the representations in dreams occur during a state of
mental paralysis and are not necessarily caused by the movement of
another mind. It should be noticed that according to the Idealists
even in the case of dreams the state of mental paralysis is theoretically
an exceptional one, For, the Idealists believe that some dreams are
actually caused by the movement of another mind. (To be treated in
Sitras: 37-39).

According to both of the commentators the argument set forth above
were against the Sautrantikas. The following is against the Vaibhasi-
kas, the most radical of the realist schools in Buddhism. The Vaibha-
sikas are concerned with the same problem, i.e, dreams, but they ap-
proach it from a different view-point.]

Vaibhasikas: ‘In so far as you have admitted that even in
dreams the representations are not empty of reality,[you
hold the same view with us;] all [the persons] we perceive
in dreams are other samtanas [and, consequently, real]
(S. 34).”

[The Vaibhasikas contend that even the bodily actions and speech
which we perceive in dreams have real existence; the Sautrantikas
claim that only the actions and speech which we perceive while we
are awake really exist. Against the opinions expressed by both of
these groups of Realists, the Idealists proclaim that everything whether
it is perceived in dreams or not is representations and not real. The
Sautrantikas have tried to point out errors in the argument of the
Idealists which admits no distinction between the representations of the
state of waking and that of sleeping. The Vaibhisikas are, on the
other hand, trying to win the Idealists to their own side, pointing out
that in so faras there is no distinction between these two kinds
of representations and even the representations in dreams are not
empty of reality, whatever we perceive, whether we are dreaming
or awake, must be real. The Idealists answer the Vaibhisikas as
follows.

Google _

A Refutation of Solipsism &

Idealists: “Since you argue only for the sake of arguing**, you
have strayed from the teaching of the Buddha and from
right reasoning. So, your argument is groundless‘*. By
no means we are to be pursuaded [by you] that all bodily
actions and speech which occur in dreams must be suppor-
ted by another person’s [mental activity and consequently
are real] (S. 35).”

[Then the Idealists present their own case.]

Idealists: «[Certainly,] we are the ones who claim that all
representations of bodily actions and speech** are caused
by the samtina of another person. Bue the difference [be-
tween the state of waking and that of sleeping is that in

“the former case we get most of those representations
through] direct perception [while in the latter case they
arise mostly from] memories (S. 36). [Actually,] some-
times we do perceive real beings even in a dream, and
[in this instance] we must admic that [the representations]
are caused [directly] by another person's samedna [apart
from the medium of memories] (S. 37). [For example,
sometimes] we see real dreams by the grace of gods etc.
(S. 38). Therefore, omr argument [—fundamentally,
everything is the same in dreams as when we are awake—]
is not groundless (S. 39).”

[Since by now the Idealists feel chat they have successfully refuted
the Realists, they try totake the offensive. According to the com-
mentators their opponents are again the Sautrantikas,]

Idealists; “By the way, even if [bodily] actions [and speech]

. are real entities, how can you cognize the existence of
another mind by means of them?¢" (5. 40).””

Realists: ‘Because they are the effects of [the movement
of] mind (S. 41).”

44 Lit. transl: Since you are arguing only to win over us (pha-rol-po),

45 Lit, transl.: So, you rely on such a groundless argument,

46 Tib. de-lta-bubi Ses-pa thams-cad

47 Lit transl: By the way, how can you cognize a mind even by means
of real bodily actions (bya-ba de itid) >

Google
68 A Refutation of Solipsism

Idealists: [Your reasoning, ie. the reasoning from] the
effects [to their cause,] is just as applicable to [our proof
of the existence of] another mind." Why can one not
cognize [the existence of another mind through the re-
presentations of bodily actions and speech]? (S. 42).”

Realists: «*[The representations of the bodily actions and
speech are not necessarily required when we cognize the
existence of mind, For,] one can cognize his own samtina
on the basis of the mere existence of his [bodily] actions*®
(second part of S. 43).”

Even if®® [the answer of the Realists is as above, the Idealists
reply as follows:] (first part of S. 43).

Idealists; “Then, [you must admit that] even those who do
not perceive [the bodily actions of another person] would
be able to cognize another samtina‘! (third part of
S. 43)”

Realists:  ‘[No, those who do not perceive] cannot [cognize
the existence of another samtdna]. For, indicators**
must be [perceived and] represented [in our mind]
(S. 44).”

Idealists: “If you admit that the possibility of cognition turns
upon the presence of the representations of bo
and speech and not upon the existence of bodily actions and
speech as separate entities,°® it is unnecessary to insist on
[such a complicated] process [of cognition] that from [the
movement of] another person’s mind the [bodily] actions

ily actions

48 Lit. trans: To be the effects [of the movement] of mind is the
same even when {we the Idealists prove the existence of] another mind
[through the representations of bodily actions and speech].

Nag-dbai-bstan-dar tells us that the word ‘gshan’ in the sitra designates
‘another mind’,

49 1 suppose that the Realists are referting to the fact that we can know
the movements of our own hands, feet etc. without perceiving them.

50. Tib. gshan yaa gal-te.

51 Tib. de-lea-bu,

52 cf. foot-note 15. 53 Tib. de-la dehi tshe.

Google
A Refutation of Solipsism 69

[occur,] from the [bodily] actions the representations
foccur,] through these representations we cognize [the
existence of] another mind (S. 45). In fact, we cognize
[the existence of another mind] only by means of the
Fepresentations of [bodily] actions, which are caused by
[the movsment of] another mind (S. 46). For, this is the
crucial factor which makes the cognition of another mind
possible’, [To assume the necessity of an intermediate
step—the existence of real bodily actions—between the
movement of another mind and the representations
present to the cognizer is absurd] (S. 47).”

[Having thus criticized the view of the Realists, the Idealists briefly
outline theit method of proving the existence of another mind.]

Tdealists: “The movement [of mind,] whether of [one’s own
mind or of another person’s mind]** is the cause of the
representations of [bodily] actions and speech either of
[one’s self or of another].°* Therefore, we can cognize
the cause [—the movement of mind in general—]
through che effects [—the representations of any bodily
action] (S. 48). Among these representations, those
which are efficiently caused by a movement of one’s
own [mind] are experienced as our own‘? [bodily
actions,] while the representations caused by other persons
are experienced as external things’. — [Therefore, we

54 Lit. tcansl.: For, after all, the cognition of it depends on it.

55 Tib. yyo-ba-tsam-gyi spyi. According to Vinitadeva, ‘tsam? explains
the disticction whether a movement of mind is of greed or of anger or of
stupidity, and ‘spyi” explains the distinction whether it is the movement of
one’s own mind or of other persons’ mind.

56 Tib. bya-ba dai brjod-pahi Ses-pa spyi. According to Vinitadeva,
‘spyi’ explains the distinction whether the representations of bodily actions and
speech appear as things separated from us (enam-par chad-pa) or as things
coanected to us (rnam-par ma chad-pa).

57. Fib. kha naf.du bleas-pa. cf, foot-note 28.

58 Tib. gshan ni gshan-du yin, cf. foor-ote 2g.

Google
Jo ‘A Refutation of Solipsism

infer the existence of another mind through the latter
type of tepresentations.] But this distinction holds only
for the majority of the cases; [there are exceptions, such
as the Aying arrows and those movements of one’s own
mind which are caused by other minds}** (S. 49)-”

[Now the Idealists again consider the problem of dreams in order
to prove the validity of their epistemology.]

Idealists: “Even in the state of dreaming, the causal relation
between the movement of another mind and the repre-
sentations of the bodily actions and speech resulting
therefrom is the same as in the state of waking*® (S.50).
But in the state of illusion, [the representations which
appear as the bodily actions and speech of other persons]
are under the control of a certain additional condition,
[namely coma,] just as [the representations of] one’s own
[bodily actions and speech in dreams] are. Therefore,
it is possible in the illusory state of mind that the sub-
conscious residue (vasana) deposited in our consciousness,*?
the efficient cause of which is the movement of another
person's mind, sometimes will start to work even after a
[considerable] lapse of time from [the moment when the
actual] movement of another person’s mind*? took place.

59 cf. Siiteas 18, 19.

60 Tib. gshan na.

61 Vinitadeva’s commentary says ‘dmyal-ba-la-sogs-pa ni las-kyi_ rnam-
par smin-pahi gnas-skabs yort-su bsdubo’. Since the phrase ‘dmyal-ba......’
is not found in the sitra, the siitra on which he commented must have had a
different reading. Nag-dbai-bstan-dar says ‘According to the opinion of a
commentary the phrase “‘dmyal-ba-pas sdug-bsial myof-bar snai-ba las-kyi
Khyad-par-la fe-bar brten-pahi phyir (The representations which appear as the
pains experienced by the inhabitants of hell are under the control of an
additional condition, namely, a certain kind of their past deeds (karma)
‘Therefore,)"” must have been inserted here’.

62 Tib. rnam-par Ses-pa, Skt. vijiina,

63 Tib. gshan-gyi iie-bar sbyor-ba (the help of another person). Vinita-
deva gives ‘gshan-gyi iie-bar sbyor-ba ni gshan-gyi sems kyi byed-paho’,

Google

A Refutation of Solipsism zt

But it will never start to work, in the complete absence of
the movement [of another mind] (S. 5x). Therefore,
in any state [of mind, whether we be in the state of
waking or dreaming,] we can definitely infer the move-
ment of mind through the signifier—[the representations
of bodily] actions and speech (5. 52).””

[Having thus explained their position on the problem of dream

phenomena, the Idealists continue their refutation of realism.]

Idealists: “[You say that] one takes cognizance of the
movement [of another mind] by means of [an indicator—]
the [actual bodily] actions: [even] if this is the case,
you must admit that he is able to cognize [another mind]
in the state of sleeping as well as in the state of waking,
[because we see bodily actions in both cases]. But, if
you do not like to admic this, [you must know that the
cognition of anocher mind is] utterly impossible (S. 53).
For, [you are now denying your previous argument and
are claiming that] the perception of [bodily] actions can
occur even when there is no movement of another[mind]
(S. 54)”

Realists: [Of coutse,] perception may occur even in the
absence of [actual bodily] actions, (For, in an illusory
state of mind, perception is produced by our fancy without
there being any real objects, but bodily actions never take
place without the movement of mind preceding them.
But according to our theory,] one cognizes the movement
[of another mind not by means of the representations of
bodily actions, but] by means of the [bodily] actions
[themselves]. In the state of illusion, [such as a dream,]
there are no [actual bodily] actions; [what] occurs [here
are merely] the representations empty of reality. [and
from these we cannot infer the movement of another
mind]. Therefore, [our assertion that we cognize the
movement of another mind only while we are awake and
only by means of bodily actions, which really exist,] does
not present the difficulty [as pointed out by you] (S. 55).”

Google INIVERSITY O1
72 A Refutation of Solipsism

Idealists: “But upon what basis can you make that distinction
between the state of dreams which comprise mere represen-
tations empty of reality and the state of waking in which
real entities are involved? Do we not call those which you
term ‘dream representations’ and ‘real entities’ by the same
name viz., ‘bodily actions’? (S. 56),”

Realists: “Because of [the additional condition—] coma etc.
[—the situation] in the state [of illusion] is [entirely]
different [from that of the normal state of mind; rhe
representations in dreams are empty of reality while those
in the state of waking are not] (S. 57).”

Idealists: “If you think so, it is precisely because you are con
fused by avidya (S. 58).””

[According to Vinitadeva, Siitra 58 is to be paraphrased as follows:
If you admit that due to the mental derangement the situation in the
state of illusion is different from that of the normal state of mind and,
therefore, the representations in the state of dreams are empty of
reality, then you must also admit that all of our representations, in-
cluding even the representations in the state of waking, are empty of
reality; for, they are all due to avidya—the lord of mental derange-
menc.*® Avidya is one of the most fundamental concepts of Buddhism.
According tothe Buddhist philosophy, man is deceived by avidy3,
when he believes that something isa real entity. Thus the Idealists
charge the Realists on two counts: 1) In so far as you have admitted
the influence of mental derangement on the state of illusion, you must
also admit the influence of avidya even on the so-called normal state of
mind, Therefore, 2) all of our representations, whether of the state

64 Lie. transl: In our daily language the name is the same for all forms
(=we use a same name for a class of things in spite of all the individual differences
among the members). So, wherefrom have you got “the ability [to make a
distiction] that sometimes the representations are empty of reality and some-
times are not (gshan ni gshan-du yin-no).

65 Tib. gal-te hkhrul-pahi dbaf gis gnas-skabs gshan-du gyur-pa-las,
don-gyis stoivpahi Ses-pa hbyuit-bar khas-len-na ni debi tshe hkhrul-pahi rgyal-
pochen-po marrig-pa fiid yod-pas dehi dbai-gis ges-pa thams-cad don-gyis
stofi-pa hbyua: ito shes-bya-bar hdod-pa gyis sig.

Google
A Refutation of Solipsism B

of illusion or not, are empty of reality and there is no distinction be-
tween the representations in dreams and in the state of waking. The
Idealists are now triumphant.]

Idealises: “Thus, [your theory,] which claims [the reality of]
objects apart [from the mind,] has been refuted, Not
having been able to conceal your several errors, you are
now in a great trouble, With our single answer, [ive. ‘It
is precisely because you are confused by avidyi’, your whole
position] is definitely undermined (S. 59).”

[Here the main pare of Samtinantarasiddhi comes to a close.
Several supplementary, but significant, discussions are yet to follow.
The Realists refuse to admic defeat so quickly.]

(To be continued)

10

Google
Bibliographical Notes

The Deb-ther-snon-po (Blue Annals) translated by G. N. Roerich
in ewo volumes, covering 1275 pages, published by the Asiatic
Society, Calcutta 1953.

The Deb-ther-siion-po was completed by the author. 'Gos lo-tsi-ba
gZon-nu-dpal, abbot of the Karma-riia Monastery in 1478 A.D. Its
object is to detail the “Stages of the Appearance of the Doctrine and
Preachers inthe Land of Tibet.” It attempts to extablish a firm
chronology of events of Tibetan history, and contains lists of names
of famous religious teachers and their spiritual lineages. It is divided
into fifteen chapters or books, each devoted to the history of one
particular sect of Tibetan Buddhism.

“The first Book gives an account of the origin of the Sakya race,
and of the beginning of the Buddhist doctrine. This is followed by
a brief chronological account of the Tibetan kings of the VII-IXth
centuries A.D. The author gives also a list of T’ang Emperors and
a genealogical table of the Mongol Emperors.

The second Book deals with the Later Period of the Propagation of
the Doctrine.

The third Book contains an account of the early translations of
the Tantras into Tibetan.

The fourth Book deals with the Propagation of the so-called
“New” Tantras the spread of the ‘Path and Fruit,” Doctrine of the
Sa-skya-pas, and the story of their following.

The fifth Book gives the story of the Reformer Atisa and his
spiritual lineage.

The sixth Book deals with the story of tNog-lo-tsi-ba and his
spiritual lineage, and th: propagation of the Madhyamika, Nyaya and
Maitreya systems in Tibet. This is an important chapter of the
chronicle, and contains much valuable information on the early
teachers and translators from gTsai, to whose industry and learning
Tibetan Buddhism owes so much.

The seventh Book relates the origin of the exposition of the
Tantras in Tibet.

Google
Bibliographical Notes 75

The eighth Book gives the biography of the great translator Mar-
pa and his spiritual lineage known as the Dwags-po bKa’-drgyud.

The ninth Book deals with Ko-brag-pa and Ni-gu.

The tenth Book relates the spread of the important Kalacakra
Doctrine.

The eleventh Book deals with the school of the «Great Seal.”

The twelfth Book relates the spread of the Zi-byed school, and
gives a brief account of its Early, Intermediary and Later spiritual
lineages.

The thirteenth Book gives an account of the gCod-yul doctrine
and Kha-rug-pa.

The fourteenth Book deals with the Cycle of the Mahakirunika,
the Vajeamala etc.

The fifteenth Book tells of the origin of the monastic communities
of the four Schools, etc. and queries and answers about the printing
of the “BLUE ANNALS.”

Besides an excellent translation of the huge treatise, Dr. Roerich
has appended a large and valuable index, covering 174 (1095-1268)
pages divided into

I Satras and Sastras (Sanskeit)
IL Personal Names (Sanskrit)
Il Book Titles (Tibetan)
IV. Personal Names (Tibetan)
V_ Chinese Names, and
VI Mongol Names :

A Catalogue of the Tohoku University collection of Tibetan
Works on Buddhism. Edited by Profs. Y. Kanakura, R. Yamada,

T. Tada and H. Hadano. Published by the Seminary of Indology,
Tohoku University (2953) 525 pages.

This is a catalogue ‘of works on Buddhism written by Tibetan
scholars and now deposited in the Tohoku University Library. It
throws a flood of light on new Tibetan non-canonical materials
available for study. It gives in detail che names of writers, titles
of the works with a brief synopsis of the contents of the text in
English,

Google
76 Bibliographical Notes

Ie deals with 229 volumes, containing 2083 treatises, divided
into 24 sections, as follows: —

Section I: Works of Bu-ston.

Sections II-XVII: Works of the High Priests of Dge-lugs-pa

sect.
Section XVIII: Works on Guru-yoga (Esoteric practices)

Secrions XIX-XXI: Esoteric Stitras and Sistras in the canons
including works on Exoteric Buddhism
written by monks of the Dge-lugs-pa sect.

Section XXII: Miscellaneous works such as Bodhipatha-
keama by Atiéa, Byafi-chul-lam-rim by Tsoi-
kha-pa.

Secrion XXIII: Biographies and Histories.

Section XXIV ; Miscellaneous works dealing with grammar,
poetics, etc.

Journal Asiatique, 1951. Fasc. 3.

Les textes bouddbique au temps de Kbri-sroti-lde-bean. By
M. Lalou. Enumeration of 735 Tibetan works (classified under 30
heads) from Tanjur Vol. CXXVII.

Bulletin de I’Eoole Francaise d’Extreme-Orient, Vol. XLVI,
Fasc, 1. Hanoi, 19524

Etudes dépigrapbie indonésienne—IIl, Liste des principales
inscriptions datées de l'Indonésie. By L. C. Damais.

Five separate lists of inscriptions under the heads, Java (Central
and Eastern Java), Sunda (Western Java), Madura, Bali and Sumatra
with full references. Appendix consists of a comparative table of
Indonesian numeral signs from inscriptions under four separate
columns, namely, Java, Sunda, Bali and Sumatra,

La naissance de Sita. By C. Bulcke,

Exhaustive analysis of different stories of the birth of Sité drawn
from the narratives of Rama—legend in Indian (Brahmanical, Buddhist

Google
Bibliographical Notes 7

and Jaina), Tibetan, Khotanese, Javanese, Siamese, Cambodian and
Malay literature, with attempted reconstruction of the growth of the
versions. Classification of the birth-stories under four heads, namely,
1. Sita, the daughter of Janaka, 2. Sita, the daughter of the earth,
3. Sit and Lanka (Sita, daughter of Ravana, Sitd born out of a lotus,
Sita born out of the blood of rishis, Sita born out of fire), 4. Sita,
daughter of DaSaratha.

Etudes sur U'Indochine ancienne—Il. Les débuts de la royauté
angkorienne. By P. Dupont.

Critical examinations in the light of epigraphic and archaeological
evidence of the later traditions attributing the foundation of the
Angkorian monarchy Jayavarman II leads to the conclusion that he
played but a slighe part in its history.

The genealogy and successors of Sivicirya. Suppression of the
great sacerdotal families by Suryavarman I. By L. P. Briggs.

Genealogy of Sivakaivalya, guru of Jayavarman II, traced from the
inscriptions—Disappearance of all great. sacerdotal families furnishing
or shortly after the
time of Siryavarman I probably points to a religious administrative

priests, chaplains and ministers to previous king

reform in the reign of that king.

Etudes d'iconograpbie bouddbique et brabmanique. By
H. Deydier.

Identification of two Jataka stories and an episode from the
Jambupati-sutta on the mural paintings of two temples at Luang
Prabang, capital of Laos. Identifications of scenes from the
Kirdtaparvan of the Mababbarata and those front Krsna’s life in the
Bhagavata-Purina on basteliefs of the Prasat Khna Sen Keo and
gopuras of the Baphiion respectively in Cambodia.

Bulletin de \’Eoole Francaise d’Extreme-Orient, Vol. XLIV.
Fasc, 2. Hanoi, 1954.

Titres et colophons d’onvrages non-canoniques tibétains. By
Jacques Bacot.

Sixtyseven entries with Tibetan (and equivalent Sanskrit) titles and
Tibetan (with equivalent French ) colophons—Indexes of names,

Google
78 Bibliographical Notes

places and miscellaneous terms—Table of Dalai and Tashi Lamas
(1qth-2oth centuries).

La Yogacarabbami de Sangharaksa. By Paul Demitville.

Introduction—Title of work—Chinese versions—Description of
author—Analysis of text.

Le Symbolisme monument du Phnom Bakben. By Jean
Filliozat.

The monument represents Mount Meru or Sumeru, the centre of
the world, according to Indian cosmological conceptions—The central
tower is the polar axis of the mountain and the surrounding 108 towers
represent the cosmic revolutions around this axis.

Note sur la forme du stzpa au Cambodge. By Henri Marchal.

Evolution of the stijpa in Cambodia with diagrams.

Kanok Nakbon, an ancient Mon Settlement in North-east Siam
(Thailand) and its treasures of art. By Major Erik Seidenfaden.

The Buddhist antiquities of this settlement belonging to the
seventh century A. D. bear the impress of the wellknown Dvaravati
school of ancient Siam.

Diversité et rythme des fondation royales kbmires. By Philippe
Stern,

Contrast between two different types of Khmer architecture,
namely, the royal temple-mountain and the temple of the ancestors to
which has to be added a third type, namely, that of constructions of
public interest—These types follow a rhythmic order with the first
coming at the beginning of the reign and the second and the third
following in succession—Illustration of the above remarks from the
constructions with known dates of four great kings, namely,
Indravarman, YaSovarman I, Rajendravarman and Jayavarman ViI—
Origin of the above conceptions and general character of evolution of
Khmer architecture.

Journal of Indian and Buddhist Studies (in Japanese) Published
by the Japanese Association of India and Buddhist Studies University
of Tokyo Japan.

Google
Bibliographical Notes 79

The first issue of this valuable studies was published in July 1952,
and then two issues in each of the two years 1953 and 1954. A list
of the important papers on Greater Indian subjects is given below: —

Vor. I, No. 1
T. Sato: «San-ti San-kuan” Thought of Trien-t’ai Ta-shih.
1, Hori: On the Education of Scholar-Priests in Our Country.
G. Okada: One Side of the Doctrine of Zen Master Dogen.
S. Ohara: The Problem of Social Practice in Shintan’s Teaching.
J. Oda: On the Mandala Idea of Shingon Mysticism.
K. Shigyo: On the Buddhology as found in Nichiren's Kanjin-
bonzonsho.

H. Hashimoto: On the Transmission of Vimalekirti-nirdesa,

Vor. I, No. 2.

Reiho Masunaga: The standpoint of Dogen and his Treatise on
Time.

Ryoshu Michihata: T'ang Buddhism and Family Ethics.

Otaya Tanaka: On the Transmission of Indian Folk Tales.

Tairyo Makita Ming Buddhism as seen through the Records of
Sakugen Mission to China.

Kotatsu Fujita: (i) The Doctrinal Classification of Buddhism
within Japanese Tendai.
(ii) Coincidence of Tendai and Esoteric Mikkyo
and its Development.

Yukio Sakamoto: Yen Fa-Shih in the History of Doctrinal
Classification,

Kojun Fukui: On the Founder Master of Buddhism in Japan.

Vor. II, No. 1
Ryoshu Michihata: The Twentyfour Filial Piety and Chinese
Buddhism.
Senshu Ogasaware: Chinese Buddhist Life in the Medieval
Period.

Kyogo Sasaki: The Tibetan Version of Si-yu-chi and its Translator,

Google
80 Bibliographical Notes

Gadjin M. Nagao: Idealistic School of Buddhism (Vijfanaveda)
preserved in Tibet.

Vou. Il, No. 2
Zentyu Tsukamoto: Buddhism of che Yun-Kang Cave Temples.
Shokin Furuta: The Philosophy of Dokuan Genko.

Tetsuei Sato: A Study in the Theory of Five Skilfulnesses of
Tien-t'ai Tashih.

Kojun Fukui: Kotzu Taoism and Buddhism.

Ryoshu Michihata: The Buddhist Non-submission co Temporal
Powers in the T’ang Dynasty.

Jiko Sekiguchi: Shuang féng Tao hsin and the Theory of T'ien-t”
ai Shih kuan.

Vo. III, No. 1

Yukio Sakamoto: The Significance and Structure of Dotai-engi
Thought,

Mitsuyuki Ishida: The Problem of Formation of the Kyo-gyo-
sbin-sho.

Reimon Yuki: The Early Jodo Schools of India.

Reiho Masunaga: The Experience of Fundamental Truth in Zen
Buddhism.

Enjun Miyazaki: The Foundation of the Medieval Buddhist
Brotherhood.

Shuken Inaba: The Nembutsu of the Oojoyosbu and the Oojojuin.

Tiko Seltiguchi: On the Section Zen in the T'ien-t'ai Meditative
Method.

Google

JOURNAL

OF THE
GREATER INDIA SOCIETY
“Vol. XIV 1985 “No. 2

Numismatic Data in the Niya Kharosthi Documents

from Central Asia
Ratna CHANDRA AGRAWALA, M.A.

About fifty years ago Sir A. Stein, duting his archaeological
exploration and excavations! in Chinese Turkestan, unearthed and
brought to light from age-long oblivion a huge collection of the Kbarosthi
documents, about 782 in number, These records, written in Prakrt,
have been recovered from small wooden tablets, leather pieces,
silk fragments, paper manuscripts etc. They throw a flood of light on

Abbreviations used: —

No. or KI. =Kharosthi Inscriptions discovered by Sir A Stein
in, Chinese Turkestan, Oxford, 1929, vols. 1, Il,
III (Text only).

Trans =Butrow, T., A Translation of the Kharostbi Docu-
ments from Chinese Turkestan, 1940, London.

Language =Burrow. T., The Language of the Kbarosthi Docu-
ments from Chinese Turkestan, 1937, Cambridge,

BSOS —=Bulletin of the School of Oriental and African
Studies, University of London.

IRAS = Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society, London.

INSI —-=Journal of the Numismatic Society of India,
Bombay,

1 At the ruined sites of Niya, Endere and Loulan which were once
included in the Shan-Shan kingdom.

2 764 documents have been published in three volumes of KI while 18
more in BSOS.y 1X, 1937-9, pp- 111-25, '

Google ‘
82 Numismatic Data in the Niya Decuments from Central Asia

the social, religious, political and economic conditions of the region
in the early centuries of the Christian era.

Ie is evident trom the documents that taxes in Chinese Turkestan
were paid in the shape of animals, grains, ghee, wine, textile-goods,
fruits etc. Payment of milk-fees in matters of adoption was exclusively
made in animals, Nevertheless, numerous transactions (such as sale
and purchase of both movable and immovable property) were conducted
in various indigenous and foreign coins called muli, sadera (ot satera),
drakbma (or trakbma), dhane, masa (ot maga) etc.

1. Use of Coins

The documents refer to the coins in the following context: —

(a) Purchase of girls (nos. 437, 589), wine (no 571), land (nos.
419). 579» textile goods (nos. 222, 327, 343, 549» 579)»
sugar (no. 702), spices (no. 437, 702), animals (nos. 580,
589 590, 592, 661).

(6) Payment of recompense (pratikard) for a slave (no. 324).

(©) Giving money on loan (nos. 393, 500). Even Buddhist
monks called framanas, undertook financial transactions,
sometimes amounting to as much as 2800 mayas* (no. 500).
This is not very surprising when we meet these Sramanas
frequently leading secular and wordly lives‘.

Il. History of Coinage as depicted in the documents.
The documents furnish a series of five rulers of Shan Shan king-
dom :—Pepiya, Tajaka, Amgoka, Mahiri and Vasmana,
There can be no doubt as to the order of succession of the last
three kings (KI, III, p. 323) and that chis group of rulers was preceded
by two rulers named Pepiya and Tajaka. Prof. Rapson suggests

3 CE Alloan of 15,000 pieces of money is mentioned in an eighth century
Chinese document recovered from Chinese Turkestan (A. Stein, Ancient
Kbotan, Oxtord, 1908, p. 267).

4 CE My article “Life of Buddhist Monks in Chinese Turkestan” in
Laksmana Sarup Memorial Volume, Hoshiarpur, pp. 175-182 ; also my paper
in the Journal of the Greater India Society, Calcutta, XIV (i), pp. 13-54.

Google
Numismatic Data in the Niya Documents from Central Asia 83

that “Tajaka may have been the first in the series (KI, Ill, p. 323)"
This may account well for the paucity of che documents dated in his
reign-period.

Only one document (no. 324) dated in the reign-period of king
Tajaka has come to light so far. It states that a certain transaction
‘concerning land’ was conducted in exchange for an agiltsa* camel.
Reference to any coin as such is conspicuous by its absence here. It
was duting the regime of the next ruler (ise. Pepiya) that a new
currency called muli* (nos. 495, 655) scems to have made its first
appearance in the market. It is not yet known whether muti. was a
native currency or whether it was introduced into Chinese Turkestan
for the first time in the reign period of Pepiya. The documents dated
in the reign periods of the above rulers refer to the mulis only.

Ic was in the 28ch regnal year of king Amzoka’s (next to Pepiya
in succession) that a transaction in gold staters (suvarnasadera in
no. 419) is referred to for the first time, The documents of this
period (nos. 437, 571, 579, 580, 582, 589, 587, 592) refer to the
frequent use of mulis in several transactions, and there appears to have
been no tangible rise of fall in the purchasing power of mali coin’.

5 A variety of camels.

6 Also Muli, in some documents, means “price” or Sanskeit Miya;
cf, no, 762 D. 1 of KI, Ill, p, 284 referring to afpase muli milima 4. 3. (kbi
various phrases as snda (or sutra) muli (n0. 590), aiiga (or atga) muli (nos. 327.
571,592, adba muli (no. 589), sirsa-asa muli (no. 589), pimda muli (no. 327),
orobaga muli (no, 420), orovaga muli (no. 575), suka muli (nos. 59, 211, 309),
“When numerals alone are used with mali, milima appears to be understood
(Editors in KI, I, p. 363, sv. muliy, CE Language, p. 1113 Trans, p, 39,
note of no, 210.

7 Dr. H. W. Bailey, in a personal note (dated Cambridge, xgth April,
1953). even hesitates to take muli as a coin denomination. The problem will
be discussed at length while pointing out the relationship between the gold
staters and the mulis, 1am really thankful to Dr. Bailey for his kind note.

8 An amblatsa camel worth 30 mulis (no. 590) in the 17th year of
Amgoka’s reign and the same price continued right up to 32nd year of the
reign-period of the same ruler (no. 592). Only the price of a viyala camel
increased by two mulis (cf. nos. 437, 590) and that too after a wide gap of
17 years.

Google
84 Numismatic Data in the Niya Documents from Central Asia

From the point of view of coinage, the reign period of Amgoka's
successor (i.e. Mahiri or Mayici) was very important indeed. Muli,
suvarna-sedera, trakbma (no. 324) and masa (no. 500) were all in
circulation in the contemporary markets. It is rather difficult to
account for the sudden appearance of the trakbmas and the masas in
this period. The problem'of the mages might have been solved it
document no. 149 (tefetting to masas as many as 2500 in number) had
furnished a reference to the name of the ruler at the same time.

The reign period of king Vagmana (i.e. successor of king Mahiri)
saw mulis in frequent transactions (doc. no. 345 referring to as many
as 110 mulis) while masas, gold staters and trakbmas do not seem to
have been current at this time. We cannot prove that muli drove
the other coins out of the market, but we may conjecture chat muli
currency had completely captured the market according to the theory
of the circulation of money which later on came to be known as
Gresham's Law.

Document no, 661 refers to the sale of a camel for 8000 masas
(so uto vikrinami mulayamna masa sabasra asti 4.4.1000) in the reign
period of king Hinajhadeva Vijita Simba of Khotan, - The use of the
misas, towards the end of the third century A. D., is of course evident
from this important document. Ig remains a mystery why documents,
dated in the reign period of king Vasmana, absolutely fail to refer to
the masa coins. It may be that the masas had vanished from Shan-
Shan kingdom (after Mayiri’s time) though they were still current
in che markets of the neighbouring state of Khotan. It is of course
too eatly to propound such views with defiaiteness. All our sugges-
tions ‘must remain conjectures till future discoveries enable us to say
something conclusive and tangible.

IIL. Greek Coinage: Staters and Drachmas: —
Only 4 out of all these 782 documents refer to gold staters

9. Prof. F, W. Thomas (BSOS., XI, p. 523) dates the document towards
the end of the third century A.D, and after the conquest of Vasmana’s kingdom
by the Khotanese ruler,

Google
Numismatic Data in the Niya Documents from Central Asia 85

(swvarna satera'®, suvarna sadera),!* while simple saderas are stated only
in a solitary document no. 702.

As regards the identification of the suvarna satera (or sedera) with
Greek geld stater, the problem has already been discussed by various
scholars along with that of the silver coin known as trakbma ot
drakbma of the existing documents. The Greck stater is to be found
in ancient Indian literature in different forms as sateraka (in an
unpublished Jain work of the 6th century A.D., the Adgavijja,
Chapter 9, Panpamapatala as cited in JNSI, XIV, p. 110) and
satera (in the Sphut-arthi-bbidharmakosa Vyakbya, edited by
Unrai Wogihara, Tokyo, pt. Il, 1932-36, p. 368, Il. 20 ff;
in the Ganitasira Sarigraba of Mahivira, edited by M. Raigichirya,
Madras, 1912, Chapter I, verse 433 Cf. F. W. Thomas, JRAS, 1926,
p+ 507, f,n. 13 Barnete L. D., Antiquities of India, London, 1913,
p- 207). The abbreviated form, s4, also occurs in the Bakbshali-
Manuscript.

Except in one document (ng. 431 referring to suvarna sadera 1
only), gold staters are enumerated along with

(3) Kampo (CE, kanaka-Sakasyami kampo x suvarna sadera t
ladba ia no. 43). We are told here that one gold stater
and one kampo were found in some golden pot (?) and the
people of Cadora (name of a locality) including the moun.
taincers stood witness to that effect (no. 43). This particular
document may refer to the discovery of some treasure
trove. Since gold staters and kampos were found in a
negligible quantity, ic can be well argued that theie
number was pethaps quite scanty even before the time of
their discovery. Ie is not possible to throw any light on

10 CE. suvarna satera 2 trakbma 2 in n0. 324.

11 CE. Nos. 43, 419, 43.

1a JRAS. 1924, pp. 671-2, 1926, p. 507, 1930, p. 17; BSOS., VIII,

142, XIll, pp. 128-9; Acta Orientalia, VI, pp. 255-6, XIV, p. x015
§ Konow, Cll, Pe I, 1929, Calcutta, pp. 98-93 W. W. Tarn, The Greeks
in India and Bactria, ¥ edition, pp. 85 f%; my articles in JNSL, XIV,
pp. 103 ff, ibid; XV, pr. Il, pp. 153-54 ; tbid, XVI (ii) pp. 219-35.

Google -
86 Numismatic Data in the Niya Documents from Central Asia

the identification of the word kampo. Ic might have been
some coin denomination.

(6) Trakbma:—Two gold staters and 2 drachmas were paid as
recompense fora slave (no. 324—imade mamnusasa prati-
kara suvarna-satera 2 trakbma 2).

() Muli, In a solitary document'® (no, 419), dated cowards
the end of 28th regnal year of king Amkvage, we are told
that a certain plot of land was purchased for one gold
stater but an additional payment of 2 mulis brought the
total price to 12 mulis:—Krita tita muli suvarna-sadera 1
amfia. muli 2, utara pimda muli tita badasa 12. It now
appears that 1 gold stater and two mulis together were
equal to 12 mulis, thus bringing the rate of exchange
between a muli and a suvarna sadera as 10:1 »

In my previous article (NSP, XIV, pp, 103 &.) it was provisionally
concluded that one gold stater was equal to 12 mulis. The earlier views,
mainly based on the study of two documents (nos. 431 and 579), need
further analysis and scrutiny. Intno. 431, we learn that the queen
herself came and demanded one gold stater from a certain person.
Failing to comply with her demand, because the latter had no such
coin in his possession, he offered her a carpet 13 cubits in length’
(no. 431:—devi ayida, suvarna-sadera 1 pruchida suvarna'® nasti, tasa
bbagena tavastaga trodasa hasta ditasa). Another document (no. 579)
clearly states that a carpet of the above size (i.e. 13 cubies in length)
could be had for 12 mulis (ive. bbumavikrid gida muli tabastaga
basta 13 badata muliyena).

From the above account it is not plausible to conclude mathe-

matically that a carpet 13 cubits long had actually cost one gold stater

13 In this document muli is first used in the sense of “price” and later
on as a “coin”. ;

14 ite. He offered one carpet instead of one suvarna sadera.

15 An abbreviated form of suvarna sadera perhaps due to some clerical
mistake, The scribe here was very particular about the prefix suvarna whicls
apparently indicated a gold stater. Reference to sadera, instead of suvarna
sadera might have conveyed altogether a different sense (j.e. ordinacy staters
as different from the gold staters).

Google
Numismatic Data in the Niya Documents from Central Asia 87

and that one gold stater was equal to 12 mulis, Document no. 419
has clearly put forth the relationship between a gold stater and a muli
(ise. 1:10), The queen, who was offered a carpet (instead of one gold
stater), actually got an dbject worth 12 mulis, i.e. she was a gainer by
2 mulis.™* Ic is generally to the recipient's advantage when payment is
made in shape of goods instead of currency. If we presume that one gold
stater was the actual price of a carpet and that 1 gold stater was equal
to 12 mulis in the gth year of Amgoka’s reign, we must then account
for the change in the exchange value of a gold stater within a period of
19 years."% No document, which tries to throw any light on the
relation of masas, has been recovered so far,

Dr. Bailey doubts whether muli was atvall a coin denomination
for the word is also used in the sense of “price” or “value” (=Ske.
miilya) in the existing documents. But on this hypothesis it would
appear from no. 419 (discussed above) chat there was pethaps no
smaller denomination than the gold stater and that the gold staters were
not in frequent currency in the market, The whole transaction was
actually conducted in mulis though prices were sometimes accounted
in gold staters. Mulis well served the purpose of making payments
forys, 14, and 34 of a gold stater. Reference to 5, 10 and 15 mulis
at several places corroborate the truth of this statement.

Muli and Ki are enumerated together in no. 210. Ie is evident
from many documents that one kbi = 1/20 milima= 1/20 mili.
As regatds the relationship of Abi (a weight denomination) and muti
[a coin denomination], it appears that in the absence of any coin
denomination less than a muli, kbi (cf. corn measured in kbis) served
the purpose well. Thus in some documents when mulis are enume-
rated along with 5, 10 and 15 kbis etc., the latter imply 34, 34, and
Yj of a muli coin respectively.

No muli coins have so far been found. The explorations and
excavations in Chinese Turkestan have altogether failed to bring to

16 In having one gold stater she would have received only 10 mulis and
not 12,

17 One gold stater equalled 10 mulis in the 28th regnal year of king
Amgoka (no. 419). Nothing in the documents gives any reason to believe
that a change in the relative value of the two coins was ever made,

Google
88 Numismatic Data in the Niya Documents from Central Asia

light any coin of this name. We do not know whether muli was a
gold ot silver coin.

IV. Persian Coinage

A solitary document, no. 702, furnishes some interesting words
such as dhane, drakbma and sadera (clo...dbana 1, marica dbane,
3, Siigavera drakbma x, pipali drakhma 2, tvaca dhane 1, susmela
dbane 1, Sakara sadera 4) in connection with certain spices, sugar
etc, It-seems that these 3 denominations (weights? or coins), so
closely associated in one document, conveyed some special meaning.
Simple saderas (not the suvarna saderas of other documents) do not
seem to have denoted the’ Greek gold staters. It may well be argued
that the Central Asian scribe might have forgotten to write the
prefix suvarna here in no. 702 and simply wrote sadera in place of
suvarna sadera, But such was not the case (cf. no, 431 above) for a
queen, who demanded a suvarna sadera, received the very interesting
reply as “suvarna nasti” [ie. “The golden one is not with me”—was
the reply]. ‘This shows thae the scribe was very particular about the
prefix swvarna. He could never afford to miss the epithet suvarna. Pet-
haps the word suvarna was sufficient to denote a gold stater, The use
of suvarna ‘as.a prefix’ also lends support to the view that the Indians had
inteoduced the gold staters in Chinese Turkestan (Cf, F. W. Thomas,
JRAS, 1926, p. 507 f. 0. 15 Sten Konow, Acta Orientalia, VI, pp.
255-6) and pethaps found the Central Asian population already familiar
with the use of some staters other than those of gold. That might
have led them to differentiate between the two types of staters.!* The
simple sadera of no. 702 must have been referred to with some definite
intention.

The interpretation and identification of other terms (as dhane and
drakbma) of this document will also help us in determining the prob-
lem of the simple sadera, In fact no. 702 (as appears from its contents)

18 The reverse was the case in India where people knew no staters other
than those of gold. That is why the prefix suvarna is conspicuous by its
absence in Indian epigraphs and literature. Cf. my. article in JNSI, XV,

PP: 153°4-

Google
Numismatic Data in the Nija Documents from Central Asia 89

is simply a letter of information (about the birth of a male baby) sent
by a son to his father living at some distant place.'* The correspon-
dent apparently needed pepper, ginger, tvaca, small cardamums and
sugar at a time when his wife had given birth toa son. He wrote a
letter to his father requesting him to send these objects” through
a person named Ponigana” (no. 702 reverse). It is interesting to
find the value of each commodity marked againt the individual ivem,
Drs. Burrow (Trans. p. 142) and Bailey (BSOS., XIIf, p. 128; also in
a personel note quoted above) take dhane, sadera and drakbma as
weight'* — denominations. Since these objects were specifically required
to be sent through a bearer, we cannot agree with Dr. Bailey,” who
prefers to interpret the abve list (cf. mo, 702) as a medical prescription.
The correspondent would hardly have requested their supply in such a
negligible quantity.

Comparing dhene with N. Pers. dang or Arabic danag ot Pabl.
dang and originally N. Persian danake, Dr. Burrow (Language, p. 993
BSOS., Vil, p. 783) suggested that dhane was a debased from of
N. Pers, danaka™ for ¢ in the Kharostbi corresponds to -aka. As
regards dang, the Pablavi works show that it was a silver currency
closely associated with other coins of the same metal ive. 4 silver dangs
sr silver dirham and 4 silver dirbams=a1 silver stir22 Drakbma
of no. 702 can well be identified with Persian dirbam (CE. Mid, Pers.
drbm ot drabm, N. Pers. dirm—both asa coin and a weight, as

18a Perhaps in Loulan area,

19 CE. KL, Ill, p. 3513 Language, p. 99 for the views of F. W. Thomas,

20 Personal letter quoted in footnote 7 above.

a1 Ie is very likely, that dbanaka of the Narada, Brhaspati and Katyayana
Smrtis was also derived from N. Pers. danaka, For dbanaka in Indian litera.
ture see JNSI., Il, pp. x ff; D.R, Bhandarkar, Lectures on Ancient Indian Numis«
matics, 1921, Calcutta, p. 189; Pran Nath, A Study Economic Conditions of
Ancient India, London, p. 9° n. 1.

22 M.N. Dhalla, Zoroastrain Civilization, 1922, New York, p. 357-

23 The existence of the silver staters is well known both to the numisma-
tists (V. Head Barcley, Historia Namorum, 911, Oxford, pp. 507, 826 etc.) and
the ancient writers, In an Uigur Turki document, purchased by German
Expedition of 1902-3, Munich Academy, it is interesting to note the literary
reference of “6 satir of silver” (JRAS., 1926, p. 507).

2

Google
90 Numismatic Data in the Niya Documents from Central Asia

discussed in BSOS., XIII, pp. 128-9). Similarly sadera (no. 702 above)
can also be identified with Persian stir (CE, Mid. West. Iranian styr,
sater; IRAS, 1930, p. 7 and BSOS, Vill, p. 142). Thus che solitary
document no, 702 refers to the Persian coins only. It appears that the
cortespondent (who was Cuvalyina*t himself) referred to the Persian
coins perhaps owing to his Persian connections. Not only that he was
careful in avoiding references to all the coins other than those of Persia
—his native country.”* That was quite natural for even an Indian
who writes to his friend in U.K. or U.S.A. for books or com-
modities for his use, usually refers to the prices in Indian currency.
What wonder then that the son (che correspondent in no. 702), in
sending a note to his father (who was Guéura), evaluated the goods
the required’ in his native coinage? We do not know whether these
Persian coins were ever in circulation in the markets of Shan Shan
kingdom or not.

V. Muli Coins

Frequent handling of the muli coins, in matters of sale and
purchase, payment of hire** charges for animals, objects of debt and
loan* etc., is evident from a compatative study of vatious prices
in terms of mulis.

24 As is evident from his epithet. The Cuvalayines seem to have acted
as judges (CE. Language, p. go). His father was a Gutura which denoted
N. Pers. vazir (minister) or guzir as viewed in Language, p. 87. It is also
derived from vispura (Dr. Bailey's kind information in a personal note quoted
above).

25 CE. similar practice of a Greek named Vasu (Vasu Yonu) in no. 324
in referring to gold staters and drachmas. The correspondent (in no. 702)
even faild to mention the muli coin, which was perhaps equal to 2 silver
drachms (as 1 gold stater=20 silver drachms=10 mulis). On the other hand
he mentioned all the Persian silver coins not referred to anywhere else in the
documents under discussion,

26 3 Mulis [(no. 382) and 13 (mulis?) no, 505) as different hire charges
for a camel. Dr. Bailey (BSOS., XI, p. 795 f.n. 1) docs not find the muli
coins in no. 505.

27 A person (no. 393) owes a debt of 20 mulis. Cf, sramane giving out

Google
Numismatic Data in the Niya Documents from Central Asia 91

We cannot say whether muli was an indigenous currency, but it
appears to have ousted the gold staters from the markets of
Chinese Turkestan.** Gold staters were of course not suitable for the
purchase of ordinary commodities such as corns etc., for which it was
essential to have some popular currency with sufficient smaller denomi-
nations less than a gold stater. The documents never refer to any
coin of half or quarter gold stater denominations. In their place we
find numerous references to mulis in such numbers as 5, 10, 15, 20,
30, 40, 45 50, 100, 110, etc., though lower amounts such as 1, 2,
etc., are also mentioned. Reference to as many as 110 mulis etc.,
shows that these coins were even used in making payments upto 11
gold staters in value.*® Gold staters, which had not yet completely
disappeared from the market, were gradually loosing their utility in
every-day dealings.*® The position of the Indian silver coins (i.e. masas)
was far better (cf. 8000 misas as price of a camel with the Vato
mark in no, 661; 2800 masas in a monk’s possession in no, 500;
2500 miagas as property of a fugitive in no. 149). But even magas
were not frequently utilised while making everyday payments in the
markets of Chinese Turkestan. Only muli was a popular currency
of the time.

as many as 2800 mdsas to some person, perhaps as a loan (no. 500). According
to Manu (quoted by Bhandarkar, loc, cit. p. 186) 16 silver mases=1 silver
kirsapana, Both masa and kirsapena were current during the Kwan period
in India, We cannot agree with Dr. S, Konow who (Acta Orientalia XIV,
p. 237) interpreted masa as a “weight of gold” here,

28 Had there been any hatred against the foreign currency, it would have
been rather impossible for the people to deal in the misas as many as 8000 in
number at a time (n0, 661).

29 For 10 mulis=1 gold stater as deduced from no. 419 above,

30 Even the number of the gold staters spent for purchasing lands does not
exceed one gold stater (no. 419). ‘The existing documents never refer to more
than 2 gold steters at a time, A queen demanded one gold stater from a
person who failed to pay it (no. 431), Likewise a golden pot (2) discovered by
acertain person yielded oaly one gold steter (no. 43). This is sufficient to
show the dearth of gold staters at the time,

Google
92 Numismatic Data in the Niya Documents from Central Asia

VI. Prices in terms of Mulis

(2) Lands: —
Doc. no. Nature of land** Price in Mulis

587 Ciraimta land with a capacity to sow 7 khis

of sabini seeds. on one 10
222 Alri land and some other land requiring 5

khis of adini corn. we _ 10
579 Abriland with a capacity to sow 1 milima and

10 kbis of adini corn. oe we 12
582 25 Kuthalas in misi land (which was formerly

misi but later on fell akri). 1S

549 Land with a capacity to sow 1 milima and 10
kbis of corn.

495 Land with a capacity to 30 kbis of seed. 30
327 13 Kutbalas of misi land a 15
419 Assttip of land. a wR
57% Misi land (with a capacity to sow 3 milimas of

seed) and some trees. oo we 60

(6) Corns: —

In no, a10, we find that 5 mulis and 140 kbis of corn were equal
to 12 mulis, It means that 1 muli was worth 20 kbis of corn. Since
one milima’® was equal to 20 khis, x muli came to denote a unit of
value equivalent of 1 milima* of corn (cf. Trans; p. 39; Kl. Ill,
P» 363).

3t Different types of land are enumerated here. In those days land was
measured mainly from the point of view of the seeds it had the capacity to sow.
(ck, Language, p. 110). For different types of lands here consult my article in
Proceedings of the Gwalior Session of Indian History Congress, pp. 102-7 ; Cf.
Dr. Bailey in BSOS., 1953, pp. 538-40.

32 Kbi and milima were different standards of weights amd measures;
x milima=20 khis, Ct. my articles in JBRS., December, 1952 pp. 359 f&. and
Journal of the Oriental Institute, Baroda, 1V (2-3), pp. 205-17.

33. Price of a jackets 16 mulis and 15 kbis ol corn (no. 343), Dr. Burrow

(Trans. p. 39) thinks that 16 mulis here denote 16 milimas in terms of corn
values,
Numismatic Data in the Niya Documents from Central Asia 93

(©) Animals: —
Dee. no. Animals Price in mulis
327.1 Cow a 10

782 x Putgetsa female camel (BSOS, IX, p. 1203
Trans; p. 151),

woe 20

590 1 Aaklatsa camel. 30
592 » ES 30
589 1 Camel one year old. a 40
590 1 ~Viyala camel. wee 4°
437 -do- “42
571 1 Camel two years old, 50
495 1 Horse three years old. a 30
59° 1 Horse four years old. a ws 40
(@) Girls:

589 «Girl 4 dithis*® call. ws . 40
437. Gitl 5 ditbis call. a we 45
() Wine: —

571 Masu wine measuring 10 kbs... 10
587 6 kbis of wine and 10 kbis of corn. wae «TO
(8) Textile*-goods: —

327-1 Kojava (i.e. rug). 5
222 1 Kojava. 10
579 1 Carpet 13 cubits long. we 12
343-1 Kaftculika (= Jacket)! we 16 & 15 kbis

was sold for 8coo masas

apenas in Indian currency.

39 1 dithi ot tithim 1 span=g inches; CE, my articles in Journal of Bebar
Research Society, December 1952, pp. 495-6 etc as cited above, They have
been derived from Ske. disti used in a similar sense.

36 Cf. my paper on “A Study of Central Asian Textiles” read before the
All-India Oriental Conference held at Lucknow in November 1951 (Technical
Section ); Bharatiya Vidya, Bombay, XIV, pp. 75-94.

37 See note 33 above,

Google INIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
94 Numismatic Data in the Niya Documents from Central Asia

Doc. no,
592 Khotanese Kojava.* ws we 10
549 1 Khotanese-Kojave-alena. aw va 10

589 Khara'™* (some personal name or an 255). 15

VII. Indian Coins

(i) Reference to Indian silver coins (masas, cf. masa in no. 661
and maga in nos. 149, 500) has already been mentioned above.

(ii) A solitary reference to one rupye-bbana (no. 149) has also
been made along with 2500 masas. Both hese objects were
included in the property of a certain fugitive. Burrow (Trans,
p- 27) interpreted the former phrase as ‘‘one silver ornament”.
Te appeats that such an ornament (cf. bhana=bhinda (?)
Language, pp. 17, 09) was made of silver coins which
are referred to as riépya in the Sanskrit literature. Coins
as Kedira and Karsipana have been designated as ripya by Kasi-
hakara! According to the Amarakosa (as cited by Bhandarkar,
loc. cites ps 133) “ripya is stamped gold or silver”. It is now
easy to infer that rupya-bhane of our document was pethaps some
ornament of silver coins. Even now the villagers in modern India
use such ornaments (made of mint-rupees) for the necklaces. It is
not possible to say whether rupya-bbana of our document was

38 ite, one aibklatse, camel and 1 Khotanese kojava=1 girl 4 distis high,

We have seen above that an aiklatsa camel was worth 30 mulis while the girl

of this size was valued at 40 mulis. Hence 30 mulis and 1 Khotanese kojavs

4o mulis i.e. one Khotanese kojava perhaps valued at 10 mulis.

39 ie. One Khotanese Rojava-alena and 5 milimas of corn=15 mulis.

We have seen above that 1 milima of corn=1 muli, Hence one Khotanese

hojave-alena- 10 mulis.

392 CE, “6000 pieces of money” as the price of an ass as depicted in

an eighth century Chinese document from Dandanuiliq (see Ancient Kbotan,
p. 266).

go. Dr. Liiders Textilien im alten Turkestan, APAW., 1936, p. 22 note
1 as quoted by H. W, Bailey, BSOS, XI, p. 767) views that bbana corresponds

to Skt. bbanda ie. an alankara (=ornament).

41 CE abatam ripamasya, ripyo dinarah, ripyah kedarab, ripyam harsi-
potam of Kalikakara os quoted by Bhandarkar, fo. city p. 132,

Google
Numismatic Data in the Niya Documents from Central Asia 95

actually made of the silver arsapanas for the latter are nowhere
referred to in tht existing documents. The close association of
rupya-bbana with 2500 mésas (no, 149) appeats to be very
interesting. We have already stated (in note 27 above)
that one silver Rarsapana was equal to sixteen silver masas in
the Kusina period, There is no wonder then that 2 person
who was in the possession of 2500 silver masas could also afford
to have some ornament made of silver karsapanas"?,

VIII. Posara

From no. 382 we find that payments of hie charges for a camel
were made in shape of posara and mulis. We are also told that after
paying one posara, two mulis were left behind (ic, dita posara Sesa
muti a). The existing documents, of course, fail to throw any light on the
position of posara asacoin denomination. Dr. Burrow (Language,
p- 107) simply interprets the word posara as “some object”.

IX (Bhamma)ka or Nanaka

Sit A, Stein also discovered a small Kharogthi inscription on a
wall painting of an ancient shrine of Chinese Turkestan, Mr. Boyer
read the epigraph as Titasa esa ghali hastakrica (bbamma) ka 3. 100
(Serindia, 1921, Oxford, I, p.530). He has also furnished its transla-
tion which runs thus—This fresco is (che work) of Titus (= Tita)
who had received 300 bhamakas (For it)". A Stein (ibid)
identified the word Bhamaka with Sansktit Bharman. In his own
words” still the word in question, even if it should be read and
derived differently, must denote some monetary value”. In the
Sanskrit language, Bharman denotes ‘‘a coin” as well as “gold”
(Monier Williams, A Skt. Eng. Dictionary, 1899, Oxford, p. 748).

42° Such as ornament would not have cost him much, Even if he liked
to have one ornament of 10 or 15 kirsapartas, that would have amounted to an
expenditure of only 160 or 240 masas (exclusively for the necklace) plus some
extra expenses incurred on the cost of its preparation by the goldsmith. Our
documents specifically refer to the existence of the goldsmitis in Shan Shan
kingdom in those times. Suvarnakare of no. 578 and Skt. Suvarpakara (= golde
smith) are all identical terms.

Google
96 Numismatic Data in the Niya Documents from Central Asia

The preceding two letters bbs and ma ate not very distinct in this
epigraph. It may be conjectured that this ke-ending word might have
had nd and na preceding it. That would also make the sense clear i.e.
ninake. In fact Nanska coins have frequently been referred to in
the ancient Indian literature as eatly as the time of the Yajiavalkya
Smriti (consult JNSI, XII (ii), p. 198; Bhandarkar, op. cit., p. 1613
H.C. Raychaudhuti, Political History of Ancient India, sth edition,
Calcutta, fan. 4 of ps 475)»

This is in brief a shore account of the numismatic'data as depicted
in the Kbarosthi documents from Chinese Turkestan.? Central Asia
was indeed a meeting-ground of many cultures. Here, in the Niya
documents, we find three prominent foreign civilisations leaving their
imprints, ie. the Greek, che Persian‘ and the Indian, The extensive
use of the foreign coins ‘in the Shan Shan kingdom’ is a feature which
should not escape the eyes of a student of the history of human
civilization.

43 1 am obliged to Drs, A. L. Basham (School of Oriental and African
Studies, University of London) and H, W. Bailey (Queen's College, Cambridge)
for their kind suggestions and help in writing this article,

44 The question of the Persian coin denominations, in the existing Niya
Kbarogthi documents, has recently. been discussed by me in the Journal of the
Gairga Nath Jba Res. Institute, Allahabad, 1954, X, pp. 134-9.

Google
A Refutation of Solipsism

(Annotated translation of Samtanantarasiddbi)*
By
Hipenort Kiracawa
Realists: “Of course,** after all the previous observations, one
may reasonably infer [the existence of] one’s own mind-
cause? through the signifiers, that is, [the representations

of his own] bodily [actions] and speech. But one may
not say that those signifier-representations** which belong

to one samtina [—e.g. the samptina of a listener—] can
[in any way] signify [che existence of] another [samtina
—evg. the samtina of a speaker]. For, there is no con-
substantial causal relationship’® between the former and the
latter (S. 60).””

© Continued from previous issue,

66 Tb. ji-ga, Vinitadeva gives ‘ji ga shes-bya-ba hdis ni mi bzod-pa-
ston-par byed (The word ‘ji-ga’ shows the irritation of the Realists)’,

67 CE foot-note 23.

68 Tib. rnam-par rig-byed-du snai-babi ées-pa.
69  Tib. fie-bar len-pa dai fie-bar-len-palas byuii-ba, Skt. upidnopadeya.

In the systems of non-Buddhist philosophy, ‘upadina’ means material cause.
Buddhists who hold the view that everything is momentary, cannot accept the
concept of material ciuse as it is accepted in other systems. For Buddhists the
presence of a cause in the effect is impossible; when there is an effect, the cause
must be gone. Vinitadeva’s commentary on Siitra 63 gives a hint on this point.
Ie says that the word ‘upidana-kirana’ in the sitra is used in the sense of
‘asidhdrana-kicana’, i.e. the cause which cannot be shared with other samtanas,
Ie seems to me that the word ‘upadina-kirana’ in Sameininturasiddhi is used
for the preceding moments of psychological activities. in a samtina, against
their succeeding moments. In this translation I used ‘consubstantial cause’
for ‘upidana-karana’, Another statement of Vinitadeva in his commentary on
Stites 63 should be noticed. It runs as follows: Even the word ‘upadana~
karana’ is used in the siitea adopting the terminology of the opponents, namely
the Sauteintikas. According to oar terminology, ‘upadina-kirana’ is the
‘alayavijaaad’ ,

3

Google
98 ‘A Refutation of Solipsism

[To explain: Suppose A is listening to B. From the idealist point
of view, what A experiences is not B’s speech itself, but A’s own
representations which appear as B's speech. Let us call these
representations A,. The Realists are stating that it is not reasonable
to claim A, to be the signifier of the movement of B’s mind, because
Ag does not belong to B’s samtana and consequently no consubstantial
causal relationship is possible between Ag and the movement of B’s
mind. The Idealists reply:]

Idealists: “We do not mean that one cognizes [the existence
of another] mind-cause through [some of his own] repre-
sentations of another person's bodily actions and speech
‘on the basis [that these representations are] of the nature
of a signifier [consubstantially] caused by [that] other
petson’s mind (first part of S. 61).”

Realists: “Then, how [do you specify the relationship between
these representations and the movement of another mind] ?
(second part of S. 61)”

Idealists: ‘Because [these representations Ag are in some
particular way] the effects of she movement of another
mind (list pare of S. 61).”

[In other words, the Idealists agree with the Realists that there
is no consubstantial causal relationship between A, and the movement
of B’s mind, But still the Idealists insist that Ag is effected by the
movement of B’s mind in some particular way, and that therefore A
can infer the existence of B's mind through Ag. The Idealists have
yet to explain in what way the movement of B’s mind can be the
cause of Ag, and conversely, how Ay can be the signifier of the
movement of B's mind]

Idealists: [The necessary qualifications to be] a signifier [are
as follows :] 1) it must be the representations of the form
of either [bodily] actions or speech, 2) it must have been
produced from the samtdna of mind-cause [che existence of
which is to be proved] (S. 62). Although mind-cause is a
consubstantial cause only for the representations which are
of the form of one’s own bodily actions and speech, it is
an indirectly-regulating-cause (adhipatipratyaya) for [some

Google
A Refutation of Solipsiem 99
of] those. representations which belong to another samtina
S. 63).”

[Let us explain with the figure below. Here A,, B, ate
respectively the movements of A's and B’s minds. Ag is A's

t |A’s samtina B’s samtina
| Ay By
| t
£| Sia, 3
le h Elo
8 Sony Bg
5 eee, Fag
£ "eG Nog. A
Sey Ae
ey gE
=|
Ay [kh

representations of B's speech. Bg is B's representations of B's
speech. Although B, is a consubstantial cause only for Bg, it is an
inditectly-regulating-cause for Ag. So, A can infer the existence of
B, through A,.]

Idealists: “[Therefore,] for the sake of convenience," we call
those representations, which are caused[—directly or
indirectly—] by the consubstantial cause of a signifier, a
signifier; although [some of these representations] belong
to another samtana (S. 64).”

[The first ‘signifier’ in this sitra refers to By. ‘the consubstan-
tial cause of a signifier’, therefore, means B,. So, ‘those representations
which are caused—directly or indirectly—by the consubstantial cause
of a signifier’ refers to Ay and B,. Although Ag belongs to another
sameina than B’s, we call it, for the sake of convenience, a signifier of
By. Because A can prove the existence of B, by means of Ay on
the ground that there is an- indirectly-regulating:causal relationship
between them. The Idealists ‘explain their point of view more in
detail in the next. sitra.]

70 Tib, fie-bar dgags-pas, Ske. upacarat,

Google
100 ‘A Refutation of Solipsism

Tdealists: “Everyone experiences his own representations[— A
experiences only Ag, B experiences only Bg. But, for
example,] two eye-discased persons agree that there are
two moons [in the sky", Asa matter of fact, each of
these two eye-diseased persons is seeing his own represen-
tations of two moons. In other words, four moons are
represented in their mind, But they agree that there are
two moons in the sky because both of them are suffering
from the same eye-disease, The explanation, why A can
cognize B, through A, can be given] in the same way.
The cause of such consciousness [as A’s and B’s which
grasps ewo things A, and Bg as one entity, i.e. as B’s
speech,] is of the nature to have been born from the
subconscious residue (vasana)."® [Because of this nature
two things A, and By] are always’ grasped as one entity,
[ie. as B's speech]. Therefore, for the sake of con-
venience, we call both of the representations (Ay, By)
which are born from one cause (B) a signifier [of that
cause] (S. 65).”

[Here, the subconscious residue is the force of habit which we
have acquired through our past experiences. Since all of us have a
habit to grasp two different representations as one entity, A thinks
“I am listening to B” and B thinks “I am speaking to A” although
A experiences only Ay and B experiences only By.]

[The Realists confront the Idealists with another difficulty, i.e.
the problem of the validity of inference.]

Realists:

you say] you can know another mind by means of
such indicators" as the consciousness of [bodily] actions

71 Lit, transl: Just as [both of the] two eye-diseased persons see two
moons fin the sky] .....

72 Tib. bag-chags skye-bahi rai-bshin-gyis khyad-par. Nag-dbai-bstan
dac’s commentary is helpful to understand the syntax here, It gives ‘bagechags
goms-pa-las skye-bahi rait-bshin-gyi khyad-par’.

73 Lit. transl.: from the beginningless past onwards,

74 Tid. tags, Ske. liga. Here ‘rtngs’ is used as @ neutral cerm (cf,

Google -
‘A Refutation of Solipsism 101

and speech—the effects [of the movement of another
mind]. If this be sa, does [your] knowledge of another
mind refer to the other mind [itself] or not? If it does,
you are [implicitly] assuming the existence of an object
external [to. and independent of the cognizing subject,
and consequently you are no longer Idealists]"*. If [you
say that your knowledge] does not refer to [another mind
itself,] then how, with [such] knowledge, can you know
the existence of anocher mind? For, you cannot prove
[the existence of] another mind, unless you know the
independent nature" of that other mind (S.66).””
Idealists: [You cannot blame us for that, because] your
system embodies the same kind of fault” (5.67). You
say that a person cognizes another mind through [real -
bodily] actions and speech. Even though, if [his
knowledge of another mind] refers to the independent
nature of that atber mind, he must know even the specific
forms of it just ashe knows [those of] his own mind,
[OF course, this is impossible.] But if one cannot know

foot-note 15). Although it is the Realists who are speaking now, they are
restating the idealist method of inference here. Therefore, ‘raam-par rig-byed”
seems to be more fitted to this case than ‘ttags’. But the using of ‘rtags’
here may be excused on the following two counts: i) The word ‘rtags’ here is
expected to refer to the same word in Sitra 69, where it is used definitely as a
neutral term. It simply. means the medium of cognition regardless of whether
the medium is representations or entities. ii) Although ‘rtags’ is used here, the
‘text carefully gives ‘byaba la-sogs-par snai-bahi ram par ses-pa hbras-buhi
tags,.....(The indicator, ie, the consciousness which appear as the [bodily]
actions ate.—the effect [af the movement of mind]

75, Lit. transl: Does [your] knowledge (fr-pa ‘deedag) of another mind
born from the indicator, ive. from the consciousness which appear as the
[bodily] actions etc.—the effect [of the movement of mind] —take [another
mind itself] as its object or not? If it takes, [that which is cogaized by you]
is an object external [to and independent of the cognizing subject} (don-gshan).

76 Tib ito-bo Aid, Ske. svabhiva,

77 Lit. transl : This [faule] accompanies you too. {In this point both of
us have] the same [weakness],

Google
102 ‘A Refutation of Solipsism

these forms, how can {one claim that]. he grasps the
independent nature of that other mind? (S. 68).

[Notice that according to the Realists nothing can be clainted to
exist unless its independent nature is known. In other words, for the
Realists ‘existence’ is ‘the existence of something which is independent
of the cognizing subject’. But the Idealists—for whom everything is
tepresentations—do not want to make a distinction between that
which exists and that which does not exist on the basis that the former
is independent of the subject of cognition and the latter is not. The
distinction the Idealists are happy to make between them, therefore,
is that the former is the representations of specific forms and the
latter is the representations of that which is not specific forms. In
other words, the Idealists let ‘the representations of specific forms’ play
the part of ‘the independent nature’ of the Realists. But the Realists,
who do not understand the standpoint of the Idealists, answer in an
itrication.]

Realists: [What are you talking about? In so far as one cog-
nizes another, mind] through the medium of indicators"*
[and not by direct perception,] his cognition is [by nature
limicted to] a generality. [le is understood,] therefore,
[chat] one cannot cognize the specific forms [of another

through indicators] (S. 69).””

Idealists: {What do you mean by] the [word] ‘generality’?
Is it another mind itself,” of is it not another mind itselt,
or is it something which cannot be expressed by words?
(S. 70). IE [the generality] is not another mind itself,
or if [the generality] is something which cannot be
expressed by words, then what is grasped by this
[inference] is no doubt a generality, but-not the other
mind [itself]. How {can you say that] one can cognize
another mind itself by such an inference? (S. 71). Neither
for the generality to be another mind itself is possible.
For, if this be possible, as [I have] explained [to you

78 CE. foot-notes 15, 74.
79 Tib. gshan-gyi sems aiid,

Google
A Refutation of Solipsism 103

already,] there arises a cotingency that you can know even
the specific forms of another mind (S. 72). Therefore, by
no means can we cognize another mind itself through
inference (S. 73). [After all], inference cannot grasp the
independent nature of things. For, [if it did,] we would
make the mistake [of supposing that by inference] one can
cognize the same phenomena as by perception. [For
example, even in the case of the cognition of a fire through
inference one should be able to cognize specific colours,
heat, shape etc]. (S. 74).”

[Then, how can the inference of che existence of another mind be

valid]?

Idealists: “The validity of inference does not lie in the cognition
of the independent nature of things (S. 75); even though
[inference] does not grasp the independent nature of
things, it is valid in so far as [the results of the process of
inference] do not betray us when [the application of these
results is] limited to those objects which we pursise'?
[in our daily life] (S. 76). [lt is not only our idealist
type of inference but also your realist type of inference
which does not grasp the independent nature of things.]
Even [the knowledge of a fire on a remote hill, for
example,J which you have obtained by means of an
indicator—e.g. a cloud of smoke—does not refer to the
independent nature of the fire. For, [if it did,] there
would arise a contingency that there would be no distinc-
tion between [the object of] perception [and that of
inference. That isto say, whatever cannot be cognized
by perception cannot be cognized by inference; whatever
can be cognized by perception can also be cognized by
inference, Consequently,] by [the process of] inference
one could cognize neither past [nor future occurrences,] nor
unsubstantial occurrences. Also, you would have to admit
[that the fire cognized by inference would have the same]

80 Tib- miton-par lylod-pabi don, Skt. abhilasareha,

Google
104 ‘A Refutation of Solipsism

effects" [as the fire cognized by perception, that is, one
should feel, for example, hot when he cognizes a fire
through a cloud of smoke. Thus the validity even of the
realist type of inference cannot lie in the cognition of che
independent nature of things. The validity of inference,
whether of the idealist type or of the realist type, must,
therefore, lie in the fact that the results of the process of
inference do not betray us'*] (S. 77). [This theory of the

81 Tib. don-byed, Ske. arthakriya.

82 A brief explanation of Dharmakirti's concept of cognition will be
helpful to understand the meaning of this and the preceding sitras, In
Nyayabindu, a treatise on logic, Dharmakirti recognizes two classes of cognition
as valid: pratyaksa (=perceptive cognition) and anumina (=inferential
) (L, 25 1, 3). ‘OF these two classes of cognition, pratyaksa is the one
which is without judgment and without error’ (I,4). ‘The phrase ‘witho it
judginent’ is significant. This concept of pratyaksa can be traced back to
Diiinga (around A.D. 400-480), who established a new system of logic as
against the older systems. According to the older systems one’s cognition of a
fire, for example, by inferring that ‘there is a fire on the hill, because there is a
cloud of smoke’ was called anumina, and the cognition of a fire by direct
perception, ‘this is a fire’, was termed pratyaksi. The distinction between
pratyaksa and anumana was based on whether or not one cognizes a fire by
means of perception or by means of inference. But in either case the object of
one’s cognition could have been the same fire. Dianaga intcoduced the notion
that ever when one cognizes a fire by direct perception ‘this is a fire’, his
cognition is not of pure perception. What one gets through perception alone
are specific colours, heat, shape etc; the cognition ‘this is a fire’ is only
possible with che help of judgment. Difinaga’s use of the phrass ‘without
judgment’ shows that he expelled even the cognition ‘this is a fire’ from the
realm of the pratyaksa. The realm of the pratyaksa, having been strictly
limited, the distinction between it aad anumina becomes a distinction between
the objects of cognition, while in the older systems of logic it was a distinction
between the means of cognition. The object of the pratyaksa is specific colours,
heat, shape ete.—the particulars; the object of the anumina is a fire in general.
Being a follower of Dianaga, Dharmakirti states in his Nyayabindu, ‘The
object of the pratyaksa is particulars (I, 12),,..Only particulars are real (I, 14),...
That which is not the particulars is of the generality (I, 16),...These generali
ties are the object of anumina (I, 17)’. According to the systems of logic
before Dianiga, the cognition by perception was a pratyaksa and the cognit

Google iN
A Refutation of Solipsism 105

validity of the inferential cognition can be applied to] the
case when we cognize another person’s mind through i
ference. [In this case] t00, the inferential cog

ion never
betrays us, in so far as [we apply its results only] to those
objects which we pursue [in our daily life] (S. 78)" To
explain: first,] we cognize the existence of another living
being through the manifestations [of the movement of
mind, ic. his bodily actions and speech]. Then, we
perform a series of daily life activities [according to the
result of this cognition, that is, on the assumption that
there is another living being. For example, first, we ex-
perience the representations of a body moving or speaking
and infer chat there is another living being. Then,
according to the result of this inference, we greet him, in-
vite him, and entertain him. In face, thus performing daily
life activities on the assumption that there is another living
being,] we attain those objects which [we would expect]
the movement of another mind to have produced, [In
the case of the above example, his responses t2 our grect-
ing, invitation, and entertainment are the objects which we
attain] (8. 79).””

[But there remains a question: why the fact that the knowledge
obtained through inference does not betray us can be the ground for
the validity of inference? The answer offered by the Idealists is: ]

Idealists: “The world in which we live is nothing but [the
aggregate of] the results of the purposive movement of our
mind** and, therefore, is teleological." [This teleological

by inference was an anumina; the basic distinction was that of the means of
cogoition. But this distinction was loose and inaccurate, because in cither of
these two types of cognition such as ‘there is a fire on the hill, because there
is a cloud of smoke’ or ‘this is a fire’ both perception and inference are
involved, Dinaga redefined pratyaksa in such a way that the difference
between the pratyaksa and the anumana becomes a distinction between the
objects of cognition.

83 Vinitadeva gives ‘de shes-bya-bahi sgra ni don-byed pala byaho (The
wor ‘de’ [in the sitra] is used in the sense of the purposive movement [of
mind)’. 8 Tib. seme fin,

4 .
Google im
106

A Refutation of Solipsism

structure of the world] holds good even when we infer
[che existence of] another living being (S. 80). No one
can get satisfaction, [for instance, from the representations
of a fire,] until he experiences certain resulting represen-
tations which appear to him [as burning or boiling. This
shows that all of our bodily actions and speech, of which
the world consists, are the results of our desire. That is to
say, the world is teleological] (S. 81). Since we achieve
aims of our daily life through the use of the knowledge
acquired beforehand, the fact that something has been
done [according to some knowledge] is the proof of the
validity [of that knowledge. For, it satisfies the teleologi-
cal structure of the world] (S. 82).”

[Here again Dharmakirei attests the validity of the Idealists’

arguments concerning dreams.

Realists: “Don’t you agtee that even in the case of dreams
those representations which appear as resulting objects
occur from the preceding knowledge? [For example, the
representations of burning and cooking occur from the
preceding knowledge of a fire: If you agree with this,]
you may not rightly say that [certain] preceding knowledge
is valid simply because it enables one to pursue bis daily
life successfully. For, in the case of a dream all of our
knowledge is illusory (S. 83).”

Idealists: [Of course, the cognition in a dream is valid.]
Since we maintain®® that signifier-reptesentations never
occut without the support of the movement of minds, one
may infer [the existence of] other minds even on the basis
of cognition ina dream. We have already explained**
that [in dreams, our cognition being affected] by the
power of illusion, sometimes [representations] occur even
after a [considerable] lapse of time [from the moment when

85 Nag-dbai-bstan-dar gives ‘ied-kyi lugs dic’,
86 CE, Stitras 36, 51.

Google
87 Tib. debi ho
interprets this phrase differently, He gives ‘rmi-lam di

A Refutation of Solspsism 107

the actual movement of another petson’s mind took place;]
that although [the representations having thus occurred in
dreams] are not empty of the support of the movement of
another mind, there is a distinction between [the represen-
tations of the state of waking and those of the state of
dreaming—namely, in the former state of mind our repre-
sentations occur simultaneously with direct] perception
[while in the latter state mostly by] memories. [In either
case the signifier-representations never occur without the
support of the movement of another mind] (S. 84).
[To explain, che situation] in the case of dreams [is as
follows:] just as the preceding signifier-representations
[—e.g. the representations of someone’s bodily actions
and speech—,] being supported by the movement [of
another mind], occur through the medium of memories, so
do the representations which follow the signifier-repre-
sentations [—e.g. the representations of his responses to
our greetings, entertainment etc.]"" (5.85). [These
representations in dreams which follow the signifier-
representations] occur, through the medium of memories,
from nothing but the series of the psychological activities
which are preceded by the movement [of mind]—the
substratum of the signifier-representations (S. 86). Since
even in the state of dreaming, our inference [of the
existence of another person] never betrays us and can be
applied to daily life, [within the realm of dream,] exactly

in the same way as in the state of waking," no one can

ol-gyi gnas-skabs.na yod-pa-dag. Nag-dbai-bstan-dar
hog-rol-gyi_sad-pahi

gnas skebs-na yod-pa-dag (The representations (yod-pa-dag) in the waking
state [of mind] which follows [the state of] dreaming). But I don't think his
interpretation makes a good sense. Vinitadeva’s commentary does not contradict
with my interpretation; it does not paraphrase the phrase ‘deh! hog-rol-gyi
gnas skabsina_yod-pa-dag’ at all, Nag-dbai-bstan-dar’s interpretation of the
next siitra, which relies on his interpretation of this siitra, also does not make a

good sense.

88 Tib. ci-hdra-ba de-lta-bu.

Google JNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
108 A Refutation of Solipsism

point out [that the cognition in a dream is not valid
while the cognition in the state of waking is valid]
(S. 87).

[Nexe, the Realists raise the problem about the validity of the
perception of the yogi (one who practises meditation). In India ic is
generally taken for granted that the yogi is endowed with a kind of
supernatural perceptivity which enables him to perceive that which
ordinary men cannot perceive]."*

Realists: “All right;] we yield to you on the point that
although [chrough inference] one cannot grasp the indepen-
dent nature of another mind, (the cognition of the existence
of] another mind acquired by inference is valid because
it does not betray him [in so far as he limits its
application to daily life]. Still how do you explain [che
case of yogis] who [are known to] be able to know
another person’s mind by [direct] peiception? [Indeed],
if [the yogi] can know the independent nature of another
mind by [direct] perception, what he grasps should be
something external [to and independent of the cognizing
subject. However, as long as you are Idealists, you
should not allow the existence of anything which is
external to and independent of the mind. But,] if [you
say that], yogis cannot know the independent nature of
another mind, how can you maintain that by [direct] per-
ception yogis can know [another mind]? (5. 88) Neither-
can you defend yourselves by allowing [for an exceptional
case in which] perception does not grasp the independent
nature of things. For, such perception is invalid®® (5, 89)."”

Idealists : “*So long as the yogi does not attain the [full] stature
fof the Buddha] he is still unable to release himself

89 Nyayabindu I, 2 tells us that Dharmakirti believed in the supernatural
perceptivity of yogis,

90 Lit. transl: How is it possible that a perception does not grasp the
independent nature of things? [For] if it does not grasp [it.] how can [the
knowledge acquired by perception) be valid?

Google inv
A Refutation of Solipsism 109

completely from the tendency of making an erroneous
distinction of subject and object. Therefore, even if he
cognizes another person’s mind [by so-called yogic percep-
tion, the validity of his cognition] depends, [just like that
of inference,] on that it does not betray him in so far as
he limits {its application] to daily life. [For example,]
we see our body [and identifies that body with ourselves;
this is not the cognition of the independent nature of
ourselves, and yet this cognition is valid because it docs
not betray us]** (S. 90). By the power of meditation
the yogi can have such clear representations that they
appear [to him] almost like the specific forms of the mind
of another person. [This phenomena is] just like the real
deeam which one [sometimes] see by virtue of his past
deeds (karma) or by the grace of gods etc." (S. 91). So,
even in the yogi the representations, which refer to
another person’s mind [itself,] do not cccur. Ie is
definitely understood that even the yogi [does not know
another mind itself;] rather he cognizes the other mind
on the basis of his knowledge that [the representations]
which appear as his own mind has the same form as
another person's mind.” Therefore, [the so-called yogic

91 Lit, transl: Even if another mind is known by the yogis who have
not yet completely thrown away the erroneous distinction of subject and object,
[the validity of the knowledge acquired by them] depends on that it does not
betray them in daily life. [The reason why they have not yet completely
thrown away this distinction is that] because they have not yet attained the
[full] stature [of the Buddha. This is] just like [the case when] we see [our]
body (geugs, skt. rapa) [and identify it wich ourselves].

fag-dbai-bstan-dar gives another example. He says ‘When we see a pot
covered by a piece of blanket, we say that we see the body of the pot although
we are seeing [only] the blanket’.

92 CE. Sara 38.

93 Vinitadeva, gives ‘rnal’ bbyor-pa-rnams kyait rai-gi sems-snai-ba
gshan-gyi sems dai mampa mtshuit-pa kho-navlas gshan-gyi sems pane”
fiag-dbai-bstancdar gives rnal-hbyor-pa de-dag kyafi rafi-gi sems-kyi snaicba
Sat-ba dai roam-pa mtshuh pa kho-na-fid fes-pa las, gshan-gyi sems Ses pa

Google JNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
110 ‘A Refutation of Solipsism

perception is not the perception in its strict sense but] the
name given for the sake of convenience (S. 92). [We call
it] ‘perception’ because [the representations] which appear
[to the yogi] are so clear that they look almost like the
specific forms of another mind, [But in so far as the
yogic perception does not grasp the independent nature of
things,] its validity lies on the fact that it does not betray
him. [In fact, the yogic perception is a kind of clear
inference] (S. 93).”

[But the Realists may ask “How about the Buddha? Can he know
another mind itself or not? The Buddha is thoroughly free from the
tendency of making the distinction between subject and object, If
you believe that the Buddha can know another mind itself, you have
to admit the existence of a thing which is external to and independent
of the subject of cognition. But if you say he cannot, then even the
knowledge of the Buddha does not represent a thing as it is. Con-
sequently, you must admit that he is not omniscient.” For this, the
answer of the Idealists is: ]

Idealists: “The ultimate reality which is cognized by the
Buddha cannot be grasped by analytical chinking."* For,
in every respect, he is beyond [the realm of ordinary
men's] thought and words (S. 93).””

94 Lit, transl: The Buddha cognizes everything, [but this cognition of
his] cannot be grasped by analytical thinking.

Google
The Pancaratra Sect in Ancient Cambodia

By KaMaLeswar BHATTACHARYA, M.A,

The Paficardtea (or Bhagavata or Sitvata) cult “was in its
evolutionary stages in the centuries immediately preceding the
Christian era. The progress continued in the subsequent times,
and the Gupta period was marked by a great development of the creed,
when its tenets were systematized. It is in this period chat ic was
gradually transformed into Vaisnavism.”? The . identification of
Krsna-Vasudeva, originally one—second in order of precedence—
of the five heroes (Viras) of the Vrsni clan, worshipped by the Pafica-
Fitras, with the cosmic god Natiyana of the Bribmanas and the
Aditya-Visgu of the Vedas, was instrumental in that process.? It is
not, therefore, by sheer coincidence that che Paficaritra or Bhagavata
cult is found to have spread to Cambodia, precisely in that epoch and
under the same form.

Icis an inscription of Fu-nan, that of Prince Gunavarman®, dated
approximately the second half of the 5th century A.D., that consti-
tutes out first landmark. This inscription commemorates the erection
of a Visnupada, placing the donations to the sanctuary at the disposal
of the Bhigavata priests (viprair bhagavataib)

The next mention of the Bhagavatas in Cambodia is found in the
Basct Stele Inscr.‘ of Jayavarman I (c. middle of the 7th century
A.D,). Ie records the consecration of an image of Visnu under the
name of Acyuta, by one Dharmapala, said co be a Bhigavata. This
inscription is particularly interesting for its mention of the Paiicardtra
cule (paiicardtrarca), the five sactaments (paitcabbir yajfaib), the five

1 J.N. Banerjea, Presidential Address, Indian History Congress, Patna,
1946, Section I.

2 CEH.C.Raychaushuri, Materials for the study of the history of the
Vaignave Sect, Calcutta, 1936, p. 172 £.

3 G.Coedés, Deux inscriptions sanskrites du Fou-nan, BEFEO., XXXI,
p. aff

4G. Coedas, Inscriptions du Cambodge (IC), Il, pp. 193-5.

Google
112 The Pafcaritra Sect in Ancient Cambodia

diurnal rites (paricakala) and the five elements (paiicabban:ike), cerms
of technical import in the Paficaraera®,

That the Bhigavatas flourished during the reigns of Jayavarman IL
(802-850 A.D.) and Jayavatman Ill (850-877 A.D.), is proved by
an inscription of Prasat Kak P3*, which mentions a Bhagavata kavi as
having obtained the complete favour (ativallabbatapannab) of Jayavar-
man Il and having been the guru of his Visnuite son, Jayavarman IIL.

The same inscription also shows that Bhagavatism flourished during the
reign of Indravarman I (877-889 A.D.), for two religious foundations
ate ascribed to Amtagarbha, a descendant of the Bhagavata kavi men-
tioned above, and himself a Bhagavata. The second of these founda-
tions took place in 883 A.D.

During the reign of YaSovarman I (889-900 A.D.), the Paficari-
tras figure as one of the principal religious sects in Cambodia, along
with the Saivas, che Paupatas, and che Buddhists. An aframa called
Vaignavaécama was dedicated to them at Prasat Komnap, not far off
from the capital city of Angkor. The Saivas and the Pagupatas, on che
one hand, and the Buddhists on the other, had similarly their aSremas,
respectively at Prei Prasat and Tep Prana.’ Paficardtra, bbdgavata
and satvata, are evidently used, in the stele of foundation of the
VaisnavaScama, as different names. of the same sect, also designated by
the generic name of Vaisnave. One need not consider the three
terms as standing for three different sects as M. Coedés seems to do.*
The Prasat Komnap Inscription is important for a delineation of the
Vaisnava practices in the ninth century-Cambodia, especially when they
are placed side by side with their Sivaite and Buddhist counterparts as
depicted, respectively, in the Prei Prasat and Tep Pranam Inscriptions.
Strict chastity was enjoined on the Visnuite hermits. The Buddhists
of bad morals and ignorant were declared ineligible for dwelling in

5 CE FO. Schrader, Introduction to the Paicardtra, Madras, 1916,
pp. 76, 112.

6 G,Coedés et P, Dupont, Les Inscriptions du Prasat Kék Pé, BEFEO.,
XXXVII, p. 387 °

7 G. Coeds, A la recherche du Yagodbartgrama, BEFEO., XXXII,
p. 84ff.

8 See, on this point, Raychaudhuti, loc. cit., p. 22.

Google iN
The Paticaritra Sect in Ancient Cambodia 113

the hermitage. Similar remarks were not made regarding the
Sivaites,—a fact which leads M. Coedés to conclude that the latter
“seem to have held continence and knowledge less in esteem.” The
Sivaite and Buddhist hermits used to go out in quest of alms, but not,
perhaps, the Visnuites,

During the reign of Rajendravarman (944-961 A.D.), the Paficar’-
tras occupied an important place in Cambodia. In the Pre Rup
Stele Inscr. (961 A.D.),* the court poet referred to the fourfold emana-
tion (catur-vytba) of Visnu, the most distinctive feature of the
Paticaritra. Besides, the Kuk Sla Ket Insct'®, referred toa royal
wwersed in the Paficatitra, the quintessence of which lies in the
five diuenal rites’ (adbiti paficaritre... ..paficabnikapuiijite), and ‘obser-
ving the five kalas’ (paficakalavit).

In the catholic atmosphere of the reign of Jayavarman V
(968-roor A.D.), Bhagavatism flourished along with Saivism, the
official creed, as also Buddhism. The fourfold emanation is referred to
in an insctiption of Prasat Kk P6.!* According to the Prasat Tra-
pang Run Inscription’? the consecration of the king was performed by
a Sitvata priest, Paficagavya, who continued to be his dcérya. Indeed,
Jayavaeman V, though aa ardent Saiva, extended his patronage
to the Visquites as well as to the Buddhists, and seems rather to have
been an eclectic in his religious outlook. (His posthumous name was
Pacamavicaloka, apparently of Buddhist inspiration). A rapproche-
ment between Saivism and Vaisnavism is clearly reflected in the re-
cords of the reign. Thus, the Paicagavya, mentioned above, had a
son ‘profoundly versed in the Saiva doctrine’ (‘aivasiddbante-nisndtab)
but he performed the function of the consecrator (dbata) of an image
of Vigna, erected by his father. Narayana, the fervent
Vaignava, in the Prasat K6k Pé Inscription erects 2 Nandin and a Maha
kala (Siva) at the door of a sanctuary of Visqu. Visnuvara (Prthi-
vindrapandita), ‘the noble Bhagavata’ (Bhagevatarya), author of at

9 Coedés, IC, I, p. 77 & 105, v. 4. See infra.
10 Ibid., V, p. 119 ff,

11 Coedas et Dupont, loc, cit. p. 400 & 407, v. 1. See infra.
12 L, Finot, BEFEO., XXVIII, p. 58 ff,

Google
114 The Paticaratra Sect in Ancient Cambodia

least three Visnuite foundations during the reign, is described, in a
Banteay Srei Inscription’? as ‘a relation and spiritual friend” (samvandbi
dbarmavindbavab) of the Sivaite gurw of the king, Yajiiavariha. Ie
is, thus, somewhat curious to note that an inscription of the same
king should refuse the recognition of the Bhagavatas as a regular
religious order.*

The Prasat Kk Pé and Trapang Run Inscriptions, referred to
above, further show that Bhigavatism flourished during the reign of
Jayavicavatman (1002-1006 A.D.). In the latter of these two records,
the Satvata priest Paficagavya, whom we have already met during the
reign of Jayavarman V, is described as ‘the principal master’ (écarya-
purigavab) and ‘highly honoured counsellor (atimato mantri) of King
Jayaviravarman.

Saryavarman I (1002-1050 A.D.), the Buddhist king, also patro-
nized the Paficaritras, for an inscription, posterior in date, records
that a Paficaritra priest, KaviSvarapandita, was, during this reign, the
guru of the hermitages at Tivarapura (Banteay Srei), Sivapura (Phnom
Bayang), Séryaparvata (Phnom Chisor), and JalaigeSvara (Bos Preah
Nan), and later on became a guru and adviser (mantrin) of the King.”®
Ic is interesting, however, to note that the same person is stated to
have erected an image of Bhagavati and consecrated a liaga of Siva.

We have traced above, on the basis of the available data, a history
of the Paficaritra sect in ancient Cambodia. That history, evidently,
remains incomplete. But we should remember that the archaeological
exploration of Cambodia is “far from being accomplished” and that
“new inscriptions are coming forth every year from the soil of Ang
kor”.** Even a quantity of inscriptions, so far discovered, still remains
to be published. ‘New informations, thus, may be available in future,
to enable us to fill up the lacunae of our present-day documentation.

We have seen above how the essential elements of the Paficariera

13 Le temple d’Igvarapura, Mém. archéol, EFEO., 1, p 93, w. 2-3.
CE. Coedés, et Dupont, loc, cit., p. 393

14 Coedés, IC, Il, p. 67, I. 10-13 & u. 5.

15 Ibid., pp. 132, 133.
16 G,Cocdes, Les Etats bindonisés d'Indochine et d'Indonésie, Paris:
E, de Boccard, 1948, p. 9.

Google
The Paicaritra Sect in Ancient Cambodia 15

were known in Cambodia. Especially, we have found reference to
the fourfold emanation, the most significant feature of the doctrine.
Te would be useful to quote the verses in which that reference occurs,
for, as we shall notice presently, those show some considerable diver-
gence from the orthodox Paficaratra. Thus, the verse of the Pre Rup
Stele Inscription runs:

pire satvarajastamaskam api yo nityan nivistah pade

traigunyena caturvvidhena vividhabhivyaktir avirbhavan

viévakaradharo nirastasakalakaro pi dedipyate

vandantém bhagavantam adipurusan tam Vasudevam vibhum/ /

“To Him, who, in spite of having reached for eternity the supreme
world in the condition free from sattva, rajas and tamas, appeats (in
this world) under diverse manifestations, through the quadruple triad
of qualities, and who, in spite of having abandoned all forms, shines
in the form of the Omnipresent, to that god Vasudeva, primordial and
evernal purnga, let our homage be rendered”.
The Prasat Kak P6 Inscription has the following verse:
Nama$ caturbhujaydstu caturdha viskrtatmane
nisteaigunyagunayapi catustraigunyadhitine / /

“Homage to the god with four arms, who is manifested four
times,—to Him, who, in spite of having for quality the fact that He
is without the three gunas, possesses the quadruple triad of qualities.”

In the ewo verses quoted above, there is no doubt that the four
primary vyabas, or emanations of Visnu, are referred to. But the
manner in which this doctrine is expressed (traigunyena caturvidbena,
catustraigunyedbarine), is peculiar. Evidently, the Cambodian poets
conceived the four vyiibas to be endowed with the three natural qua-
lities of sattva, rajas and tame:

According to the Paificaritra, how-
ever, the six ideal gunas of jfdna, bala, aisvarya, virya, Sakti, and
tejas, make up the body of the first emanation, Vasudeva; while from
Vasudeva emanates Samkarsana; from Sambkarsana, Pradyumna, and
from Pradyumna, Aniruddha, each endowed with a couple of those
attributes, namely, jiiana and bala, aifvarya and virya, Sakti and tejas,
respectively. These six ideal gunas, as Schrader points out, ‘are
aprakrta, not belonging to Nature”—for Nature does not exist as

Google
116 The Paiicaritra Sect in Ancient Cambodia

yet—and have consequently nothing to do with the three well-known
Gunes (settve, rajas, tamas); that is to say, the old dogma that God
is necessarily “free from (the three) Gunas” {nirguna) does not exclude
His possessing the six ideal Gunas, which, on the contrary, must be
ascribed to Him, because without them there could be no Pure Creation,
and, all further evolution depending thereon, no creation at alle...
The six Gunas are the material, or instruments, as it were, of Pure
Creation, in their totality, and by pairs..." ‘The attribution of the
three natural gunas to the four emanations of Visnu, is, therefore, a
divergence that is worth considering. No further light on the ques-
tion can, however, be thrown in the present state of our knowledge.

One more point may be discussed in this connexion. Though
the concept of the fourfold emanation of Vignu was not unknown to
the Cambodian poets, there is yet no positive evidence to show that
the concept of the secondary emanations, giving rise to the twenty-four
miirtis,* played any part in that country,—a fact which remains in
spite of M. Dupont’s!® ingenious hypothesis of “an undifferentiated
sthinaka mirti of Visnu,” contributing to “distinct identifications of
detail, according to circumstances”.

17 Schrader, loc. cits p. 31 ff.

18 Cf, T. A. Gopinatha Rao, Elements of Hinds Iconograpby, Madras,
1914, vol. I, pt. 1, p. 227 &.

19 P. Dupont, Visnu mitrés de l'Indochine occidentale, BEFEO., XLI,
p-250ff, The existence of the triads (consisting of three undifferentiated
images of Visqu) at Prasat Damrei Krap and Prasat Rup Arak on the
Phnom Kulen, poses, indeed, as M. Dupont points out, an important problem
of religious interpretation, In the absence of epigraphy, it is hardly
possible to solve this problem satisfactorily. But to represent these triads
as standing for any of the triads of secondary emanation of Visnu, would
pethaps be going too far. For, whether the concept itself was known
in Cambodia is still doubtful, while, on the other hand, no similar represen-
tation exists even for the well-known fourfold primary emanation.

Go gle :
India, China and Tibet: 1885-86
By V. G. Kiernan

Tibet eighty years ago was still for geographers very much of ‘a
huge white blank” on the map.?- What the layman knew about it
amounted to little more than “total ignorance.”* Efforts had been
made since long before, with lengthy pauses in between, to penetrate
the mystery. In 1745 the Capuchin missionaries had been forced to
leave Lhasa. Near the close of the 18th century Warren Hastings had
ttied to establish political relations. In the late eighteen-forties Strachey,
Thomson and Hooker were exploring the western fringes, and Huc and
Gebet from the north-east reached Lhasa. No other European had
succeeded in reaching the ‘forbidden city’ at the end of the century,
though many had tried.? A good deal had been learnt about the
country, and this was an achievement mainly Indian : it was the work
of obscure travellers whose feats were among the greatest in the history
of exploration, the band of ‘pundits’ organised by the Indian Survey
department, Had they been Englishmen, an American said, they
would have been lionised and decorated for much less than what
they did; though it is true that theirs was secret service work
and much of it had to be kept under concealment at the time.
Their narratives, when published, showed thirteen journeys made
by them before 1880, beginning with that of Nain Singh in
1865-66, and eight more before 1892; several of them reached
Lhasa? Mostly they were men from the hills; a Bengali scholar

1 Capt H. Bower, Diary of « Journey across Tibet (1894), p- 1.

2 D.C. Boulger, Central Asian Questions (1885), p. 344-

3 “Tibet is probably the least known country in the world.” (A. Krausse,
China in Decay, revised ed. 1900, p. 15). See generally G. Sandberg, The Ex-
ploration of Tibet (1904), and Sit T. Holdich, Tibet, the Mysterious (1904);
onthe late 18th century period, S. Camman, Trade through the Himalayas:
the Early British Attempts to Open Tibet (1951).

4 W.W. Rockhill, The Land of the Lamas (1891), p. 289.

5 India Survey Records, Vol. 8, Explorations in Tibet and Neighbouring
Regions, 1865-1892; cp. Holdich, op. cit, Chs, X, XI.

Google
118 India, China and Tibet : 1885-86

the learned Sarat Chandra Das, was in some ways the most
distinguished among them. He got to Shigatze in 1879 and
Lhasa in 1881, and altogether his career may be said to form a
striking episode in the national awakening of modern Bengal.‘ By
the seventies European travellers, for whom secret entry was_much
harder than for the ‘pundits’, were feeling the magnetic lure again.
In 1875 when Halliday Macartney, a Scotsman who spent his life
in Chinese setvice, lost his post in the Nanking Arsenal, his first
thought was of going off in disguise in quest of Lhasa.’ W. Gill
tried in 1877 from the east, but like T. T. Cooper in 1868 only got
as far as Batang. Przhewalsky, the great Russian explorer, made his
first attempt, from the north-east, in 1872, and his second in 1876;
his biggest effore was in 1879, when his way was barred by the jealous
Tibetans at the frontier post of Napchu, and his last in 1884-85.*
In 1878-80 a Hungarian, Count Bela Szechenyi, had hopes of reaching
Lhasa, but was always turned back by the lamas and frontier guards.
A.D. Carey made his tour from the north, by way of Chinese
Turkestan, in 1885-87.”

Tibetan society and government were still more mysterious than
Tibetan geography. Much was written about the tyranny of a religion
“litele better than African fetishism” over a land of rich monasteries
huddled round with the wretched huts of peasants “soul and body the
slaves of the monks,""® Yet an authority on the Chinese empire could
describe the Tibetans asa humane, affable, contented race; an English
lady visitor, while deploting their ‘itredeemable ugliness”, praised
their “affection and jollity;"* Pundit Kishen Singh in 1880 found
them “uncommonly social and jovial,” picnicing all day in summer

6 See his Journey to Lhasa and Central Tibet (1902).

7 D.C, Boulger, Life of Sir Halliday Macartney (1908), p. 242.

8 See N. Prejevalsky (Przhewalsky), Mongolia, trans. E. D. Morgan (1876).
He felt at the time that “‘neither nature nor man stood in our way,” but only
shortage of supplies (pp. 222-3).

9 Sandberg, op. cits, p. 197 f.

10 Bower, op. cit.s pp. 13, 147.

11S. Wells Williams, The Middle Kingdom (1883), vol. I, pp. 247-8.

12 Isabella Bird (Mrs. Bishop), Among the Tibetans (1894), pp. 49s 92-

Google
India, China and Tibet : 1885-86 119

under the trees of Lhasa.’*

Such impressions fostered a widely held
view that ordinary Tibetans would be quite friendly to strangers if only
the despotic power of the lamas and their Chinese overlords were not

there to enforce the policy of isolation.

An orderly, if rude, administration held sway over western Tibet,
and had long been striving to bring the hill chiefs of che east under its
control." The theocracy of Lhasa had arisen as a counter-check to
the feudal power of the landowning nobles. It embodied national
unity, and enjoyed popular support; also, it had in the big monas-
teries more able-bodied men collected together than the secular lords
could muster,* Perhaps in order to conciliate the poor as well
as to obviate rivalries among the chief families, the Dalai Lama
was chosen, with much shrewd mystification, from a household of the
humblest sort, When this incarnate deity grew up he was regularly
poisoned by his ministers, the laymen among whom represented the
great families; though the Dalai Lama of the eatly eighties, a rosy-
cheeked little boy,!* was destined to a longer life. By the rgth century
an equilibrium between the two ruling forces had been reached. Big
lamaseries resembling “fortified camps” shared with the lords the
ownership of lands and serfs, and were “the de facto masters of the
country.”""% Some monks were very well off; many others were des-
perately poor,!* which as in Roman Catholic countries helped to keep
the Church close to the people. So did the fact that priests, unlike
laymen, could often rise from low beginnings to high rank.? A

13 India Survey Records, vol. 8, Part 2, p. 215 ff.

14 For a sketch of the administrative system see Holdich, op. cit
pp. 56-9.

15 This point is well brought out by King in his Introduction to Rin Chen
Lha Mo, We Thibetans (1926). Cp. Sir C. Bell, Portrait of the Dalai Lama
(1946), p. 5: “The Tibetan nobility of central Tibet—together with some of
the higher priesthood—are the leaders of Tibet."*

16 Sarat Chandra Das, op. cit., pp. 166-8,

17 Rockhill, op. cit., pp. 215-6.

18 Ekai Kawaguchi, Three Years in Tibet (1909), pp: 325-6.

19 Bell, op. cit., p. 181.

Google
120 India, China and Tibet : 1885-86

special class of wartior-monks performed the functions of a standing
army.2°

‘About 1950 a great deal was being written in the West about
what was called the violation of Tibet’s independence by China, In
the rgth century no one in the West questioned the fact that Tibet
‘belonged’ to China," though exactly in what manner ot degree was
often a puzzle, Western notions had grown up within a system of
equal States and their dependencies; in che Far Eastern world of which
China was the ‘Middle Kingdom’ there had been only one gteat Power
amid a swarm of planetoids. Tibet stood on roughly the same foot-
ing as a Native State in British India, and was under much closer

supervision than Burma, or Siam, or Annam when these were still
satellites of China. It had been brought under Peking’s control in
the early 18th century, when the Ch’ing Dynasty was at its height.
From 1792, when a Chinese army helped to defend Tibet against
Nepal, a complete exclusion of all other foreigners was in force.
“Tibet had become an integral part of the Chinese Empite.”*? China
was thus provided with an immense natural fortress to guard her
western limits; also with a fresh means of influencing her Buddhist
subjects in Mongolia, for the Bogdo Lama of Urga stood third in the
Tibetan hierarchy. Periodical missions went from Lhasa to Peking
to renew homage to the Son of Heaven, At Lhasa was stationed a
Chinese Resident, the Amban or Ampa, whose function was the
mainly negative one of keeping things as they were, Periodically he
made a military inspection of the frontier.*2 He took a very high

20 Kawaguchi, op. cit,, p. 292 &. describes these warriors.

at Seeeg. SirR. Temple, India in 1880 (1880), p. 420; cp. W. W.
Rockhill, Diary of 4 Journey through Mongolia and Tibet in 1891 and 1892
(1894), p. 324: “Whenever China sees the necessity of doing so, it can effec-
tually assert its supremacy in Tibet, for it is absurd to say that China is not the
sovereign power there.,.,””

22 Camman, op. cit , p. 149-

23 See eg. a copy of a Memorial from the Resident, enclosed with Sir H.
Parkes, Minister at Peking, to Lord Granville, Foreign Secretary, no 28, 4 Feb.,
1884, F.0. 17 (China) vol, 948, Public Record Office. Antother Resident was
stationed at Shigatze.

Google : 4
India, China and Tibet : 1885-86 . 121

tone, and treated the Tibetans more arbitrarily, according to
Younghusband, than Englishmen of that age treated Indians.* Not
even a Regent was allowed a chair in his presence, and he and his
officials looked on the people as barbarians. They had rights of
purveyance, whose abuse at times led to trouble.”* ;

Resenting the policy of exclusion, British India was inclined to
notice the worse sides of Chinese rule, and this prejudice may have
coloured the reports of the ‘pundits’. “The political relations between
Tibet and China”, wrote Sarat Chandra Das, “are now so. intimate
that the Imperial Residency established at Lhasa in the first quarter
of the last century has converted Tibet from a protected state into a
dependency of China....The Ambans ate the terror of the Tibetans,
who abhor them from the depths of their hearts.”#* He likewise
accused the Chinese of fomenting Tibet's xenophobia in order to
strengthen their own hands." But China kept few troops in Tibet,*®
and the Tibetans showed'in 1904 that they were not afraid to fight
for their rights. If Tibet served China as a rampart, Chinese
suzerainty served Tibet as a protection to her extraordinarily artificial
polity against subversion from outside. It was a kind of partnership,
though an unsentimental one. In 1900 when foreign armies were
at the gates of Peking, prayers were offered for China in every temple
in Tibet”

An English writer once proposed to annex Tibet, on the ground
that its valleys would make it an excellent sanatorium for officers
serving in India.%® Younghusband, the spokesman of the British
invading force of 1904, asserted that Britain had aimed at nothing
more from first to last chan “ordinary neighbourly intercourse”, and
even blamed her for having been churlishly backward in doing so:

24 Sic F, Younghusband, India and Tibet (1910), p. 321.

25 S.C. Das, op. cits pp. 50-2; ep. Rockhill, The Land of the Lamas,
PP: 53-4.

26 S.C. Das, op. city p. 178; ep. Rockhill, Diary of a Journey. ., p. 237.

27 S.C. Das, op. cit., p. 181; ep. Kawaguchi, op, cit p. 405.

28 Only 4,500 men in all, according to Holdich (op. cit. p, 56).

29 Kawaguchi, op. cit.s p. 296.

30 A. Little, Gleanings from Fifty Years in China (1910), p, 97.

6

Google Inv oF MICHIGAN
122 India, China and Tibet : 1885-86

instead of coiling up in frigid isolation, we should expand ourselves
to make and keep friendships.”** Leaving aside these merely freakish
utterances, one can see two main lines of British interest, strategic
and commercial.

Ideas of the strategic importance of Tiber were already helping to
invest Lhasa, that dull dirty town, with fictitious romance. Fear of
Russian penetration of India through Afghanistan had long been
chronic. The second Afghan War began in 1878, the Pendjeh
ctisis came in the spring of 1885. By then the north-eastern as well
as the north-western frontier was beginning to feel insecure. In 1874
a treaty had been made with Yakub Beg, the Amir of Kashgharia or
Eastern Turkestan, partly as a move against Russia; soon afterwards
China reconquered this lost province of hers, but it seemed that she
was taking very little care to keep out Russian influence. In Turkestan
Britain had lost the game; Tibet was still a no-man’sland between
her empire and Russia's. Przhewalsky’s explorations were known to
have official Russian backing.*® Suspicion was to grow until by the
end of the century it could be seriously argued that Tibet was more
of a danger-point than Afghanistan, and that Russian armies might
soon be pouring through its passes into India;°* while many held at
least that Russian influence at Lhasa would unsettle the whole
Himalayan frontier region.*¢

Commercial interest showed itself as early as 1850, when Lord
Dalhousie began building from Simla what a traveller who used it
called “The cut bridle-path, which has been dignified by the name
of ‘The Great Hindusthan and Tibet Road’.”** Intended to tap the
trade of western Tibet, it was soon brought to a hale by lack of funds ;
in 1869 the India Office was of opinion that it might usefully be com-

3% Younghusband, op. cit., p. vii-

32 Ateference of Jan. 1879 in a Russian newspaper to a new expedition
by Przhewalsky is reproduced in Parliamentary Papers, 1880, vol. LXXVIII,
‘Central Asia, no. I’, pp. 19-20.

33 Sandberg, op. cit. pp. 8-9.

34 E.g L.A. Waddell, Lhasa and its Mysteries (1905), p. 42; cp. Py
Landon, Lhasa (1905), vol. I, Ch. 2.

35 A, Wilson, The Abode of Snow (1875), p. 99-

Google
India, China and Tibet : 1885-86 123

pleted.** In the seventies there were glowing hopes in England
of a big trade with Eastern Turkestan ; disappointed in that quarter,
in the next decade these hopes were transferred to Tibet. The country
was known to produce wool, gold, borax, and other minerals. Gold
was a very tempting baie, especially because of the world shortage chen
prevailing. One theory made the country “enormously rich” in ic*,
and there was an idea thae this was the true reason why the Chinese
were so anxious to keep foreigners out.’* One ‘pundit’ in 1877
brought back discouraging accounts, but later there was talk of “rich
gold-fields” newly discovered.*® Part of the truth may have been that
Tibet received a good deal of gold from Mongolia in religious offerings,
and was therefore able to buy more than she sold." More tangible
than her gold-mines were her locks and herds. Sit Clements Markham
in 1875 compared Tibet with Peru, and talked of illimitable resources
in wool and live-stock.t? D.C, Boulger in 1883 wrote that for India
to be able to exchange her tea against Tibetan wool would in some
ways “revolutionise” her whole balance of trade and her deplorable
finances.® A traveller of 1891, commenting on a Tibetan wool-
caravan that he passed neat Leh, wrote : “The wool trade between
Tibet and India is now considerable, and Englishmen who have taken

36 Sce Parl. Papers, 1864, vol. XLII, ‘Report on the Trade of Central
Asia’ by R. H. Davies, p. 27; 1868-69, vol. XLVI, ‘Eastern Turkestan’,
pp. 57-8.

37 Sandberg, op. cit. p. 14; cp. T. Thomson, Western Himalaya and Tibet
(1852), p. 166: Borax from Tibet “was at one time the principal source of
supply of the European market.”

38 Holdich, op. cit., pp. 329-313 cp. L. A. Waddell, Among the Himalayas
(1899), p. viii,

39 Wilson, op. cit. p, 183 ff

40H. Trotter, Account of a journey by Nain Singh, in J. R. Geog, Soc.
1877, vol. XLVII, p. 104; E. D. Morgan, in Geographical Journal, 1893 (N.S.)
vol. II, p. 459.

41 Kawaguchi, op. cit., p. 456. The same point is made by H. Forman,
Through Forbidden Tibet (1936), p. 97-

42 Preface to his edition of the Narratives of Bogle and Manning (and.
“ed. 1879), p, cxx.

43 Central Asian Questions, p. 345

Google iverne
124 India, China and Tibet : 1835-86

up this enterprise at Darjeeling are making large profits.” Indian
exports to Tibet were worth 4 lakhs in 1890-91, and 11% in 1902-
03. Rupees had for some time been becoming the chief currency
over much of Tibet, though coin of any sort was very scatce.‘*

China’s trade with Tibet had to be reckoned with as a_com|
Many lamas traded and the Dalai himself drove «no small trade” with
the Chinese.” At Tachienlu in south-west China Rockhill was told
that one or two hundred yak-loads of goods lefe there daily for Tibet.‘*
Hosie of the China Consular Service compiled in 1884 an itinerary of
the route from Chengtu in Szechuan to Shigatze ot Tashilumpo** ;
and next year his colleague Bourne drew up a report on this trade
route, based on information from Mge. Biet, Vicar Apostolic of Tibet
(the Roman Catholic missionaries had succeeded in getting only as far
as Batang).!* An entertaining account was obtained of a trading

venture by a Chinese lama between Shigatze and Bhutan. He cleared
300% net profit on the double trip, with a caravan of 17 Chinese
and 5 Nepalis, though unluckily he was robbed of it all on the way
home by brigands. “Foreign goods are much more used in Tibet
than in China”, was the conclusion drawn from this narrative. Tibet
was far che less self-sufficing of the two, and might therefore, though
poorer, prove the better market, It was a great market above all for
tea, At present it was supplied with a rough and ready product
from western China ; and there were indications that the Chinese

44 E.F. Knight, Where Three Empires Meet (1895), p. 159.

45 Parl. Papers, 1904, vol. LXVII, ‘Tibet (Trade Statistics).

46 Rockhill, The Land of the Lamas, p. 208; S. C. Das, op. cit., p. 46.

47 S.C. Rijobare, With the Tibetans in Tent and Temple (1901), p. 133-
AsR.S, Gundry pointed out (China and ber Neighbours, 1893, p. 341), the
lamas’ commercial as well as theological interests made them want to exclude
forcign competition, Cp. E. Candler, The Unveiling of Lhasa (1905), p. 246,

48 Op. cit., p. 248; ep. Holdich, op. cit., p. 327 f.

49 Enclosed with Parkes to Granville, no. 76, 4 Ap., 1884, F. O. 17. 849.

50 Enclosed with N. O'Conor (Acting Chargé d'affaires at Peking, March
1885 to July 1886) to Granville, no. 208 Confidential, 3 May, 1885, F. O.
17, 980. .

51 O'Conor to Granville, no. 442, 29 Oct, 1885, F.O. 17, 985.

Google
India, China and Tibet : 1885-86 125

were resolved to keep Indian competition out of their profitable
monopoly.**

In the period 1875-85, and indeed until close to the end of the
century, while the Indian Government showed a good deal of interest
in Tibet, it also showed a good deal of caution, Forebodings about
Russian infiltration were not yet too lively ; it was realised that Lhasa,
down in the southern corner of Tibet, was much further away from
Russian than from Indian territory. As to commercial motives, these
had not yet quite so much sway over official counsels as they were
to acquire before many years. H.H. Risley was expounding an
orthodox official view when he argued that it would be folly to force
Tibet open at the risk of offending China and of enraging the
Tibetans, In England, he remarked, Tibet was being loudly advertised
as a great prospective market for her manufactures as well as for India’s
tea, and as a country so rich in gold that it might “contribute to the
currency problem by flooding the world with fresh supplies of gold.”
But all this was highly speculative, and he commended the Indian
Government for “putting on the drag” instead of moving as rashly as
fortune-hunters in England would have liked it to."

Still, pressure was building up; and in 1873 the first of a series
of tentative efforts to open relations with Tibet was made. In that
year J. W. Edgar, Deputy Commissioner at Darjeeling, was told to
visit Sikkim and the frontier, with a view to making contacts with
the Tibetans and getting trade facilities. He only succeeded in
meeting a Tibetan frontier official of the Chumbi valley.* Soon
afterwards the Calcutta Chamber of Commerce asked for a further
approach to be made.** An opportunity arose in September 1876,
when a grave dispute between Britain and China ended in China
having to submit to the terms of the Chefu Convention, A ‘Separate

52. S.C. Das, op. cit., p.7284.

53 Gazetteer of Sikkim (1894), pp. xi-xii.

54 Waddell, Lhasa and its Mysteries, p. 45; H, H. Risley, Gazetteer of
Sikkim, p. v; Gundry, op. cit., pp. 400-1.

55 Wilson, op. cit., pp. 222-3. The Bengal Government took up the idea;
it regarded Chinese policy as the only obstacle (Younghusband, op, cit, pp.42-3)-

Google
126 India, China and Tibet : 1885-86

Article’ in this treaty gave Britain the right to send an exploring
mission to Tibet from China, or an embassy from India, In the
latter case the Resident at Lhasa would be instructed, ‘with due regard
to the circumstances”, to assist it.®* A writer in England hailed this
with enthusiasm as pethaps “the most valuable concession we have
ever obtained at the hands of the Chinese”, and urged that it should
be taken advantage of promptly. “The Tibetans,” he wrote, “possess
great virtues, and, so far as we know, few vices”, and through Tibet
it would be possible to develop trade with western China also.**

Nothing was done at the time, because the Convention was held
up by difficulties over the opium trade and was not ratified until May
1886. Meanwhile there was a return to the idea of a mote limited,
local move, in the form of an approach to the ‘Tashi Lama’: that is,
the Panchen Rinpoche, whose stronghold was the Tashilumpo monas-
tery near Shigatze, and who was the traditional rival of the Dalai
Lama, It was Tashilumpo, not Lhasa, that Warren Hastings had got
in touch with a hundred years: before, Boyle went there in 1774.
Sarat Chandra Das had no difficulty in getting there in 1879 and
lacer years, for the local chief Minister was a sort of ‘westerniser’ in
his politics, and gave his visitor no worse embarrassment than a hint
that che ‘Tashi Lama’ would like to be presented with an elephant.
“Ic is pleasing”, Sarat Chandra wrote, ‘to notice some signs of inde-
pendence in the youthful Tashi”, who was disliked at Lhasa both by
the Tibetan Ministers and by the Amban.®* Though this promising
young man unluckily died in 1882, Tashilumpo remained compara-
tively accessible, and it had the advantage of being nearer than Lhasa,
a mere hundred miles as the crow flies from the Sikkim frontier. The
Bengal Government spent its summers at Darjeeling, where it easily
acquired an interest in Tibetan affairs. Such an interest was developed
especially by Colman Macaulay, the energetic Finance Secretary. It

56 Text of the Convention in Parl, Papers, 1886, vol, LXXIII, ‘China, no.
3° (C. 4735).

57 D,C.Boulger, ‘China via Tiber’, in J. R. Asiatic Soc., vol. X (N. S.),
Part 1, Dec. 1877, pp. 114-5

58 Op. cit., pp. 100, 126, 181.

Google V i
India, China and Tibet : 1885-86 127

was he who in 1883 primed Urgyen Gyatso, the ‘pundit’ who made
his way as far as Lhasa that year, with political instructions.** Late
in 1884 Macaulay was commissioned to visit the frontier; there he
met Tibetan officials and exchanged friendly leteers with Tashilumpo,*®
and grew so excited about the whole thing that he romanticised his
tour into a ballad poem.

Te was now felt to be time to make Tashilumpo an offer of regular
commercial relations, But those who believed that the Tibetans
would be perfectly friendly if only the Chinese allowed them, argued
that “No progress can be made until negotiations have been opened
at Peking”, and that “‘conciliatory but firm and persistent” representa-
tions must be made there." In any case the Indian authorities could
scarcely take further steps in Tibet without getting some kind of
authorisation from China. In January 1885, accordingly, Sit Harry
Parkes, Minister at Peking, was notified of the plan, He saw no
objection to it, except that he doubted whether Tashilumpo would
agrec.*? When he brought the matter up in March with che Tsungli
Yamen, or Board of foreign affairs, he found the first reaction to be
one of shrinking, if not of hostility, and Prince Ching, President of
the Board, made haste to emphasise chat Tibet was ‘‘an integral part of
the Chinese Empire.”* This came at the end of a conversation on
Korea, a satellite kingdom which China had lately agreed under
pressure to throw open to forcign political and commercial intercourse,
only to see the country immediately embroiled in the deadly rivalries
of the Powers, China moreover was just emerging from her undeclared
war with the French, who had been seizing Tonking. It was not a
moment when she could be expected to feel much desire for further
Western contacts.

Parkes died on March 23, and his Secretary of Legation O’Conor,
who was lefe as acting chargé d'affaires, pointed out to London that an

59 Sandberg, op, cit. p. 186 fF.

6a Waddell, Among the Himalayas (1899), p. 150.

61 Loc. city pp. xxiii, cxxi.

62 Parkes to Granville, no. 32, 24 Jan., 1885, F. O. 17, 977+

63 Parkes to Granville, no. 112 Conf., 20 Mar., 1885. F. O. 17. 979.

Google
128 India, China and Tibet : 1885-86

agreement with Tashilumpo, even if it could be got, would be
inadequate, for the whole country was under the jurisdiction of Lhasa;
he suggested therefore that the Separate Article of the Chefu Conven-
tion should be brought into play." A change of Government had
taken place in England: the Conservatives were now in power, with
Lord Randolph Churchill as Secretary for India—the best man who
ever had the India Office”, Younghusband thought: “the man who
without any faltering hesitation annexed Burma, to the lasting benefit
of the Burmese, of ourselves, and of humanity.” Younghusband also
says that Churchill was fired with enthusiasm for Tibet by Colman
Macaulay."* Wich his support the original scheme was broadened, on
the lines suggested by O’Conor, into a plan for a formal embassy from
India to Lhasa. In India Macaulay's superiors may not have shared
all his eagerness for the experiment, The Viceroy was a new man,
having only arrived in December 1884; and Sir Alfred Lyall, at chat
time a member of his Council and later his biographer, says that the
whole project was “imposed upon Lord Dufferin by instructions from
England, where it was believed that a profitable trade might be opened
with Tibec.**

In August O'Conor was informed that Macaulay was coming to
Peking himself to apply for the necessary passports, and was told co
give him every support." In Occober the enthusiast arrived. He
had with him Sarat Chandra Das, who was to accompany him to
Lhasa, and who stayed ata lamasery frequented by Tibetan travellers
and made the acquaintance of Rockhill, the American diplomat to
whom Tibet was a lite hobby.**” Naturally, from the Tibetan point
of view the secret operations of the ‘pundits’ were neither more nor less
than spying, and Sarat Chandra had made himself particularly che
object of their ever-ready suspicions. These were not without reason,

64 O'Conor to Granville, no. 208 Conf, 3 May, 1885, F. O. 17, 980.
65 Younghusband, op, cit., p. 46.
66 Sic A. Lyall, The Life of the Marquis of Dufferin and Ava (1905),
vol. Il, p. 132,
67 Salisbury to O'Conor, tel. no, 44 Secret, 7 Aug., 1885, F. O. 17, 987.
68 Rockhill, Introduction to S. C. Das, op. cit. p. viii

Google
India, China and Tibet : 1885-86 149

for che heavy antiquarian stuff published by him at the time was far
from representing the true purport of his journeys.** His acquaintances
in. Tibet were to be subjected before long to severe persecution.
Evidently the lamas knew by now of the plan to send a Mission, and a
heap of petitions against it had been sent to Peking by both the Tibe-
tan and the Chinese authorities. So O'Conor was told by the powerful
Li Hung-chang, Viceroy of the metropolitan province, who was unim-
pressed by Macaulay’s letter of recommendation from the Chinese
Minister in London, and who at first declared that foreign trade with
Tibet was an impossibility. O'Conor tackled the Tsungli Yamen,
taking his stand on the Chefu agreement, and had a stiff three-hour
argument.’ Li proved to be personally in favour of the opening of
Tibet; it was he who had taken the lead in the opening of Korea.
Probably wih some urging from him, the Yamen gradually gave way,
though it insisted that the business of the Mission must be purely
secular: any religious propaganda would put the Tibetans in a
frenzy." Before the end of October it consented to furnish passports
and send instructions to the Resident, who would receive the Mission
in person on its atrival."* By mid-November this had been done, the
Yamen had been badgered into expressing approval of trade between
Tibet and India, and Macaulay was free to go back and make his
preparations. O’Conor was still expecting trouble, which could only
be overcome by “unswerving perseverance,” and he promised to keep
dinning into the Yamen’s head that the Mission would not leave Tibet
until it got what it wanted ; this was a favourable moment and should
not be let slip, of Tibet might remain locked up for years to come. He
also thought it important not to let other countries know what was

69  Sce ‘Contributions on the Religion, History, etc. of Tibet’, in J. Asiatic
Soc. of Bengal, vol, 50 (1881), Pare I, p. x87 ff, and vol. 51 (1882), Part I.

70 Bell, Tibet Past and Present, p. 59; Portrait of the Dalai Lama, p. 51;
Kawaguchi, op. clt.. pp. 17-9, 225. The report of the Chinese lama’s journey
was sent to the Intelligence Dept, of the War Office (F. O, to W. O., 21 Jan.,
1886, F. O. 17, 1060).

71 O'Conor to Salisbury, no. 432 Conf, 16 Oct., 1885, F,O. 17, 985.

72 Ibid,, no, 443 Conf,, 16 Oct, 1885, F. O, 17, 985.

73 Ibid, no, 444, 29 Oct. 1885, F, O. 17, 985,

7
Google
130 India, China and Tibet : 1885-86

afoot, for fear they might all begin harassing China with similar
“requests.” This warning he telegraphed to the Foreign Office; too
Tate, for the project had already got into the Press." His despatches
were duly forwarded to India," and the Foreign Office conveyed its
thanks through him to the Chinese Government.” He was recommend-
ed to be circumspect in choosing occasions for pressing the Yamen about
Tibetan trade, for fear of the Mission’s success being ptejudiced.”*

O'Conor sent Warry, one of his interpreters, co Calcutta to assist
Macaulay's party! Uneasiness was soon being felt however about
the appointment of a new Chinese Resident at Lhasa. The transfer of
the present official, Sé-leng-o, to a similar post at Urga in Mongolia
was gazetted at the end of December; his successor was to be Wén-
sho, a Manchu, at present Sub-chancellor of the Grand Secretatiat.
O'Conor informed the Viceroy of India of this news, observing that it
might furnish che Lhasa authorities with pretexts for delay. On
February 25 Lord Dufferin telegraphed to ask O’Conor whether he
could get “special instructions” issued to the new Resident in favour
of the Mission. O’Conor replied that he thought it would be unwise
to raise the question, since the Chinese might then propose a post-
ponement of the Mission until the new Resident had had time to pick
up the threads, and Wén-sho was not likely even to statt from Peking
for another three months; on the other hand there might be some
advantage in this, since it would give the Mission “a good excuse to
prolong their residence, of at all events that of some of its members,
in Tibet, and to familiarise che Tibetans with their friendly inten-
tions and commercial aims.”**

74 O'Conor to Salisbury, no, 455 Conf,, 16 Nov,, 1885, F.O. 17, 986.

73 Ibid. tel, no. 66 cypher, 14 Nov., 1885, F, O, 17, 987, and minute
on this; ep, his no, 439 Conf, 24 Oct , 1885, F, O, 17, 985,

76 Ibid., n0. 18 Conf,, 20 Jan., 1886, F, O. 17, 1060.

77 Ibid., no, 13, 18 Jan., 1886, F. 0. 17, 1060.

78 Ibid., no. 29 Conf., 25 Jan., 1886, F. 0. 17, 1060,

79 1.0, to F,O., 3 Feb,, 1886, and Salisbury to O'Conot, no. 40, 10 Feb.
1886, F, O, 17, 1061.

80 O'Conor to Salisbury, no, 67, 28 Feb, 1886, and enclosed correspon
dence with Dufferin, F, O. 17, 1061.

Google
India, China and Tibet : 1885-86 131

‘A more serious complication was by now coming in sight. During
1885 relations between the Indian Government and King Theebaw of
Mandalay had been deteriorating, and on New Year's Day 1886 the
annexation of Upper Burma was proclaimed. Burma was, nominally
at least, one of the many client States of the Chinese Empire; and
slight as the ties were between Peking and Mandalay, the Chinese
attached a good deal of prestige-value to them and felt that Britain
hhad treated them unceremoniously. They could retaliate in a number
of ways; they might even encourage guerrilla resistance in the border
districts, as they had done when the French occupied Tonking, and
they could be unfriendly about the much hoped for trade through
Burma into south-west China. Their itritation was also likely to show
itself over Tibet, which they might naturally fear would one day go
the same way as Burma if foreigners were allowed any footing there
at all; and they would wish to make it perfectly clear that their posie
tion at Lhasa was far more solid than it had been at Mandalay. Before
the end of March Sir Robert Hart, the Englishman who was China’s
Inspector-General of Customs and had just declined the post of British
Minister at Peking in succession to Parkes in order to remain in
Chinese service, wrote privately to Sir Julian Pauncefote, Permanent
Under-Secretary at the Foreign Office: “The Burmah episode will
probably interfere with the cartying through of what was intended
to be done in Tibet and Central Asia; the Chinese will be more
likely co make difficulties for, chan to facilitate, the arrangements
Mr. Macaulay and others were to make."*!

Both in Calcutta and in London, where the Liberal Party had
returned to office early in February with a conscience pethaps a little
disturbed about the seizure of Burma, there was awareness of the

danger of antagonising China, Discussions were soon started with
the Marquis Tseng, Chinese Minister in London, who was then
awaiting the arrival of his successor Liu Jui-fen, with the object of
finding some concession or face-saving formula by way of recognition
of China’s old rights in Burma, “I have frequently expressed my

81 Hare to Pauncefote, priv., 28 Mar,, 1886, F.O. 17.1062. The reference
to ‘Central Asia’ concerns E, Turkestan,

Google
132 India, China and Tibet : 1885-86

strong conviction,” the Viceroy cabled on March 3, ‘that it is ab-
solutely necessary, for many reasons, to obtain the cordial acquiescence
of China in che settlement of the Burmah question.” He was willing
to make appreciable concessions if China could thereby be satisfied and
“facilities for prosecuting our Tiber mission” ensured.*? Two of
three weeks later, when reporting the arrangements being made for the
Mission (he meant to spend two and a half lakhs on it, and to send
six European and five Indian officers), he added: “But, unless we can
come to a satisfactory understanding with China in regard to Burmah,
it might be desirable to postpone action in Tibet. It is also a ques-
tion for the F. O. to consider whether it would be wise or unwise to
press the two questions at once.”” Oa this the India Office consulted
the Foreign Office, and both agreed, since the Chinese Legation still
seemed friendly, that there was no need for the Tibetan plan to be
altered.**

It soon proved that this was too optimistic a view. In April the
London negotiations about Burma came to a standstill Early in
May the Tsungli Yamen told O’Conor that it wanted to have time to
discuss the problem with Tseng on his return."® On May 6 Tseng
called at the Foreign Office to take leave, and to exchange the long-
delayed ratifications of che Chefu Convention of September 1876.
He was quite effusively received by Lord Rosebery, the new Foreign
Secretary. After a number of compliments, Rosebery wrote of this
interview, “1 added that of this I was quite sure,—speaking not
merely in my own name, but on a wider ground,—that whatever

82 Lord Dufferin to Lord Randolph Churchill, tel. Secret, 3 Mar., 1886,
copy in correspondence forwarded in 1,0, to F.O.,§ Mar, 1885, F. 0.
17, 1062,

83 1.0. to F.O,, Immediate, 24 Mar., 1886, enclosing Dufferin’s tel. of 22
Mar., 1886, and F.O. to 1.O., Immed, and Conf,, 25 Mar., 1885, F.0. 17, 1062.

84 Tseng to Lord Rosebery (Foreign Seccetary), 12 Ap. 1886, F.O.
17, 1062, Tseng Chi-tse was the son and heie of the celebrated Tseng Kuo-fan;

in 1879 he had replaced Kuo Sung-tao, the first resident Chinese Minister
abroad, as envoy to London and Paris. See article by Tu Lien-che in A. W.
Hummel, Eminent Chinese of the Ch'ing Dynasty (1943).

85 O'Conor to Rosebery, tel. no, 20 cyph,, 3 May, 1886, F.0. 17, 1062,

Google 7
India, China and Tibet : 1885-86 133

Govt. existed in this country, of whatever patty, it would always keep
close friendship with China as one of its main objects abroad.”8* It is
a pity chat not all Foreign Secretaries in the seventy years since then
have kept in mind this excellent maxim.

Tc would have suited the Tsungli Yamen better if Macaulay had
been content to enter Tibet unobtrusively, under. its auspices, from
the Chinese side.*® Not only was he going to make his entry from
India instead, but he was to be at the head of at least as imposing an
embassy as the one that Sir Douglas Forsyth had led to Kashghar in
1873. It was to include a stcong scientific team, and the Marquis
of Lorne, giving his presidential address to the Royal Geogtaphical
Society, referred to the high hopes entertained of it by the learned
world.'* Press rumours that were afloat about its proposed escort of
soldiers made it look more like an invading army than an embassy.
These rumours spread to the newspapers in China, and also it appears
reached Tibet. On May g Li Hung-chang told O’Conor that the
Tibetans were alarmed, and would like the eszort’s size to be reduced.'®
“His Excellency Li Hungchang”, O’Conor wrote to London, “is I
think sincerely desirous to support us in this matter, and though he
foresees difficulties in persuading the Tibetans to accede to the open-
ing of trade with India, he does not seem to think that the Mission
will incur any personal risk.’"** Nevertheless, Li had had a visit
lately from “an influential Hutukew”, ot lama, about to return home
from Peking, and this same man had told O'Conor that the Mission
was widely known of and bitterly disliked in Tibet. Li had tried to
calm this lama’s fears, and urged him to use his influence in favour
of trading rights being granted to merchants from India in specified
towns; but he himself thoughe a small escort of ten men ot so would
be more suitable, and he told O'Conor that Viceroy Ting of Szechuan
Province, ‘under whose special direction Tibet is placed”, was
seriously disturbed because the fate of Burma made him fear some

86 Rosebery to O'Conor, no. 120 A, 6 May, 1886, F.0. 17, 1062.

87 D.C. Boulger, Life of Sir Halliday Macartney, p. 425,
88 Proc. R. Geog, Soc., vol. VIII, 1886, p. 425.

89 O'Conor to Rosebery, tel. no. 24 cyph, 30 May, 1886, F.0. 17, 1073.
9° O'Conor to Rosebery, no. 154, 11 May, 1886, F.O. 17. 1063,

Google
134 India, China and Tibet : 1885-86

fresh act of British aggression, and had actually sent troops forward
into Tibet. O'Conor begged Li “to reassure Ting Pao Chun of the
eminently pacific and commercial objects of the Mission.”**

He conveyed this information to Lord Dufferin, and in reply was
told that the escort was to consist only of 58 sepoys to guard tents
and baggage, and 14 mounted men, under four officers.’ In London
also the Press rumours had caused some misgivings; the Viceroy was
asked by telegraph whether there might not be difficulties over
supplies, and was cautioned to “instruct Macaulay to take every possi-
ble care before Mission actually crosses frontier to ascertain whether
it will meet with friendly reception.” He replied that every precaution
was being taken, and that the strength of the escort was very ‘“mode-
rate’.°2 O’Conor gave Li Hung-chang these details about the escort,
and Li expressed satisfaction and told the Tsungli Yamen that che
Viceroy of Szechuan ought to be warned to prevent any interference
with the Mission. But the Tsungli Yamen, instead of taking Li’s
advice, sent a very discouraging Note to the British Legation. A
letter had just been received, the Ministers wrote, from the Resident
at Lhasa, who had been notified of the Mission and asked whether
the Tibetans could be persuaded to accept it; and the Resident now
reported that all attempts to persuade them had failed—they said they
would fight to the death sooner than allow the British to set foot in
the country—and that in consequence the Mission ought to be put
off. Macaulay had been told in October, the Ministers went on, that
a report from Lhasa should be awaited before he made any start; and
in view of the report now to hand they urged very strongly that the
Mission should be put off.**

gt O'Conor to Dufferin, tel. and despatch Conf, 11 May, 1886, enclosed
with above. Ting Pao chén, Viceroy of Szechuan from 1874 until his death
in 1886, had a reputation for ability and honesty. (See Hummel, op. cit.)

g2 Dufferin to O’Conor, tel. 15 May, 1886, with O°Conor to Rosebery,
no. 164, 16 May, 1886, F.O. 17, 1062.

93 LO. to F.O. 28 May, 1886, with telegrams to and from the Viceroy
of 26 and 27 May, F.O, 17, 1063. Gundry (op. cit., pp. 342-3) supports the
view that the Mission and its escort were planned on far too grandiose a scale.

94 O'Conor to Roscbery, tel. no. 24 cyph., 30 May, 1886, and no. 177,

Google ' oF MICHIGAN
India, China and Tibet : 1885-86 138

A. suspicion was before long expressed in England that Peking,
having given Macaulay its sanction, had “sent immediately secret
orders to Tibet to obstruct the mission.”** In reality there was nothing
artificial about the hostile feeling in Tibet. And for the Chinese
Government the position was awkward enough.’ Its authority over
Lhasa, though real, rested on use and wont, and any effort to impose
on the Tibetans something new and unpalatable might lead to defiance,
which in turn would enable foreigners to argue that the Chinese
suzerainty was meaningless, O’Conor on the afternoon of May 31

had a long discussion with Prince Ch’ing and five other Ministers of
the Yamen, «I have no doube”, he reported, “from the language of
His Highness and Their Excellencies that the hostility shown in Tibet
towards the Mission has seriously alarmed the Chinese Government.”
They repeated their view that, under the agreement made with Macau-
lay, the Mission was not to start until the Resident at Lhasa thought
the time was ripe for it. O'Conor denied this, maintaining that the
agreement was only for the Resident to have time to be consulted, and
ight months had now gone by. As to. postponement, he did not see
how he “could possibly lay their request before Her Majesty's Govern-
ment in its present form. The moment was most inopportune. The
Chefoo Convention was on the eve of being ratified, and Her Majesty’s
Government might justifiably receive with extreme surprise at this
moment a request to forego one of the distinct provisions of that Con-
vention.” China, he continued, had not been very accommodating
over Burma, and now she was becoming obstructive about Tibet, a
matter in which she had been shown every consideration and consulted
atevery step. Prince Ch’ing replied that he welcomed and reciproca-
ted Britain’s friendly sentiments: the trouble was that the Tibetans
were so mistrustful. They dreaded in the first place a possible in-
terference with their religion. “Second, with the recent example of
Burmah before them, they feared that 2 similar fate would eventually
befall their country if they entered into commercial relations with a

30 May, 1886, enclosing Note from Tsungli Yamen of 29 May, 1886, F.O.
17, 1063.
95 Waddell, Among the Himalayas, p. 151.

Google
136 India, China and Tubet : 1885-86

European Power.” © If the Mission went, Prince Ch'ing feared that it

would be attacked: in that case Britain would be drawn into reprisals,
and China would necessarily resent this, “Tibet was a portion of
China —not a tributary be it understood”, so that armed action by
Britain against Tibet might well upset the friendship beeween Britain
and China, and render the Burmese difficulty even more intractable.
China was most anxious to avoid this, and if Britain would agree to
postpone the Mission she would willingly make concessions over Burma
—still mote so if Britain would “cancel the Tibetan Mission Clause
of the Chefoo Convention” altogether. O'Conor, an intelligent
diplomat, at once pounced on this idea, which was to lead eventually
to the settlement of the problem, He suggested, unofficially, the
outline of a possible compromise along these lines, which the Ministers
promised to consider carefully. He arranged to meet them again on
June 4, and in the meantime to cable to his Government for its
approval. He also agreed, under pressure, to send a telegram privately
to India and hine at the advisability of delay”*,

The Foreign Office approved with some modifications O’Concr’s
drafe terms.°? It may have recollected that Tibet and Burma were
‘both Buddhist countries, and neighbours, so that what Prince Ch’ing
had said about Tibetan reactions to the fate of Burma might very well
be true. The Viceroy, to whom also O’Conor sent a copy of his prow
posals, cabled to London: “I would not hesitate a. moment in
sacrificing Tibet mission for settlement." Wich che India Office’s
concurrence O’Conot was informed on June 3 that his draft would be
accepted if he could get the desired modifications with respect to
Burma.® Next day he met the Tsungli Yamen as arranged, and

96 O'Conor to Rosebery, tel, no. 25 cyph. and no, 178 Extender, 31
May, 1886, and no. 184, 1 June, 1886, giving a fuller accaunt of the interviews
also tel. no, 26 cyph,, 1 June, 1886, giving the terms he was proposing;
F.O. 17, 1063,

97 FO. tol

98 10.0 F0.,
1886, F.O. 17, 1063,

99 LO, to F.0, 3 June, 1886, and Rosebery to O'Conor, tel, no. 28, 3 June,
1886, F.0, 17, 1063.

., Immed, and Conf, 1 June, 1886, F.0. 17, 1063.
1 June, 1886, enclosing tel. Secret from Viceroy, 1 June,

Google NiVERSIE
India, China and Tibet : 1885-86 137

Prince Ch’ing told him that the draft terms had been laid before
the Empress. (This was the redoubtable Tz'u-hsi, all-powerful in
China for many years and since 1881 sole Regent for the boy Emperor
Kuang-hsii.) The Prince went on to assert that his Government had
displayed, in the matter of Burma, ‘‘a remarkable spirit of forbearance.””
Lord Rosebery’s emendations were then discussed, and some of them
agreed to. With respect to Tibet the question now arose of whether
the Mission should be merely postponed, or abandoned fot good.
The point of view of the Chinese was that they would gain lite by
making concessions over Burma if Britain were left free to bring
up her Tibetan scheme again at the end of a couple of years. They
desired therefore a special clause cancelling the Separate Article
of Chefu. “The Chinese Government”, O’Conor cabled to London,
“insist on this as an absolute condition to the Burmah agreement.'"*
Next day he cabled: “Feeling about Burmah has increased. I do
not think I can get better terms.i® He wrote at the same time
that although he had been reluctant to ask Lord Rosebery to think
of cancelling che Chefu Article, still the hostility in Tibet was clearly
so strong that a Mission if sent was likely to fail in its object of
opening up trade: and once it had been sent, Britain's treaty rights
would be at an end.t®#

Lord Kimberley at the India Office saw no objection to any
arrangement about Tibet so long as it did not debaz Britain per-
manently from reopening the question of trade.’®* At the Foreign
Office it was held that Britain could not cancel pare of an agreement
that had only just been ratified, and chat China should be content
with an assurance chat no use would be made of it “at present.’*
O’Conor cabled back on June 6 that the phrase “at present” did not
go far enough, and begged to be allowed some further latitude.?®*

100 O'Conor to Rosebery, tel. no. 28 cyph., 4 June, 1886, and no. 188,
5 June, 1886, with emended draft terms, F.O, 17, 1063.

ror Ibid., tel, no. 29 cyph., 5 June, 1886, F.O. 17, 1063,

102 Ibid., no. 189 Very Conf., 5 June, 1886, F.O. 17, 1063.

103 Minute by Lord Kimberley on O’Conor tel. no. 28.

104 Rosebery to O’Conor, tel. no. 30, 5 June, 1886, F.O. 17, 1063.

105 Ibid.,, tel. no. 30 cyph., 6 June, 1886, F.O, 17, 1063.

Google
138 India, China and Tibet : 1885-86

He was authorised to declare that no mission would be sent “without
fresh reference” to China.®* On the afternoon of the gth he had
another long discussion with the Yamen, and urged that Macaulay
and his party could not be kept waiting indefinitely while an
agreement was sought. It was clear that the whole question had
been considered by the Empress and her Council; and the Yamen was
still insisting, along with various points about Burma, on complete
renunciation of Britain's right to send a mission to Tibet2°” Li sent
O’Conor, confidentially, a copy of a petition dated February 18 that
had come in from Tibet. How genuine it was O’Conor could not
decide, but it protested bitcerly against the Mission and denounced
the wickedness of the British at great length, winding up with the
cry: “IE His Majesty would set in motion his mighty army and
advance in earnest to attack them, could he fail to annibilate them
utterly?” Thirty-eight seals, including those of many monasteries, were
attached to the document.?®*

Sit John Walsham reached Peking at this moment, as successor
to Sir Harty Parkes, but the complicated negotiation concerning
Burma and Tibet was left in the experienced hands of O’Conor. On
June 16 Rosebery gave matters a new turn by declaring that he could
only surrender the Chefu right if China made herself responsible for
opening Tibet to British trade.” On the 18th O'Conor had a fresh
wrangle with the Yamen."* In India, where Macaulay was impatiently
waiting to start from Darjeeling, it was felt necessary to decide without
more delay whether he was to go ot not; Macaulay himself stil
fancied that all was perfectly tranquil in Tibet.!" On the 2gth, when

106 Ibid., tel. no. 31 cyph., 7 June, 1886, F.O. 17, 1063.

107 Ibid., tel. no. 31 cyph., no. 194 extender, and no. 195; 9 June,
1886, F,0. 17, 1063.

108 Copy with O’Conor to Rosebery, no. 196 Conf., 10 June, 1886,
FO. 17, 1063.

109 Rosebery to Walsham, tel. no. 34, 16 June, 1886, F.O. 17, 1063.

110 Walsham to Rosebery, no, 208, extending tel. no. 34, 19 June, 1886,
FO. 17, 1063. .

111 LO. to F,O., 18 June, 1886, enclosing tel, of 17 June from Viceroy,
FO, 17, 1063.

Google
India, China and Tibet : 1885-86 139

O’Conor saw the Ministers of the Yamen once more, disagreements
about Burma were narrowed down."™* After a hasty reference to the
India Office the Foreign Office’ decided to accept what China now
offered as regards Burma, and as regards Article IV on Tibet to agree
to postpone the Mission for two years: if at the end of that time
trade facilities had been arranged for Britain by China, the Chefu
tight would be renounced. Even now some hard bargaining re-
mained to be got through. Discussing this fresh offer with the Yamen
on July 4, O’Conot paved the way by emphasising that Britain had
no desite to create difficulties for China in Tibet: trade was her
only object, and an embassy was of no interest to her in itself, so that
it was open to China to settle things by using her own authority to
make foreign trade possible. He was met with the retort chat Britain
was asking China to accept a permanent settlement over Burma in
return for a merely temporary concession over Tibet, He dwele again
on the point that there was nothing abnormal about a proposal to
trade: the Yamen had often declared that it had no objection to trade
between India and Tibet, and the Tibetans themselves, whatever fears
they might have for their religion, were keen enough to come as far
as Calcutta buying and selling. Present needs might be met by the
opening of some town near the border as a trade mart. O’Conor then
put forward a different wording of Article IV, including Rosebery’s
offer that no mission should be sent to Tibet “without fresh reference”
to the Chinese Government, and omitting mention of any fixed period
such as two years. His hearers seemed likely to accept this,
he thought; they promised to call on him with their answer
on July 7 after consulting the Empress, and he wound up the
long discussion—which had ranged over the Burmese problem as
well—by urging them, with a touch of Irish impudence, ‘to meet
me half way, and to show something of the same conciliatory
spirit and bon vowloir of which I had given so many proofs.”

112 Walsham to Rosebery, tel, no. 37 cyph, 15 June, 1886, F.O.
17, 1063.

113 F.0. to LO., Conf. and Immed., 25 June, 1886, and Rosebery to
Walsham, tel. no, 37, 29 June, 1886, F.0. 17, 1063,

Google
140 India, China and Tibet : 1885-86

They assured him they were equally anxious for an amicable
arrangement,'!*

Walsham felt that “a distinct gain” had been made; the Chinese
were dropping one of their Burma claims and seemed to have taken
the British attitude over Tibet “in far better pare than there was any
reason to suppose they would.” Article IV had been chopped and
changed a good deal since it left Lord Rosebery, but no better could
be expected, and in Walsham’s opinion much was due to “the ability
and admirable tact shown by Mr. O’Conor in his mode of conducting
these negotiations." At 3 p. m. on the 7th four Ministers of the
Yamen called on O’Conor, bringing with them a draft that had been
approved in the Council. Most of it was acceptable; but the conten-
tious Article IV had undergone a further transformation, The
Chinese were now advancing an elaborate formula, according to which
they would do their best to get trade admitted into Tibet, but were
not to be held to blame if their efforts failed. O’Conor expressed
regret, and tried to secure a less vague form of words; by dint of long
argument he did obtain some verbal changes, but the Ministers
contended that what they were now offering was of more value to
Britain than the Chefu clause, and that they had now reached the
extreme limit of concessions—if he asked for anything more ‘the
negotiations must necessarily break down.’”***

This was the end of O'’Conor’s tribulations, though on the gth
two Ministers came to see him about a small point of phraseology,
which he was able to settle with the help of the two Oriental
Secretaries of the Legation, Hillier and Bullock.'*? On the previous
day the Foreign Office had cabled its acceptance of the latest Chinese
drafe, and authorised Walsham and O’Conor to sign it.** Walsham

114 Walsham to Rosebery, tel. no 39, 4 July, 1886, and no. 214, 5 July,
1886, enclosing memo by O’Conor, F.O. 17, 1064.

115 Ibid., no. 214.

116 Walsham to Rosebery, tel. no. 40 cyph., and no, 2178 enclosing
memo by O'Conor; 8 July, 1886, F.O. 17, 1064.

117 Ibid., no. 225, 10 July, 1886, and enclosed memo by O'Conor,
F.O. 17, 1064.

118 Rosebery to Walsham, tel, no. 39 cyph., 8 July, 1886, F.O. 17, 1064.

Google
India, China and Tibet : 1885-86 14t

generously protested that it would be ‘most painful” to him to seem
to be claiming any share of the credit due to his colleague, and begged
that, though it was a little irregular, the latter might be allowed to
sign alone. Rosebery consented;!"* O'Conor was also rewarded
this same month with the C. B, On the 12th he informed the Tsungli
Yamen of his Goverament’s acceptance, and was told that an auspicious
day would be chosen for the signing. On July 24 the Convention
was signed by O’Conor, Prince Ch’ing, and another Yamen member

named Sun Yii-wen,'?°

So far as Burma was concerned the Convention was a definite
success for Britain, whose only concession was the continuance of
decennial missions from Burma to Peking ‘to present articles of local
produce.” As regards Tibet it was equally a success for China, for
the final wording of Article [V—essentially of Chinese formulation—
committed her to little or nothing. Ie states that in return for Britain's
giving up her Mission “it will be the duty of the Chinese Govern-
ment, after careful enquity into the circumstances, to adopt measures
to exhort and encourage the people with a view to the promotion and
development of trade. Should it be practicable, the Chinese Govern-
ment shall then proceed carefully to consider Trade Regulations; but,
if insuperable obstacles shall be found to exist, the British Government
will not press the matter unduly.”

On both sides therefore the compromise was liable to criticism, and
there were even doubts as to whether it would be ratified. In February
1887 Walsham was told unofficially to look out for “an opportunity
of jogging the Yamen about the ratification.” Sir Halliday
Macartney, now adviser to the Chinese Legation in London, had been
speaking about the delay. “He thinks there is a hitch,” Walsham
was told, “and he attributes it to Tseng having probably told the
Yamen that they were flats to have signed such a convention, when

119 Walsham to Rosebery, tel, no, 42, 9 July, 1886, and 43 cyph.,
11 July, 1886, and Rosebery to O’Conor, tel. 10 July, 1886; F,O. 17, 1064.

120 Walsham to Rosebery, no. 226, 14 July, 1886, with memo by
O’Conor, and tel, no. 51 cyph., 24 July, 1886, F.0. 17, 1064. For the text of
the Convention see Parl, Papers, 1886, vol. LXXIII, ‘China No. 5" (C.4861).

Google
142 India, China and Tibet : 1885-86

he (Tseng) had secured much more favourable terms in London.’’**

On the other hand there were British critics who thought that the
Liberal Government which fell from power just after making the treaty
had been far too weak. Colman Macaulay himself took his disappoint
ment so much to heart that his health suffered a fatal breakdown."

The Convention was, none the less, ratified on August 25, 1887.
From the point of view of the Indian Government it would have been
foolish to persist in quarreling with ehe lamas when this might wel
have entailed the sending of an army into Tibet, and when both
Burma and Afghanistan required close military attention.%% At rhe
same time its new Burmese conquest would only be profitable if good
relations with China were maintained. To Lord Dufferin and his
advisers Burma was the bied in the hand, and it was worth any number
of birds in the mountains of Tibet. To some of them like Sir Alfred
Lyall, soon to be criticised as out-of-date old fogeys for their ‘indiffer-
ence’ to Tibet,2% it may even have been a relief to have found so
good a reason for abandoning the Mission. They had indeed shown,
by the standards of that age, a good deal of restraint. India’s rulers,
though foreigners, were not altogether blind to those permanent
factors that have made and still make for friendship between India
and China.

121 Currie to Walsham, private (extract), 18 Feb., 1887, F.O. 17, 1065.
122 Younghusband, op. cits, p. 47s

123, Lyall, op. city vol. Il, p. 133.

124 Sandberg, op. cit,, p. 8; cp. Younghusband, op, cit., Ch. 24.

The writer has published, on the lines of this article, another
interesting. paper entitled “India, China and Sikkim 1886-1890”
in the Indian Historical Quarterly, vol. XXXI. no. 1 (Match 1955)

—Editor

Google
Tripurantakam Inscription of
Vikramottunga Rajendra Cakravarti

By Dr. N. VENKATARAMANAYYA

This inscription was copied by the Department of Epigraphy
as eatly as 1905 and was registered in the Annual Repore of
Epigraphy for the year as No. 170 The full text of the inscription
was subsequently published in the South Indian Inscriptions, Volume
X (No. 474). Ie contains six lines of writing, in Telugu prose and
Sanskeit verse in Sardalavikridita metre, and the alphabet employed
is Telugu of the latter half of the 13th century to which the inscrip-
tion refers itself, The orthography calls for but few remarks,
The anusvara is invariably used instead of nasal ot the group to which
the succeeding consonant belongs; and the consonant conjoined with
the répba is generally doubled, though the rule is not consistently
followed throughout, eg. mir-mada (I.4.) and caturdate (1.6.)-

The inscription registers the gift of a caturmukba kobali to God
Tripurdntaka Mahadeva of Tripurdntakam, sent by a king called
Vikraméttunga Rajendra Cakravarti or simply Vikeamattunga-rat
according to the Sanskrit verse, on Sa(mavata), Su. 5, of the month
of Pusya, in the year Nandana, Saka 1214. The date is quite
regular and it cottesponds to Monday, 15th December A.D. 1292.
The identity of the donor is not disclosed in che inscription; bue
certain facts mentioned in it seem to indicate that he was not an
Indian prince but a foreigner. In the first place, the suffix ‘wttunga’,
with which his name terminates, is reminiscent of the names of kings
of Indonesia, Ie is true that the name Kuldtcunga was borne by
some of the Cilukya-Cola kings of Gangaikonda-Sdlapuram and
their feudatories, specially of Kongu and Velanidu; but it was a
foreign name deliberately adopted by the Eastern Calukya prince
Rajendra after his usurpation of the Cala throne’. The name

1 There is reason to believe that Kuldttunga visited the Far East. Tai-
hua-Kialo who visited the court of China as an ambassador of the Céla
monarch in A.D. 1067 has been taken, though with reserve, to be identical

Google V
144 Tripurantakam Inscription

Kulstcunga finally fell into desuetude with the extinction of the
Velanadu family in che beginning of the 13th century A.D., and as
no South Indian ruler is known to have adopted a similar name subse-
quently, the name Vikram@ttunga must have been somehow connected
with the princes of Stivijaya, who still continued to bear names ending
with the suffix ‘wttwnga’. More important than the name of the
donor are the achievements attributed to him, He is said to have
put down by the strength of his arms, the pride of the rulers of ‘the
fout islands’ whom he reinstated in their respective kingdoms. The
conquest of ‘the four islands’ coupled with his Indonesian name tends
to confirm the belief that Viktamdttunga was not an Indian, but a
foreign prince. He did not, as che Government Epigraphist would
have us believe, take, like the Kayastha chiefs of Valliic, advantage of
the Kakatiya weakness and reduce their dominons to subjection,” but
merely sent a gift to the temple of the God Tripurdntaka-Mahadeva.
The term puttemcina (I.3.) leaves no room for doubt.

A peep into Indonesian history of the time may help us to solve
the problem. The empire of Stivijaya was on the decline; a new king-
dom rose in Java under Mabirajadhicaja Keeanagara Vikeama Dhat-
mottunga, The vigorous ruler of the new kingdom (A.D. 1268-92)
shook off the yoke of Srivijaya and set about on a career of conquest,
He invaded Malaya (Sumatra) sometime before A.D. 1283—in Saka
1127 (A.D. 1275) according to Pararaton—and reduced it to sub-
jection. In the Nagarakrtagama it is stated that the lands subject to
his authority comprised Pahang (Malaya Peninsula), Malaya (Sumatra),
Gurun and Bakulapura (Tanjungpura in Borneo).? Two important
facts about this king may be noted here, as they strongly suggest his

with Deva-Kulo (ttunga); he probably visited on the occasion Kambaja’
(Cambodia), when the king of that country had shown him a beautiful stone
as a curio (Colas ii, pp, 26-27). It is not unlikely that he was it charge of
the expedition which Vira Rajendra sent against Kadiram (Srivijaya) before
A.D. 1068 (Ibid. i, pp. 332-3). During his peregrinations in the Far East,
hhe must have developed a fancy for Indonesian names with the suffix ‘uttunga’
and coined the name Kulottunga which he adopted as his official royal
designation

2 ARE. 1906.11. Para 44. 3 K.A. Nilakanta Sastri: Srivijaya, p. 96.

Google .
Tripurantakam Inscription 145

identity with Vikram@ccunga of the present record. In the first place,
their names are practically identical. Secondly, both of them were
the overlords of an empire consisting of four islands. Moreover,
they ate said to bear titles indicative of imperial dignity—cthe one was
a Mabarajadbiraja and the other Rajéndra Cakravarti. Taking
these facts into consideration, especially the conquest of ‘the four is-
lands’, an achievement to which no Indian prince of the petiod could
lay claim, it is not improbable that Vikraméttunga Rajéndra Cakra-
varti and Kreanagara Vikeama Dharmotcunga were one and the same
person,

Assuming for the nonce the correctness of the identification of the
two monarchs suggested above, an attempt may now be made to dis-
cover the motive which prompted Vikrama Dharméttunga to send a
gift to the temple of Tripurantaka-Mahadeva. The acquisition of
religious merit was not obviously the motive. If that were his object
he need not have sent his gift actoss the seas to distant Tripurdntakam
on the mainland of India; for there were many holy shrines in his
native Java. The object must have been political. The Javanese
king was in need of an ally to curb the activity of the Pandyas who
had been thwarting the Javanese imperialistic designs in recent years.
The Calavarase, a continuation of the famous Mahavamhsa refers to
two Javanese invasions of the time, once in A.D. 1247 and again in
A.D. 1270-71, under a king called Candrabhinu. Though the
Ceylonese claim victories on the invaders on both the occasions, there
is reason to believe that the Javanese gained a foot-hold in the island
and that it was not without outside help that the Ceylonese were able
to eject them ultimately. The Pandyan inscriptions of the period
furnish us with valuable information on the subject. Ceylon figures

as one of the countries conquered by Jativarman Sundara Pandya I
(A. D. 1251-1270)", More light is thrown upon the

indyan

4 The word ‘Dharma’, in Vikrama Dharméttunga, as for instance, names
such as in Pallavae or Kadamba- or Kongani- Dharma maba-raja, is merely,
honorific and makes no difference.

5 Ibid, p. 93.
6 AR. 170, 178, 172, 173, 1766184 of 1892, ARE. 1893 Part I. para. 6.

9
Google
146 Tripurantakam Inscription

conquest of Ceylon in the inscriptions of Sundara’s contemporary and
coregent Jatavarman Vira Pandya (A.D. 1253-12745). In an
inscription at KariSalundamafgalam in the Tinnevelly district dated in
his roth regnal year (A. D, 1262), he is said to have taken the Céla
country, Tlam (Ceylon) and the crown and the crowned head of
Savagan (Javakan).’ His Kudimiyamalai inscriptions dated in the
rith regnal year (A. D, 1263) furnishes more valuable information.
On an appeal from a Ceylonese minister for help, Vira Pandya invaded
the island, killed (in battle) one of the two kings of Ceylon, captured
his army, chariots, treasures, throne, crown, necklaces, bracelets,
parasols, chauris and other royal possessions, planted the Pandya flag
with the double fish on the Kénamalai and received elephants as tribute
from the other king of Ceylon (whom he had obviously raised to the
throne); he had also reduced to submission the son of the Javaka
(king) who had been for a time recalcitrant; rewarded him with
presents and restored to him a rulership in Ceylon that his father once
enjoyed. It is evident that Vira Pandya invaded Ceylon at che
instance of one of che two rival claimants to the throne, The invasion
was completely successful. He put to death the opponent of his ally
and installed the latter on the throne. His attack on the Javaka king,
who appears to have been ruling in the island as an independent prince,
was an incidental campaign undertaken by him probably in the
interest of the Ceylonese king, whom he raised to the throne. The
Javaka offered resistance and suffered death as a consequence on the
batele-field; his son held out for a while, but had to submie to superior
force. Though he was reinstated in his father’s dominion he lost his
independence, and had to reconcile himself to the position of a
feudatory prince dependent on the Pandya.

No information is available in che Pandyan inscptions about the
Javanese in Ceylon subsequent to this period; but from Cilavamnse
we learn that at the time of his second invasion of the island in
A.D. 1270-71, the Javanese King Candrabhinu recruited troops
from the countries of the Pandus, and other parts of che Damila

7 AR No. 588 of 1916.
8 ARE. r921 Part II, para 39, Inscriptions of the Pudukottah State. 366.

Google
Tripurantakam Inscription 147

land.* Ie may be remembered that, at this time, the whole of the
Tamil country was under the rule of the Pindyas. Candrabhinu
would have found it impossible to recruit a large army from their
teititories to invade Ceylon without their connivance if not actual
support. The Ceylonese probably showed signs of recalcitrance; and
the Pndyas considering it perhaps advisable to curb their power lent
support to Candrabhinu’s enterprise. Though according to the
Culavamsa, the Ceylonese succeeded in inflicting a crushing defeat on
Candrabhiou and expelling him from the island,!° it is not unlikely
that they received outside help. Maravarman Kulasekhara (A.D. 1268-
1310), an younger contemporary and co-regent of Jativarman Sundara
Pandya and Vira Pandya had to invade the island some time before
his 2oth regnal year (A. D. 1287) and impose his authority over it.
It is not improbable that his expedition to Ceylon was somehow
connected wich the Javanese trouble. The Ceylonese king unable to
resist the invasion of Candrabhinu probably sent an appeal to
Kulagekhara for help and the latter readily responded to the appeal,
as it afforded him an opportunity to reassert his sovereignty over the
island.

The relationship between Candrabh@nu and Vikrama Dharmét-
tunga, if at all there was any, is not known; both of them were
rulers of Java, the latter came to the throne some two years before the
former set out on his second expedition against Ceylon. An ambitious
monarch like Vikrama Dharmottunga would not have failed to follow
the example of his predecessor and contemplate the conquest of
Ceylon, He must have realised chat in any such undertaking he had
to reckon with the opposition of the Pandyas, and that it was desirable
to secure an ally on the mainland of India co neutralise theit power.
Now, there was enmity between the Pandyas and their northern
neighbours Kakatiyas since the days of Jatavarman Sundara Pandya
Land Ganapathi. The Pandyas wrested from the Kakatiyas the
territory extending from Kafci to Nellore which was subjected to
their authority. The Kakatiya monarch would naturally welcome any

9 See K.A, Nilakanea Sastri, Srivijaya, p. 93.
10 Ibid.

Google 7
148 Tripwramakam Inscription

opportunity which might enable him to recover his lost territory.
Pratiparudra led, as a matter of fact, an expedition to che South
in or about 1191, when he defeated the Dravilas (i.e. the Pandyas).
Considering, therefore that an alliance with the Kakatiya would be advan-
tageous to him in the event of his undersaking an invasion of Ceylon,
Vikeama Dharméttunga appears to have sent an embassy to Warangal,
On the conclusion of their mission, the Javanese envoys appear to have
made the gift registered in the present record in the name of their
sovereign as a memento of their visit.

The gift consisted of a golden kabali with four mukbas (openings?)
weighing fourteen phalas. Instances of such gifts are not unknown.
An inscription at Paficadharala in the Vizagapatam district, dated
A.D. 1422, refers to the gift of a paiica-vaktra-kobali made of gold
to the local DharmalingeSvara temple.'* What exactly is meant by
kobali in these records is not quite clear. K@bali is generally taken
to be identical with kabali denoting a bugle. If that be the correct
denotation of the term, the caturmukbe-kobali of the present
inscription may be considered tobe a bugle with four openings; but
the term dsam, which is used as its equivalent in the Sanskrit verse
todescribe the gift, introduces an element of doubt, for though
it is said to denote several things, kabali nowhere figures as its

equivalenc.

TEXT:

1 Svasti [1*] $ri $ubha Saka Varusarnbulu 1214 agu némti
Nandana Sarhvatsararhbu Pusya Su. 5/S3/narndu

2 Svasti samasta-prasasti-sahitatn Sriman = Mahimarhdalésvara
Sri Vikramoe[t]urnga Rajendra Cakravareti Svasti Sri

3 Tripuratinttaka Sriman= Mahadévarakuch =but [tJerncina pahirhdi
Caturmukha kohali [H*] Dorddarnda-dvaya-ni.

4° rmad-keta catur-dvipadhipa-sthapandciryas-sirya-
sama-pratapa-mahima Sri Vikramot(t] uraga-

5 rit prayaccha[t*] Tripurarntakaya vasudha-bhartea
praharta [dvigim késarh] héma-mayarn

6 caturdasa-phalo {n]bhyam eulabhyam mitarh [I|*).

11 AR. No. 213 of 1892, S. II. IV. 661.
12 AR. No. 218 of 1899. S. II. VI. 667.

Google
Triparantakara Inscription 149

‘TRANSLATION

On Monday, §u, 5 of (the month) Pusya in the year Nandana, corres
ponding to the prosperous and auspicious Saka years 1214 Sri Mahamandalés-
vara Sri Vikraméteutnga Rajérndra Cakravarti, who possesses all commendable
qualities, sent to the blessed God Tripurdrntaka-Mahadéva a golden four-faced

. King Sci Vikramortusnga, who resembles the sun in prowess, established
in their respective kingdoms the rulers of the four islands whose pride he put
down by the strength of his arms; the king, the vanquisher of enemies, gave
to the God Tripuratitaka kdsa made of gold weighing 14 phalas.

Google
Notices of Books and Periodicals

The MUSEE GUIMET has recently published the following five
very useful works written by distinguished savants:
A. Foucher: Les vies antétieures du Bouddha
(with illustration of J. Auboyer)

R, Hackin and A. A. Kohzad: Légendes et coutumes Afghanes
H. Maspero: Les Religions Chinoises

do: Le Taoisme

do: Etudes Historiques

In the first work Mons. A. Foucher, the well-known indologist,
has dealt with the stories relating co the previous existences of Buddha.
In the Introductory chapter the author has commented on the folklores
of India, the theory of transmigration with special reference to the
Buddhist view as found in the Jatakas. He has studied the Jataka
stories along with their depictions in sculptures in Bharhut and
elswhere as also in paintings of Ajanta from various standpoints,
which are as follows: (1) Les Fables: Les fables d’animaux.—Le
Bodhisattva-animal et les hommes.—Les Bodhisattva-homme et les
animaux. (2) Les Fablianz: Le Bodhisattva et les femmes.—Le
Bodhisattva-femme.—Le Bodhisattva s'amuse. (3) Les Contes: Le
Bodhisattva et les basses castes.—Le Bodhisattva et la bourgeoisie. —Le
Bodhisattva et les brahmanes.—Le Bodhisattva et la noblesse.—Le
Bodhisattva et les perfections.

The sketches drawn up by J. Auboyer are excellent and_ vividly
depict the stories,

The second work contains the studies of the legends and customs
of Afghanistan made by Madam Hackin, who spent a long time in
the different places of the country to collect the stories and accounts.
The legends are preserved solely in oral traditions and have not been
kept recorded in any work, and so this treatise is going to preserve
many folklores, which otherwise would pass into oblivion. Bamiyan
was an important centre of Buddhism and contained remarkable traces
of Buddhist monuments but chese have been put into shade by the

Google ‘
Notices of Books and Periodicals 151

Islamic culture that has been prevailing there. The contents of the
book are as follows:

Hazrev-£-Ali : Légende sur Do-&b-€ Mikh-éZatin, Légende sur
le dragon de la Vallée Rouge. Légende sur les lacs du Band-é-Amit.
Une victoire-du célébre héros Hazret-é-Ali sur des éléments nuisibles
du monde souterrain. Acte de foi récompensé per Hazret-é-Ali,
Légende de Salsal et de Chahmama.

Begram: Légende de Begram. Version n°, 2 dela Iégende sur
Begram. Légende sur la zidtat de Rig-é-Ravin. Le vent de Parvin.

Kaboul: Légende de Koh-é-Degtcht.. Le quattier des Kharibat.
Les murailles de Kaboul. Histoire de deux petits garcons. Le fils d’un
marchand de Kaboul. Légende du Tang-éGharou. Djuba, féte de
la fonte des neiges. Légende de Bibi Naurouzi.

Bémiyan: Chabr-é-Gholghola, Variante de la premitte Iégende de
Chahr-é-Gholghola. Inscriptions de la Zitat, Deuxitme Iégende
de Chabr-é-Gholghola,

Légendes sans localisation: Alexandre et les Afghans. Chahr
Banou. La fille de I'empereur de Chine. Légende du dragon.
Coutumes: Matar Ani Le repas d’offrande 3 Hazret-é-Hrezr. Le chit
tchai. Le samanak Naissance, Mariage, La mort Quelques croy-
yances populaires. Quelques proverbes.

The last three works have been compiled from the unpublished
writings of the great Sinologist, late Henti Maspero, and a few papers
published in different journals. Henri Maspero made a critical study
ot Taoism and other Chinese religions for about twenty years, and so
his presentation of the. development of Chinese thought is very sound
and worth reading by all scholars interested in Chinese religions and
thoughts. Each work carries a foreword from the learned pen of Prof.
P. Demiéville, The contents of the three works, reproduced here,
will give a clear idea of che scope of the author’s studies

vou. 1: Les Religions Chinoises: La religion chinoise dans son
développement historique.—La société ct la religion des Chinois
anciens et celles des Tai modernes.—Comment le Bouddhisme s'est
ineroduit en Chine.—Les coutumes funéraires chez les Tai-Noirs du
Haut-Tonkin.—Les ivoires chinois et I'iconographie populaire (the last

two chapters are re-publications along with a chronological table of the
history of China),

Google sny
152 Notices of Books and Periodicals

vou. : Le Taoisme: Le Taoisme dans les croyances religieuses
des Chinois a l’époque des Six Dynasties.—Le potte Hi K’ang et le
Club des Sept Sages de la Forét de Bambous.—Essai sur le Taoisme
aux premiers sitcles de l’ére chtétienne sub-divided under the headings,
(a) La vie religieuse individuelle et 1a recherche de l'immortalité, (b)
Les communnauteés tacistes et le culte public, and (c) Le Taoisme et
les débuts du Bouddhisme en Chine.—Notes historiques sur les
origines et le développement de la religion taoiste jusqu’ aux Han
along with a republished paper on “Le saint et la vie mystique chez
Lao-tseu et Tchouang-tseu’s and ‘Tableau chronologique de l’histori
de Chine.”

voi, ut: Etudes Historigues: L’astronomie chinoise dans la Chine
ancienne, histoire des instruments et des découvertes.—Influences
occidentales en Chine avant les Han.—Le roman historique dans la
littérature chinoise de |’antiquité.—La vie courante dans la Chine des
Han & propos d’une exposition du Musée Cernuschi. There are six
more republished papers, followed by a chronological table of the history
of China. Each of these volume contains an index of Chinese
characters,

in do W’Eoole Francaise de Extreme Orient
Vol. XLVI, pe. ii

In this issue of the BEFEO, appears a posthumous paper of
H. Maspero on the “Contribution to the study of the Chinese society
at the end of the Chang and beginning of the Tcheou.” This paper
has been edited with notes by Prof. P. Demiéville. The topics dealt
with in this paper are as follows: —L’aspect général du pays.—La vie
paysanne,—Le domaine.—La vie royale.—Organisation de la maison
des patticiens propriétaices de domaines.—Organisation administrative’
du royaume.

In this issue of the BEFEO, Dr. André Migot has written an
exhaustive paper on the life and activities of Sariputra, covering about
150 pages of the Bulletin. He has dealt with the following topics :

Importance of the legends of saints, particularly of Satiputra.—(I)
Non-scriptural sources, viz., epigraphic (Bhabru-edict), Saripuera-

Google
Notices of Books and Periodicals 153

prakarana of A’vaghosa, discovered in Central Asia, and iconography
of India, Tibet, Central Asia, China and Japan.—Il. Scriptural
sources.—IIL. Accounts of the conversion of Siriputra as given in the
Vinaya texts of different schools, Ta-tche-tou-louen, in Pali commen-
taties, Buddhist Sanskrie texts, Chinese Canon and other works
including Memoirs of Hiuan-Tsang.—(IV). Siriputra in che Jatakas
and Avadinas,—(V & V1), Sitiputea in the Pali Canon of the Sthavira-
vadins and in the Canons of other Hinaydna texts.—(VII). Sariputra
in the non-Canonical Pali texts—(VIII), Saripucra in the Mahayana
texts.—(IX). Sariputra in the treatise of Vasumitra, Tacanatha and
others.—(X). Saripuera and Maudgalyayana.—(XI) Sariputra and the
Abhidharma,

The chapters have been concluded with che author's remarks on
(i) the importance of Siriputra and the Pali Canon, (ii) Siripuera was
an old saint anterior co the Pali Canon, Sariputta might have
belonged to the Vatsiputriya sect, (iv) Sariputra compared with
other old saints, Ananda and MabikaSyapa, (v) “Pudgala”” conception,

(vi) Importance of Saripuera in Mahayana, and (vii) Sariputra’s con-
nection with che origin of Abhidharma.

Sino-Indian Studies, vol. vy pp. i
(Visvabharati, 1955)

This issue contains che following three papers: —

W. Pachow—A comparative study of the Pratimoksa containing
the four PritideSaniyas, Saiksa-dharmas, and Adhikarana-Samatha-
dharmas along with the concluding Dhammapada stanzas found in the
Pratimoksa-sutras.

W. Liebenthal—Sanskrie Inscriptions from Yiinnan, containing the
the writer’s studies on the Pagodas of Yiinnan Province, on Buddha-
Statues in copper (bronze), on the origin of the kingdom of the Po, on
scone-sculptures, on inscriptions, on Indian influence in Yiinnan.

Kalyan Sarkar—Mahayana Buddhism in Fu-Nan.

Printed and published by J.C. Sarkhel, at the Calcutta Oriental Press Ltd.
9, Panchanan Ghose Lane, Calcutta,

Google ERSIT
oistixety Google

Original from
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

_
oisssese Google

UNIVERST

TY O1

MICHIGAN
Original from

Digitized by Google UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
Original from

Digitized by Google UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
Diattzeaoy (SOO!

