Ss THE
39 JOURNAL

OF THE

GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

Vor. Vi danuary: 1939 No. 1

EDITED BY

U. N, GHOSHAL

Article : Pace
Early Traces of Buddhism in Burma (Nihar-Ranjan Ray)... wet
‘Miscellany :
Date of the Earliest Sanskrit inscription of Campa (D.C. Sirear) ... 53

Notices of Books :

A. Arvappan, Social and Physical Anthropology of the Nayadis
of Malabar (T. C. Das); New Cataloj ‘Catelogorum (6. P.
Buatractarya); B. Avextev, La Litterature Chinoise (P. C.
Baccut); Sactivet, Krgna-Lila (B. K. Guosn); D. R. Sant,
Archaological Remains and Excavations at Bairat (D. P.
Guiosn); Swamt SapananpA, Pilgrimage to Greater Intlia,
Brbattara Bhirater Pajaparvan, Kamboja, Campa, Malay,
Suvarnadvipa (Xj K. Récamex Three chapters from the
Samadbirajasitra (N. Dutt)... - “

Extracts from the Report of the Greater India Soclety (1937-38)
Books Received ... a a
Select Contents from Oriental Journals

FAztsA

Published by—
THE GREATER INDIA SOCIETY, CALCUTTA

Agents outside India—
Messrs, LUZAC & CO., 46 Great Russell Street, London w. c. 1.
Annual subscription—Re, 48 or 8:-6d., including postage.

UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
Go oe LIBRARY
GREATER INDIA SOCIETY
AIMS AND OBJECTS

1. To organize the study of Indian culture in Greater India fie:
Serindia, India Minor, Indo-China and Insulindia], as well as
in China, Korea, Japan and other countries of Asi:

2. To arrange for the publication of the results of researches into the
history of India’s spiritual and cultural relations with the outside
world.

3. To create an interest in the history of Greater India and connected
problems among the students in the schools, colleges and Univer-
sities of India by instituting a atic study of those subjects and
to take proper steps to stimulate the same.

4. To popularise the knowledge of Greater India by organising mass
meetings, lantem lectures, exhibitions and conferences.

MEMBERSHIP RULES
The annual subscription payable by the members is Rs. 12/- only.
Members are entitled to receive the publications of the Society at
concession rates and copies of the Journal of the Society free cf cost.
For rates of advertisements, etc.

Apply to the Manager,
GREATER INDIA SOCIETY,

21, Badurbagan Row,
P, O, Amherst Street, Calcutta,

GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

PATRONS

Maharaja of Pithapuram, Sir B. L. Mitter, and others.
MANAGING COMMITTEE FOR 1939

President—Sir P. C. Ray, Kt.

Hony,. Secretary—Dr. U. N. Ghoshal, M.A Ph.D.

Hony. Joint-Secretary—Dr. Kalidas Nag, M.A. D.Litt (Paris).

Other members of the Committee—O.C. Gangoly, Esq. ; Prof.
Suniti Kumar Chatterji, M.A. D.Litt.(Lond ); Dr. Prabodh
Chandra Bagchi, M.A. D. Litt. (Paris.); Dr. Nalinaksha
Dutt, M.A, D.Litt. (Lond.); Dr. Narendra Nath Law,
M.A.Ph.D.;_— Prof. Vidbushekhara Bhattacharya;
Jitendra Nath Banerjea, Esg., M. A.; Dr. Nihar Ranjan
Ray, M A, Ph.D.. D. Litt.(Leiden).

Journal ‘Sub-Committee _ for 1939—Drs. U. N. Ghoshal,
Kalidas Nag, Narendra Nath Law, Nalinaksha Dutt,
and Suniti Kumar Chatterji.

Google
Ds

THE JOURNAL

4o1
G19
V.G

No. |

OF THE
GREATER INDIA SOCIETY
Vou. VI JANUARY: 1939 No: 1

Early Traces of Buddhism in Burma

(From the earliest times to the introduction of

Theravada Buddhism in Pagan in 1057).
By Dr. Ninar-Ranjan Ray.

The story of the introduction of Theravada Buddhism in
Pagan in Upper Burma after the conquest of Thaton by
king Anawrahta is well known to all students of Indo-
Burmese history and culture. It occurred in the third quarter
of the eleventh century, in 1057, to be more exact, when
Pagan was fast rising into importance. The year 1057, if
we are to believe our lable sources, is indeed a signi-
ficant date in the history of Burma; it marks the starting
point of authentic Burmese history. Before this date there
is hardly any exact history of the Peninsula; available
ak but very little of the activities of its people
date, and even the scanty information that can
be gleaned with difficulty are 80 wrapped in mist and woven
with myths that a reconstruction of the history of that period
means but a careful knitting together of some hypothetical
guesses confirmed in a very few instances by literary or
archaeological evidences. From the Burmese point of view
there is in fact little importance attributed to the peri
prior to Anawrabta’s conquest of Thaton; local chronicles

Google
DS
tol
6h

2 NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

of which we have a very good number from about the
fifteenth century onwards dismiss the pre-Pagan period of
their accounts in one or two chapters which are but com-
posed of hazy and indefinite half-historical, half-legendary
tales thinly interspersed with stray notices of happenings
unconnected with one another. The information supplied
is meagre, and the sources for the chroniclers who sat down
at a much later period to record them down must have
been still more so. Events of great importance must have
taken place, and the course of history must have been as
vigorous and as full of life as it was afterwards, but our
sources have hardly any record of them except in stray and
meagre, often unintelligible, references. But it is as if by a
magic touch that the situation changes with that memorable
year of 1057. With the occupation of the Pagan throne by
Anawrahta the chronicler becomes infused as it were with
new life, his account becomes fuller with details, events
begin to move with force and vigour, the narrative becomes
more vivid, lively and continuous, information more defi-
nite, and his chronicle comes to stand inst a more or less
reliable background. It is from thie date that the chroni-
cles seem to give us a more or less exact history of the
Peninsula in matters political, religious and cultural,
Anawrahta’s conquest of Thaton (1057) is described in
some detail in all the standard chronicles as well asin the
Sdsanavamsa, and is rightly given the importance it
deserves. The long Kalyani inscriptions however make
a short reference, but the reason is obvious, for king
Dhammaceti’s primary object was to record the history of
the Reformation of the Order by himself, and everything
else was of secondary importance, coming in only as an
introduction to his own great work. The successful march
on Thaton is viewed with importance by all later chroniclers,
not so much for the actual conquest of the Talaing country
and assertion of Burmese supremacy, as for the introduction
of Buddhism in its purest form into Upper Burma and the
consequent beginning of actual intercourse of Upper Burma

Google

EARLY TRACES OF BUDDHISM IN BURMA 3

with the outside world. The introduction of the new religion
produced a general outburst of faith, and kings and minis-
ters, rich and poor, queens and maids, nobles and commons
vied with one another in devoting themselves to works of
merit, and to the erection of sacred edifices of diverse
plans and styles which stand to this day, in various stages
of decay, as silent witnesses to the religious it that
pervaded the whole country. It is therefore very interest-
ing to read in the chronicles the rapid and dramatic march
of events which led to this great awakening of faith and
enthusiasm.

Shin Arahan was a young Talaing monk of Thaton,
well-versed in the sacred books of Theravada Buddhism.
Burning with the zeal of a fervent proselyte and with the
intent of preaching the Law to the people of ‘Tampadipa”’
he came to Pagan, and dwelt in a forest ‘not near not far’
from the capital. One day he was brought to the capital
before Anawrahta, the then reigning monarch of the realm
of Pagan.

.And Anawrahta said, ‘Master, of what race art
thou? Whence comest thou? Whose doctrines dost thou
follow?’ And Shin Arahan made answer ‘My race is that of
the Lord Buddha, possessor of the nine qualities beginning
with sanctity, the six glories beginning with Lordship, and
the four incomprehensible beginning with intuition. Thou
sayest, whose doctrine do | follow? I follow the doctrine of
the sermon of authority, most fine, subtle, difficult and

profound, preached by the Lord—the Lord Buddha.” And

1. According to a seventeenth century inscription, quoted by
Burmese diplomatists in negotiation with the British Government and
tuanslated for his Government by Colonel Burney, at that time
Resident at Ava, Tampadipa included the districts of Pagan, Ava,
Pinya and Myingyan. Yule, Mission to the Court of Ava, The British
Burma Gazetteer, however, equals Tampadipa with the upper portion
of the Theyet district, on the east bank of the Irrawady. (Vol. ii

P: 746).

Google
4 NIHARRANJAN RAY

the king was full of joy and rapture, and spake again,
entreating him, ‘My Lord, preach me somewhat—yea, but a
little—of the Law preached hy the Lord, the Master.” And
Shin Arahan preached the Law.......when he had made an
end of preaching the king spake again: ‘Where is my
Master, the Lord—the Lord Buddha? How much is the
sum of the Law preached by the Lord? Liveth there any
disciple and son of the Lord save thee, my Master?" ””

To all these Shin Arahan made adequate and satisfactory
replies.

“And when Anawrahtaminsaw heard the words of
Ashin Aral he was seized with an ecstasy of faith
unbounded, and he said, ‘Master, we have no other refuge
than thee! From this day forth, my Master, we dedicate
our body and our life to thee! And Master, from thee I
take my doctrine!’ And he built and offered him a monas-
tery in the forest......When the king and all the people
forsook their own opinions and were established in the
good Law, the Ari lords lost their gain and honour and bore
great hatred against Shin Arahan. And the king fearing
that the Ari would practise ill against him, took good heed
and appointed guards enough to defeat the thirty Ari lords
and their sixty thousands disciples. At that time there
came many saints and novices from Thaton, and made
saints and ghostly counsellors of those who were faithful in
the religion. (Glass Palace Chronicle, pp. 73-75)

But the religion that Shin Arahan had introduced could
not thrive, there being no sacred text in Pagan, for ‘without
the scriptures there can be no study, without study there
can be no intuition." But where were the scriptures to
come from? And Shin Arahan said ‘In the country of
Thaton are thirty sets, the three Pitakas in each set. There
are also many sacred relics!" So Anawrahta sent a wise
minister with a store of gifts and presents to Manuha, the
king of Thaton, to beg of him certain sacred texts and
relics. But Manuha grew jealous, and ‘answered ill Te
is not seemly to send the three Pitakas and the relics to

Google
EARLY TRACES OF BUDDHISM IN BURMA 5

such as you, who hold false doctrines—even as the fact of
the maned lion can be kept in a bowl of gold and not ina
vessel of clay.” It was a direct hint at Anawrahte’s
former patronage of the Samanakuttaka heresy, and an
insulting refusal. Anawrahta grew furious and marched on
Thaton with a huge force on land and sea, and laid siege
to the city. The rest of the story is briefly told. Anawrahta
men captured Manuha with his family and ministers who
were all taken captive to Pagan. But Anawrahta’s objective
was still something more than Manuha himself or his king-
dom, he wanted scriptures, and learned teachers to explain
and preach all that was contained in them. He therefore
“brought away the sacred relics which were kept in a
jewelled casket and worshipped by a line of kings in
Thaton; and he placed the thirty sets of Pitakason the
king’s thirty-two white elephants and brought them awa:
Moreover, to the noble Order acquainted with the books of
the Pitakas he made fair appeal and brought them away.’*
Manuha was perhaps at first treated with consideration and
allowed to pass the rest of his days at Myinkaba, in the
outekirts of the royal capital, where he built two temples,
the Nanpaya which contains his throne room, and the other
named and still known after him where there is a colossal
figure of the Buddha entering the parinirvdna. Later on,
Anawrahta seems to have dedicated him and his family as
slaves to the Shwezigén pagoda, thus rendering them
outcast for ever.*

2. Sasanavamsa, p. 62. Sadbammapurindo Manobari nama raja
pi maccheracitto butva tumbadisanam micchaditthinam thine pitakat-
tayam sariradbityus ca pabinitum na yutta tilokaggassa bi sammasam-
buddbassa sasanam sammaditthinam thane yeva patitthassat) yatha
nama kesarasibarajassa vasa suvannapatiyam yeva na mattikabbajane ti,

3 Glass Palace Chronicle, pp. 78-79.

4. The New Chronicle however denies this, and adduces an
interesting reason: ‘Various Chronicles say that Anawrahta dedicated

Google
6 NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

Shin Arahan had now got all that he wanted to have,
and his mission received, as a result, a wonderful fillip. He
had now at his service a large band of monks devoted to
his cause, anda library of sacred texts’ at his disposal.
The abominable Aris—the heretic Samanakuttakas, as the
Sasanavamsa would call them—were already at bay; the
king with his counsellors and ministers had already been
won over; and the field was ready for the Arhanta to sow
And he lostno time. With the king and the
court behind him and all the resources they could com-
mand, with the services of a devoted band, but above
everything, with the zeal and fervour of a preacher and
reformer and the willto win, his work of propagation of
the sacred religion of the Sakyamuni went apace till within
a very short time he had won thousands of converts to his
side. Hundreds came forward to receive ordination, and
entered the sacred Order, burning with the zeal and
enthusiasm of new converts. At the head of them all, to
guide them all was Shin Arahan, the primate of a kingdom
daily growing and expanding.

So much for an account of the story of the introduction
of Theravada Buddhism in Pagan in upper Burma. From this
account it is evident that in the middle of the eleventh cen-
tury Theravada Buddhism had a very flourishing existence in
the Ramajfifiadesa, the land par excellence of the Talaing:

Manuha, king of Thaton, to the Shwezigon.......lf Manuha was so
dedicated his grandson would not have been married to king Narapati’s
daughter.’ The Sisanavamsa too seems to suggest that Manuha (or
Manohari) was not ungenerously treated by Anawrahta, (pp. 63-64)
See also Forchammer's Report, Jan., 1891, pp. 7-8.

5. The Scriptures that were brought from Thaton were all
housed by Anawrahta in a library hall specially built for the purpose.
This building known as the Bidagataik (=Tripitaka taik or Tripitaka
library), an edifice of wooden origins, stands to this day amidst the
jungle of ruins of Pagan.

Google
EARLY TRACES OF BUDDHISM IN BURMA 7

and its capital Thaton* “in the land of Thudammawadi
(=Sudhammavati)”’ swarmed with hundreds of monks who
lived in monasteries that must have housed libraries
containing not only the books of ‘‘the Three Pitakas but
also the Four Books of Divination’”’*

“‘ueeAnd the king of Arimaddanapura, having
possession of king Manuha, took away the saintly monks,
who were full of learning and piety; he took away the
monks who knew the Three Scriptures and the Four Books
of Divination......he took them all to the land of Arimaddana
(Pagan).’*

Moreover, the kings of Thaton were

“famous and mighty kings, and who upheld the
religion of the Lord; all the people followed the command
of almsgiving and all other commands of righteousness.""’”

There were in Thaton also different orders of monks
besides the one to which Shin Arahan himself belonged.

“And thou hast asked—Is there any monk of the Order,
save myself, a disciple of the Lord? Yea, verily; besides
myself there are the Paramattha Order and Samuti Order."""*

Pali as the language of the religious texts must have
been known there and understood by the entire body of
monks and atleast by a section of the lay people; Pali
literature, mainly canonical and commentarial, was also
presumably more or less widely read. It is evident that this
reputation of Thaton as a centre of the religion of the
Buddha was not built in a day; it must have taken some-
time to be able to share the glory she owned with Kaijici-

6. Thaton was anciently known as Sudhammapura or Sudhamma-
nagara. (Taw Sein Ko, “Preliminary Study of the Kalyani Inscrip-
tions,” Ind, Ant, Vol. xxii, p. 17).

7. Paklat Talaing Chronicle.

8 Ibid.

9 Ibid.

to. Hmannan, I, 252.

11. The Glass Palace Chronicle (Hmannan), p. 74.

Google
8 NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

puram and Kaveripattanam in South India on the one hand
and Ceylon on the other, which incidentally, were the three
other contemporary centres of Theravada Buddhism. We
may, therefore, start with the assumption that Theravada
Buddhism was introduced into Suvannabhiimi, the land of
the Mons or Talaings, at least several centuries earlier, and
gradually established itself not only at Thaton, but also at
other places in Lower Burma.

But at the same time it must also be borne in mind that
all our sources of information regarding Anawrahta’s sack
of Thaton and consequent introduction of Theravada
Buddhism in Upper Burma—the Kalyani inscriptions, the
Hmannan and other Burmese chronicles—belong to a much
later date. In fact the Kalyani inscriptions are the earliest
dateable record alluding to this important historical event,
and these inscriptions cannot be dated earlier than the 15th
century. In recent years quite a large number of inscrip-
tions from Pagan in Mon, Pyu and Burmese and dateable
from the 10th to the 14th century, have been discovered
and deciphered, and it is strange that not even one of them
contains any reference to this important and glorious histori-
cal event—glorious from the Pagan point of view. Indeed
the omission ie so significant as to lead one to doubt the
authenticity of the whole story as contained in the later ins-
criptions and chronicles, No dialectical ingenuity is good
and convincing enough to explain the silence of the host of
contemporary and almost contemporary records of Pagan
kings and the nobility to whose credit must have been due
the vigorous religious and cultural drive that we witness in
Pagan during the reign of the Anawrahta dynasty. Yet one
must account for the deluge of lithic records pervaded by
the unmistakable spirit of Buddhism, the countless number
of temples, stépas, monasteries, all dedicated to that noble
faith and containing images of gods and goddesses belonging
to the Buddhist pantheon, that suddenly begin to crop up
at Pagan onwards from the eleventh century. One cannot
help feeling that this sudden outburst must have been due

Google
EARLY TRACES OF BUDDHISM IN BURMA 9

to some outside contact, some achievement that brought
Pagan in touch with the march of a civilised and cultured
life unknown to these northern barbarians who had swooped
from their hilly retreats on to the torrid plains of the upper
Irrawady. And strangest of all strange things, the Pagan
records do not make any mention of any such contact, any
such historic upheaval, and pity it is that one has to fall
back upon an explanation contained in records that are
at least four centuries later than actual events. But it
is almost impossible not to admit that these records, though
late, offer on the whole a trustworthy and perhaps convin-
cing explanation.

The problem ahead

The difficult but interesting question now arises: When
did Lower Burma, the land of the Pyus, and of the Mons,
adopt for the first time the faith of Theravada Buddhism,
and which are the traces of its footprints during its course
through centuries since its first adoption in the Peninsula ?
Are we to accept or reject the tradition, so insistent in
Burma, of the Asoka mission of Sona and Uttara to Suvan-
nabhiimi? Should we rely or not on the later tradition that
makes Buddhaghoga, the celebrated Buddhist encyclo-
pae monk of Thaton which he is said to have made
the centre of his missionary activities in the Peninsula, or
credits him tohave brought a complete set of the Buddhist
scriptures from Ceylon to Thaton in the 5th century A. D. ?
Have there been brought to light any new facts or factors,
hitherto unknown, that prove, more or less definitely, the
existence of Theravada Buddhism in any part of Burma
prior to the middle of the eleventh century ? It is on a
satisfactory answer to these and other similar questions that
depends the reconstruction of an account of the early
history of Buddhism in Burma. I shall therefore proceed
to examine one by one such facts and problems
be expected to throw some light on our subject of inve:
tion.

2

Google
10 NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

The method followed

In trying to find answers to the questions just stated the
method will be to trace our steps backwards. We shall
first try to find the state of Buddhism in the firet half of the
eleventh century in the neighbouring kingdoms of Thaton,
e.g., in Pegu, and then tracing backwards try to establish
from archeological evidences, the existence of the Religion
in the old kingdom of Prome from c. 600 to 900 A.D. Our
next step will be to further corroborate the fact of the
flourishing existence of the religion in the kingdom of
Prome during this period with the help of Chinese literary
evidence of more than one source. We shall next try to
push the story of the religion earlier still and establish from
epigraphical evidence of most definite and unquestion-
able character, that Buddhism in its most abstruse doctrinal
and philosophical aspects was known and practised in the
capital of Prome as early asc. 450 A.D. This will natur-
ally lead us to an examination of the Buddhaghoga tradition
which is even to-day very strong in Lower Burma, and which
does not seem altogether inadmissible. Our next step will
lead us earlier still, to the middle of the 3rd. century A. D.,
when Buddhism was being practised in a country known in
almost contemporary Chinese chronicles as Lin-yang
which I propose to identify with a place in Burma. My
final step will be to examine the tradition of the Asoka-
mission of Sona and Uttara to Suvannabhimi in about
250B.C. The conclusions I shall arrive at will be summa-
tised at the end of the chapter.

1
Buppiism IN Pecu, c. 1000-1050,

The account of the conquest of Thaton, as we have just
seen, is evidence enough of the very flourishing existence
of Buddhism in the middle of the eleventh century in the
realm of king Manuha where presumably the religion had
been in practice for a very long time. Equally flourishing

Google

EARLY TRACES OF BUDDHISM IN BURMA "

condition seems to have prevailed in the neighbouring king-
dom of Pegu. But Buddhism was not the only religion in
the realm of the kings of Pegu, as it was neither in Thaton.
Brahmanical Hinduism was a strong rival in Thaton as well
as in Pegu and elsewhere, where it sometimes claimed
homage and patronage from the reigning kings ; and the
two religions at times even came into conflict with one
another. The tradition of such a conflict is preserved in
the Slapat Rajawan, a local Burmese chronicle. There is
much of legendary element in the story which | reproduce
at some length below, but to any careful reader its historical
value is obvious. The story which relates itself to king
Tissa of Pegu, assigned according to local or Burmese
reckoning to the middle of the eleventh century (1043-57),
affords a key to the position of Buddhism in Pegu during
his reign, and shows how it was sometimes persecuted ;
but that is obviously an attempt of the chroniclers who
were all Buddhists of a much later date at proving the
superiority of the religion they themselves professed.

“Tisesa was a heretic king of Pegu. He... made no
obeisance to Buddha, to the Law he hearkened not, he
honoured the Brahmanas. He threw down the images of
the Buddha and cast them away into ditches and marshes.

“Now there was a certain merchant’s daughter who
clung to true religion. Bhadradevi was this maiden’s name.
From her tenth year she went out to listen with her parents
and hearkened continually to the Law. She had exceed-
ing great joy in the Three Gems (Triratna). Daily she said
the Three Names of Refuge (Buddha, Dhamma, Samgha)
with care. And it came to pass that the time when she was
in her first youth was the time when the king cast down the
images of the Buddha. At that time the maiden went down
to bathe, and by chance she thrust her hand
image of Buddha. And she drew it up
with gold. She asked, ‘who has caused thi
cast away?’ And the old slave-woman made ai
this king follows the word of false teachers. Verily it i

it glistened

Google
1a NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

the king who has caused this image of Buddha to be cast
away? Whoever greets, honours or bows before Buddha
at the pagodas, him the king causes to be slain and to be
brought to naught’. Thus said the slave-woman, When
the maiden had heard their words, she spake on this wise,
‘Lobey the Three Gems. I can endure death. First wash
the image clean, then set itup at a pagoda.’ She herself
and the slave-woman washed it and set it up at a pagoda.
“Now as she was setting up the image, these things were
told to the king. And he sent runners to call her. The
maiden, that ring adorned with gems beyond price, spoke to
the king’s runners saying, ‘Let me abide here before the
image.’ And she made haste to wash every image of
Buddha as many as were there, and to set them up every
one. And, after a time he sent more runners. When the
maiden came before him, she spake unto him. But he
listened with anger and spake in this wise, ‘Take her to the
elephants that they may trample her to death.’ Then the
maiden caused gentleness to soften the king and the
elephants and the elephant-men, and continually she said, ‘I
take refuge in the Lord’ and she called on the Three Names
of Refuge. And the elephant dared not tread on her, but he
roared with his voice, neither could the elephant-men make
him run at her. ‘So men told the king in fear. When the
king heard these things, he spake in this wise, ‘Cover her
with straw for the funeral pyre. But the maiden caused gen-
tleness to work again, and she called on the Three Names of
Refuge. Men stirred themselves to burn her, yet she burn-
ed not. So they told the king in fear. Thus spake the
king, and he said, ‘O maiden, when | see the image of
Buddha, thy teacher fly up into heaven, then mayest thou
live. But if from the image of thy teacher there fy not up
seven images, eight images, | will have thee cut into seven
pieces.’ And he had her led to the foot of the ditch......and
she prayed on this wise, ‘O image of the Lord of Bliss! I,
thy hand-maiden, set up thy images. Buddha is lord every-
where, his Law is lord everywhere, hie Samgha is lord

Google
EARLY TRACES OF BUDDHISM IN BURMA. 13

everywhere. As Buddha, his Law, his church are every-
where lord, so may eight images of Buddha fly up into
heaven at the king's hall.’ And in the twinkling of an eye
there flew eight images up into heaven...towards the king’s
hall. And the maiden returned and pointed it out to the
king...... Then said the maiden ‘O earthly king, Buddha
my teacher is gone to Nirv Thou hast been able
to see only his images fly up into heaven in his stead. Thou
hast followed false teachers and called them better. Let
thy hand-maiden see them fly up.” Then the king com-
manded them to fly. But the false teachers could not fly.
And the king drove them away...and he caused the maiden
to bathe, and he raised her to be his chief queen...
returned thanks and followed true religion over after.

‘Thenceforth Tissa became a faithful follower of Buddh-
iom and proved himself to be a patron of the Faith, Here
is another passage, from another chronicle :

“‘In Benares land there was an ancient pagoda on the top
of the river Ganges’ bank. When the bank was washed away
men picked up the relics and holy images that had been
enshrined there, and gave them to their children to play, for
there was no longer anyone to worship them. Now Nga
Dula, a ship's captain, saw this, and he thought, “The folk
of the east country deem these images divine and worship
them. I shall get gain if | sell them tothe folk of east
country,’ So he bought them for a fitting price and came
with them to the landing stage at Pegu.......Men told king
Tissa....and he rewarded Nga Dula richly and ennobled
him.’

Incidentally it gives an idea of the attitude of the
Peguan people towards Buddhist images; they considered
these images divine and worshipped them.

12. Schmidt, Slapat Ragawan datow smin ron. Buch des
Ragawan, des Konigsgeschichte, Vienna, 1906.
13. Sbwemadaw Thamaing.

Google
4 NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

i
BuppHism IN OLD PRromE, C. 600-950

Archaeological Evidence.

It is a pleasure to turn from such hazy and indistinct
literary references of doubtful historical value to evidences
archeological which are more direct and definite. They
tend to prove that besides Thaton and Pegu, Buddhism was
an established religion also in the old kingdom of Prome.
Moreover, these evidences take us back at least four cen-
t earlier than one thousand A. D. when we have more
or less definite evidence of the existence of Buddhism in
Pegu and Thaton.

Such archeological evidences consist in a number of
ancient monuments, stipas and rectangular temples, at
Hmawza, a village full of ruins five miles to the south of the
modern town of Prome, anda good number of stone and
bronze images, inscribed terracotta votive tablets and reli-
quaries discovered at the same locality and belonging
definitely to the Buddhist creed. But before we can turn to
a consideration of these archeeological documents it is
necessary to take notice of the few faint lines of political
history of the kingdom of Prome during the seventh, eighth,
ninth and tenth centuries to which period the large majority
of the monuments, sculptures, bronzes, terracotta tablets
etc., just referred to, may be assigned, stylistically and
paleeographically.

Besides casual references in the chronicles of the T'ang
dynasty to the eighteen vassal states of P'iao and thirty-two
different settlements (to which we shall have occasion to
refer in detail), there has been discovered at Hmawza a
number of epigraphs in the little known Pyu language
cribed on stone and earthenware funeral urns recording
the names of certain kings of Prome whose names end in
‘varman’ and ‘vikrama.’ The first set of these names
were found recorded in a number of inscriptions on several
such urns recovered in 1911-13 from an ancient vault near

Google
EARLY TRACES OF BUDDHISM IN BURMA 15

the Payagi pagoda; these inscriptions record the names
of kinge Siriyavikrama, Harivikrama and Sihavikrama,
evidently of Hmawza, who ruled according to Dr. Blagden,
the learned editor of these inscriptions, presumably in the
seventh and eighth centuries A.D.'* The second set of
names which, by the way, happens to be the names of a king
Sri Prabhuvarma and his queen Sri Prabhudevi were found
recorded in another one line Pyu epigraph inscribed around
the lower rim of a votive stipa. This stipa, it should be
mentioned, has another line of Pali inscription around the
rim of the top of the cover, in a script which has long been
recognised by M. Finot for the first time,’* to have very
close affinities with the Kadamba script (Kannada-Telugu,
according to Biihler) of South India, of the fifth and sixth
centuries of the Christian era. The significance of Pali
epigraphs in this particular script will be discussed ina
succeeding section; for the present we shall confine our-
selves to the importance of these Pyu epigraphs with
special reference to their bearing on the subject of our
study.

The name-ending ‘varman’ led M. Duroiselle very
naturally to surmise’ that the ruling dynasty or dynasties
apparently of Indian blood, had their original home some-
where in South India, evidently in the Cola-Pallava country
where royal dynasties with name-endings in ‘varman’ were
rather common; in fact, the kings of the Pallava dynasty
had their name-endings in ‘varman’. There were also
reasons for assuming that there were two ruling dynasties,
a ‘varman’ (e.g. Sri Prabhuvarman) and a ‘vikrama’ dynasty"?

14, Blagden, Ep. Ind. VIL. pp. 127-32.

15, Finot, “Un nouveau document sur le buddhisme birman,”
].A., XX, Juil-Aout, 1912-27, pp. 121

16. An. RAS, 1926-27, p. 172 and plate XXVIII, e. These
inscriptions have not yet been edited, but a short notice appeared in
above.

17. The kings of the South-Indian Kadamba dynasty had their

Google
16 NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

(e.g. Siriyavikrama, Harivikrama, etc.), both having
their original home in South India. A long inscription, not
in Pyu or Pali, but in Sanskrit and interspersed with Pyu
words and phrases which are nothing but translations of the
Sanskrit version, in clear north-eastern Gupta Brahmi
script of about the sixth and seventh centuries was very
recently recovered from the ruins of the old city." This
record ie important from more than one point of view,
supplying as it does a definite starting-point in the
political history of old Prome anda considerable amount
of information onthe contemporary history of Buddhism
in the capital city. Moreover, it contributes substantially
to the elucidation of the origin of the Pyu script.

It may now definitely be stated that the Pyu script is
nothing but a local adaptation of the Indian Brahmi script;
and so far as the evidence of the few inscriptions discovered
up to date may help us to ascertain, it seems that this
adaptation took place sometime about the fifth century
A.D.; for Pyu alphabets and numerals show a very close
resemblance with those of Brahmi of the Gupta period.
But itis not yet possible definitely to ascertain whether
it was the north-eastern or southern Brahmi that served as
the source for the newly-evolved script, though it may be
pointed out that the elongated character of the alphabets
is more southern than north-eastern.’

name-endings in “‘vikrama.” Cf. the nigamana of the Abbidbamma-
vatéra of Buddhadatta who was a native of Uragapura (Uraiyur) and
flourished during the reign of king Acyutavikrinta or Acyuta-vikrama.

18, This important record, the first of its kind in Burma, is
still unpublished. But the courtesy of Mr. K. N. Dikshit of the
Archzological Survey of India, has enabled me to study the record,
a summary of the results of which I am incorporating here. 1
acknowledge Mr. Dikshit’s kindness and courtesy with thanks.
A. notice of the inscription appears, however, in An, RA. SJ.
1927-28, pp. 128, 145.

19. For my preliminary reading of the Sanskrit text of the

Google
EARLY TRACES OF BUDDHISM IN BURMA 7

A Buddhist Dynasty of Kings.

The epigraph alluded to above is inscribed on the four
sides of the pedestal of a torso of a Buddha image seated
in dhya@namudra@ and vajraparyanka attitude. Stylistically
the image is definitely of late Gupta tradition, and may
safely be ascribed to exactly the same period as determined
by the paleeography of the inscription. The record in
beautiful Sanskrit verse seems to have been set up by king
Jayacandra Varman at the instance of his religious teacher
(Arya) with the express purpose of establishing and enhan-
cing peace, amity and good-will, it seems, between
Jayacandra Varman, the king, and his younger brother
(tasyénuja) Harivikrama who built two cities (puradvayam),
evidently side by side, and one for each, even in one day
(ekaikadivase). The import of the record allows us to
arrive at some tentative conclusions: first, there presumably
have existed some rivalry between the two brothers
Jayacandravarman and Harivikrama, and the elder
Jayacandravarman was advised to put an end to it by
providing two cities, one for each, from where they ruled,
probably side by side and contemporaneously, so that there
could be no loss of peace and good-will between the two
brothers. Secondly, Jayacandravarman and Harivikrama
both belonged to one and the same dynasty, not to two
different dynasties by reason of their having had different
name-endings, though it is possible that they had branched
off in two different lines and ruled separately. There was
thus no ‘vikrama’ or ‘varman’ dynasty in Prome as hitherto
assumed. The different sets of names so far known of this
Indie -d dynasty of Prome can be provisionally arranged,
in the light of the above assumption, in the following
way?

inscription, and a rough English rendering, see Appendix to this
chapter.
3

Google
18 NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

First line. Second line.
ae sss vee Stiriyavikrama (688 A.D. 2)
Jayacandravarman tasyanuja Harivikeama (695 ?)
Sti Prabhuvarma (n) —... Sthavikrama (718 ?)

Sri Prabhudevi.

Thirdly, the dynasty seems to have migrated not from
South India but from the north, more particularly from
north-eastern India. This is proved not only by the script
of the inscription which is north-eastern Brahmi of the
Gupta period, but by the art-tradition as well of the Buddha
image round whose pedestal the epigraph is inscribed, and
further by the language and creed of the inscription. But
I must confess that this point cannot be pressed too far, in
view of the better and stronger possibility of a royal dynasty
having migrated from South India.

Fourthly, and this is important from our point of view,
the dynasty to which these ‘varman’ and ‘vikrama’ kings
belonged was evidently a Buddhist dynasty. This is proved
firstly by the Pyu inscription round the silver-gilt reliquary
stdpa, referred to above on which there are images repoussé
in high relief of the four last Buddhas, with their name:
cribed in Kadamba script, respectively below them.”” They
are Konagamana, Kakusandha, Kassapa and Gotama with
their attendants Kasab (Kassapa), Maulana (Moggalana),
Sari (Sariputta) and ......da (Ananda), the four disciples of
the Buddha. It is significant that the names are given in
their Pali form, and that these names are followed by a short
extract consisting of what seems to be words taken from
Pali scriptures. The characters of the record suggest that the —
source of inspiration of the subject of the record was the
Pallava-Kadamba region of South India. This is also strik-
ingly confirmed by a stylistic consideration of the images
moulded in high relief on the stdpa; they belong to an

20. It is unfortunate that these inscriptions have not yet been
edited, nor their contents made known in any detail, For short
notices, however, see An. RAS, 1926-27, p. 172-73.

Google
EARLY TRACES OF BUDDHISM IN BURMA 19

art-tradition having remarkably Pallava affiniti A further
and more definite evidence of their cult is provided by the
Sanskrit inscription round the pedestal of the Buddha image
just referred to above. As the record was set up by the
king himself who chose the pedestal of a Buddha image for
inscribing hie historic record, it may be assumed that
Jayacandravarman and his dynasty professed the Buddhist
faith. “The kingdom of Prome was thus ruled over during¢’ 7
roughly speaking, the seventh and eighth centuries by an
Indianised Buddhist dynasty of kings ; and it was presum-
ably under the aegis of this dynasty that the majority of
the monuments of the old capital of the Prome kingdom
were probably built, sculptures executed, bronzes cast and
terracotta tablets moulded.

Short Pali Epigraphs.

Among other Pali records relating to Theravada
Buddhism may be mentioned a few tablets in which is ins-
cribed the well-known Buddhist formula of the extolment
of the qualities of the Buddha beginning with “‘iti pi so
bhagava araham ...... etc.”?? We shall see later on that

this formula is inscribed on a number of Pali records re-
covered from old Prome. Besides such records, there have
also been recovered from the debris of ruins of the old city

a small number of terracotta votive tablets with the popular

Buddhist formula ‘“‘ye dhamma hetuppabhavd ...... etc.
in Pali inscribed almost invariably in nagari character:
the eighth, ninth and tenth centuries. Such tablets
the formula in Pali in similar characters but paleeographi-
cally somewhat later in date (belonging to the eleventh and
twelfth centuries) have also been picked up from the
ruins of old Prome and Pagan. But they all seem to have

ar. For a short notice of these records, see An. RAS, 1927-28,
Pe 145.

Google
20 NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

been locally copied to order from Sanskrit originals. Of
such Sanskrit epigraphs recording the Buddhist formula in
nagari script we have literally a deluge both from old Prome
and Pagan as well as from other sites, for example, from
Sameikshe near Thazi. These tablets were generally depo-
sited, probably as relics inside the relic chamber housed
within the shrines and was also sometimes used by wander-
ing devotees as moving shrines, a practice still not unknown
among wandering preachers. Exactly similar tablets with
the Buddhist formula inscribed in Sanskrit have been found
in large numbers in eastern India, at Sarnath, Bodhgaya,
Nalanda and other places; and not in a few instances the
tablets found in Burma were bodily carried over by Indian
emigrants to Burma and by Burmese pilgrims who came to
pay homage at the sacred sites sanctified by association with
the Master.

This well-known and oft-quoted Buddhist formula, we
shall see later on, is also quoted as the opening extract in
two gold plates bearing Pali epigraphs and discovered at
Maunggan, near Hmawza. These epigraphs may paleeo-
graphically be dated in the 5th-6th centuries A. D., and
here we find probably the earliest epigraphic record of the
formula in Pali, and perhaps the only genuine and in-
dependent reproduction of the formula in that language,
no doubt shorn of its context, otherwise than in the Vinaya
Pitaka®® where it is described to have been uttered in a two-
line verse in Arya metre by Assaji to Sariputta at which the
spotless eye of the doctrine of causation arose in the latter.”*
Thus runs the verse :

Ye dhamma\hetuppabhava tesam hetum tathagato aha

Tesafi ca yo nirodho evamvdadi mahasamano ti

22. PTS. edn, Mabivagge I, 24, 2.
23. There is also a very short reference to this legend in the
Nidanakatha of the Jatakas.

Google
EARLY TRACES OF BUDDHISM IN BURMA an

Of things that proceed from a cause, their cause the
Tathagata has spoken, and also the cessation which
is of them: thus is the teaching of the great Samana
or ascetic.

The formula does not occur anywhere else in the Pali
Pitakas: and in the Vinaya, the verse formula at least if
not the entire legend of Assaji and Sariputta which incor-
porates the verse, has been rightly suggested to be a later
interpolation.* The Pali formula certainly corresponds
to the Sanskrit verse

Ye dharma hetuprabhavd hetuntegam Tathagato

hydvadattesafi ca yo nirodho evamvadi mahasramanah
which is found not only in the Mahavastu (III, p. 461) but
at the end of almost all important Sanskrit Buddhist works of
the northern school, though it is difficult to trace in any
of these texts the legend of Aévajit and Sariputra. This
formula in Sanskrit, we have already pointed out, is also
inscribed in a number of Buddhist votive tablets and
images in north-eastern India. The verse formula, there-
fore, seems to have become more popular with the northern
Buddhists who hardly knew anything of the Aévaji
putta story as the Pali Vinaya knows it.”* This is indeed
curious, and somewhat difficult to explain. My suspicion
is that the formula originally arose in the northern school,
independent of any legend whatsoever, at least a few
centuries after Gotama the Buddha had lived and preached,
and was incorporated later on by pious editors and com-

24. E. J. Thomas, Life of the Buda, 1927, p. 94, 0. 1; Mrs. Rhys
Davids, Sakya or Buddbist Origins, 1931, pp. 135-36-

25, The Mahivast, a text of the Vinaya Pitaka of the Loko-
ttaravidins gives the story of the conversion of Siriputta and
Moggallina almost in the same way as that of the Pali Vinaya; but
in the place of Assaji we have Bhikkhu Upasena at whose first words,
light entered Sériputta’s mind. It shows probably how the Mabavastw
drew upon the eatlier Pali Vinaya, just as the Pali Nidana Katha drew
also upon the same Pali Vinaya.

Google
22 NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

pilers of the Pali canonical texts, into the Mahavagga
story of the conversion of Sariputta and Moggallana. This
explains to a certain extent, | think, the wide and immense
popularity of the formula with the northern Buddhists who
knew it, independent of any legend, as a versified expre-
ssion of the essence of the Buddhist doctrine or gospel of
causation.

All we have said above is by way of a digression, just
to ascertain the probable source of origin of the formula.
As to the formula in Pali as quoted in the Maunggan
plates, it is possible that it was reproduced directly from
the Pali Vinaya Pitaka for, other portions of the records
reveal intimate knowledge of the other two Pifakas as
well, and as the script is South-Indian, there is certainly
much to be said in favour of our assumption. But with
regard to the terracotta votive tablets of Old Prome and
Pagan on which the formula is inscribed, it seems that it
was, though the language is sometimes Pali, copied locally
to order, already suggested, from Sanskrit originals
inscribed on similar tablets.

Buddhist sculptures, etc.

Among other archeological documents of old Prome
that may more or less definitely be said to belong to the
Theravada faith may be taken into account some frag-
ments of stone sculptures depicting scenes from the life
of the Buddha. Such sculptures though not so numer-
ous, are nevertheless unearthed from time to time; and
some of them are really interesting from the view-point
of Buddhist iconography. One such is a scene carved on
a piece of stone representing the well-known story of the
Buddha about to partake of the food offered him by the
two merchants Trapusha and Bhallika which is detailed
not only in the Jatal but in the Mahavastu and Lalita-
vistara as well. Following this story and connected with
it in an inseparable way is that of the four Lokapala devas
who brought four stone bowls from which the Master was

Google
EARLY TRACES OF BUDDHISM IN BURMA 23

to eat the food offered by the two merchants. This story
is depicted in another relief in which the Buddha is repre-
sented as seated in bhamisparéa mudra ona lotus pedes-
tal, and on his left is placed what seems to be an alms-
bowl. He is flanked by four standing personages, two
on either side, and each of them holding a bowl in both
hands. Presumably they are the four Lokapala devas in
the act of offering bowls to the Buddha.** Whataleo seems
to be a Jataka story is represented on a plaque where the
main figure is dressed in crowns and armlets as a Prince
and is seated cross-legged on a lion throne with his hands
in dhyanamudra. He is flanked by two standing figures
turned towards him; that on the proper left is, as if it were,
in the act of striking with a club held in both hands, the
other on the right seems to be scratching the prince's arm.
It is tempting to identify the scene as a representation of
the Mugherpakkha Jataka."” On another terracotta votive
tablet the Buddha is flanked by two figures on each side,
those to the right are in monkish dress, and to the left in
secular dress. Below them are represented six persons three
on each side of what seems to be the dharmacakra. Lower
below are two gazelles flanking the wheel of Law which
helps at once to locate the scene at the Deer Park or
mygadava of Benares; and if the five figures to the right
are all monks, the scene must refer itself to the story of
the first five converts of the Master, the Pajicavaggiya
bhikkhus. There are also other fragments of stone and
terracotta which depict the main scenes in the life of the
Master. Such examples and numerous others mostly in
stone and terracotta which represent the Buddha in one
or other of his traditional mudras and dsanas and with or
without his disciples and attendants, may stylistically be said

26. An. RAS, 1927-28, p. 129; for two other scenes in the
Buddha's career, Ibid, pp. 130, 131, plate LV. figs. 4 and 10.

27. An. RASL, 192627, p. 171.

28. Ibid, 1909-10, p. 123, plate XLIX fig. 8.

Google
24 NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

to derive their inspiration from the familiar Gupta tradition
of eastern India, and ascribed on the same consideration
to a period ranging from the sixth to about the ninth century
of the Christian era. They are indubitable proofe of the
existence of Buddhism in the old kingdom of Prome during
these centuries.

Some of the Buddha images in stone—and there is a
good number of them, fairly large in size—are frankly
works of local art nd craftsmen. Such examples are
almost invariably seated in paryankdsana with the right
hand in bhamisparsa mudra and the left placed on the lap
and holding an almsbowl. This limited and orthodox
iconographic type may perhaps be said to afford some argu-
ment for these images to be considered as belonging to the
orthodox or Theravada school, an assumption which is
supported not only by their facial and physiognomical fea-
tures, distinctly local as opposed to Indian, but also by the
stylised rendering of the artistic and iconographic type
traditionally inherited from the Indian Masters. One such
image can still be seen carved in a large slab of stone”
(8 2” x6’ 3”x 1’ 3”) in the Bebe pagoda which is a
mall square building surmounted hy a pyramidal roof in
three stages superimposed by a 4ikhara. The Buddha is
seated in paryarkdsana and is flanked by two figures seated
cross-legged with aureole round their heads, their hands
raised to the chest and clasped in adoration. They are evi-
dently disciples. But what is interesting in this piece of
sculpture is to see the Buddha's left hand, not the right, in
bhamisparga mudra, and the right placed on the lap and
holding the almsbowl. This one example is evidence
enough to show how the local craftsmen while translating on
stone the first lessons in iconography they received from
their Indian teachers made mistakes that obviously the local
converts did not consider grave. Another example of
similar figures—the iconography is, however, quite correct

29. Ibid., 1909-10, p. 120, fig. 3 on p. 121.

Google
EARLY TRACES OF BUDDHISMIN BURMA 25

in these instances—may be seen sculptured in groups on a
large rectangular slab of stone™ from the Yahandagu
pagoda. Eight images here sit cross-legged in a row, all
with their right hand in bhamisparfa mudra and the left
placed on the lap and holding an almsbowl. The schema-
tic curls of the hair are treated in mass; and the safghati is
indicated only by its edges as also by the fold treated in
mass that hangs from the left shoulder. Figures of Buddha
of similar iconographic type but belonging probably to a
different artistic tradition may be seen at the Lemyethna
temple, also another small rectangular structure whose roof
is supported by a heavy masonry four-sided pillar in the
centre. Facing the cardinal points there appear origin-
ally to have been slabs of stone, with figure sculptures
executed on them in bold relief, embedded in the square
pillar. Two only of these slabs, those on the south and
‘west, remain ; that on the south bears on it an image of the
Buddha represented as seated cross-legged on a throne with
what seem to be three flower vases in front.’ The sculpture
has suffered so badly that the image has lost its head, and the
two accessory figures flanking him, portions of their body
aswell. The right hand of the principal figure is placed on
the right knee with the palm down and the fingers raised
upwards which probably suggests that it is in what may be
called varadamudra. The standing figure on the right is
probably that of a male, and that on the left of a female,
but it is difficult to identify them owing to their very bad
state of preservation. On the stone facing west the Buddha
is fanked not by two human figures but by two caityas, and
is provided with an aureole round the head. It is, moreover,
seated on a lotus throne ‘‘with the feet, not the legs, cross-
ing each other, thus showing the sole of one foot, that is the
right foot which is placed just above the other, instead of
both soles. The left hand is placed on the lap, but the

30. Ibid, 1909-10, Plate LI.
31. Ibid, p. 120, pl. XLVI, fig. 6.

4

Google
26 NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

right hand instead of being placed over the right leg with
the fingers pointing to the earth and the palm inward, is
stretched out and placed over the right knee."”** Duroiselle
has rightly suggested an iconographical affinity of this type
with the Buddha images of Amaravati in South India;** and,
I think, that his assumption is supported by artistic consi-
derations as well.

Buddhist monuments

Now, coming to a consideration of the monuments, we
can ascertain at once, from what we have just noticed, that
the Bebe, Lemyethna and Yahandagu temples were all de-
dicated to the worship of the Buddha, and judged from their
sculptures these temples cannot be assigned toa date later
than seventh century A. D. It is possible further to assume
tentatively from a consideration of the art and iconography
of the images that these temples were mainly patronised
by the followers of the Theravada school of Buddhism.
And, if the Pali stone inscription fragments found from the
debris of ruins of the railings and base of the Bawbawgyi
stdpa had originally formed part of monument itself, then
we can possibly count more or less definitely the
Bawbaweyi al one of the many religious foundations
of the Thera at Hmawza. Other monuments such
as the east Zegu temple, the Mahtaw village stipa, the
Payagyi and Payma stipas, etc. were also definitely
dedicated to the worship of the religion of the Master.
The figure sculptures attached to such temples and
terracotta votive tablets recovered from the relic chambers
or from the debris of ruins of some of these temples are
definitely of north-Indian tradition, and not unoften have

32. An. RAS, 1924-25, p. 26, Plate Ill, fig. 2.
33. Ibid., p. 27.

Google
EARLY TRACES OF BUDDHISM IN BURMA. 27

inscriptions on them in early eastern ndgari characters. To
select one example at random, the main image (2’ 8" x1’
64”) of the (east) Zegu temple is one of the Buddha seated
in cross-legged fashion with an aureole round his head. He
is flanked by twocrownedand well-dressed figures—probably
Bodhisattvas—each carrying a cauri. The right forearm
which seems to have been in the attitude of preaching is
missing as also the face; the palm of the left hand is,
however, placed on the knee. Below is the Wheel of the
Law flanked by two gazelles on either side of which are
two worshippers evidently in the attitude of adoration.
The scene probably relates itself to the dharmacakra
pravarttana at the Deer Park of Benares. This piece of
sculpture plainly derives its style from the familiar Gupta _
work of Northern India. ‘It can hardly be assigned toa /
later date” says Sir John Marshall, ‘‘that the seventh
century A. D., and may be earlier’.

And, it ie strange that from what have up-to-date
been recovered by research and exploration in inscriptions,
sculptures and bronzes from the site of the old capital, it be-
comes apparent that the relations of the Pyu kingdom with
north-eastern India were much more frequent than with South
India, and the influences from the former in art, icono-
graphy and religion much more overwhelming than from
the latter. This is a fact that has hardly yet been recog-
nised, and even as late as 1925, M. Duroiselle opined
that the school of sculpture at old Prome ‘was influenced
mostly by South India’.** Though it is not the place to go
into a detailed discussion of the question, it should,
however, be pointed out that M. Duroiselle’s contention
is not borne out by the finds up till now made at Hmawza.
In fact, among sculptures of which a large collection has
been made in recent years there is not more than a dozen
that may definitely be said to betray South-Indian in-

34. An. RAS, 1909-10, Plate XL VII, Fig. 4., p. 116.
35 An, RASB., 192425, p. 27.

Google
28 NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

fluence whereas there has been picked up a countless
number of stone sculptures and terracotta tablets that
frankly derive their style from the familiar later Gupta
sculptures of north-eastern India. In inscriptions as well,
without in any way underestimating the value in this
respect of the Pali records in South-Indian script, one can
point out that the importance of the long Sanskrit inecrip-
tion recoverd from Kan-wet-khaung-kén and the number-
less votive tablets with Sanskrit epigraphs, all in north-east-
Indian script, is not much the less. A systematic study of
the monuments of Prome is yet to be made, but here also
as elsewhere, we may point out that not only the stipas
like the Bawbawgyi but also the rectangular edifices like
the Bebe betray north-east-Indian traits as revealed
respectively in the contemporary Dhamak stipa of Sarnath
and replicas of rectangular temples with éikharas sculptured
on some of the reliefs of Bihar and Bengal, no doubt of a
later date.

The sculptures and monuments referred to above by
no means exhaust even a fraction of what the old site of the
ruined capital has yielded to archeological research and
exploration. It has been possible for us to take notice of
only a few just to show that with very few lithic records
and reliable chronicles at our disposal, these sculptures,
bronzes, terracotta tablets and monuments constitute in
fact the main, if not the only data for rewriting the very
little known account of the early history of Buddhism in
Burma. The main conclusion as revealed by a study of
these documents is now well determined, and it may be
stated that Buddhism during the several centuries from the
sixth to at least the tenth was a popular and flourishing
religion in the capital city of the old kingdom of Prome,
and obviously at other centres of the kingdom as well,
expressing itself in numerous monuments, votive tablets
and images in stone and bronze, and deriving its inspi
tion not only from south India but from north-eastern India
as well.

Google
EARLY TRACES OF BUDDHISM IN BURMA 29

MW

Buppiism IN OLD PRromE (Contd.)
C. 675—700 A. D.

What we conclude from archeological evidence
is strikingly corroborated by Chinese literary sources
of the period. The most important evidence in this
respect is supplied by the itinerary of the celebrated
Chinese pilgrim I-ching. But it seems most unfortunate
to the student of the history of Buddhism and the different
Buddhist schools that this devoted scholar of the religion
who travelled from China to India via the ancient
kingdom of Srivijaya by sea, and spent twenty-five years
(671-695) abroad interesting himself in the study of
Buddhism could find no opportunity to visit any of the
regions bordering the sea-coast of Burma or situated at some
distance to the interior. But if he could not actually visit
any country in Burma, as he could not also most of the
islands of the Malay archipelago and countries of Indo-
China of which he speaks nevertheless,"* he certainly took
pains to learn about the state of the religion in all
these countries lying to the east of the Bay. That he
succeeded at least to some extent is proved by a
note in his Nan hai chi kuei nai fa ch’nan (ch. I, f. 3,
verso).

“At the (eastern) extremity (of the eastern frontier coun-
tries, ie. East India) there is the so-called ‘Great Black’
mountain, whichis, I think, onthe southern boundary of
Tu-fan (Tibet, according to Takakusu). This mountain is
said to be on the south-west of Shu-Chuan (Ssu-Ch'uan)
from which one can reach this mountain after a journey of a
month or 80. Southward from this and close to the sea-
coast there is a country called Srikgetra (Shih-li-ch’a-ta-lo) ;
on the South-east of thi Lankdsu (Lang-chia-shu); on
the east of is Dva (ra) pati (She-ho-po-ti); at the extreme

36 Takakusu, Itsing’s Records of the Buddbist Religion, pp. 8-11.

Google
je NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

east Li The inhabitants of all these countries greatly
reverence the three Gems (evidently the Buddha, Dharma
and Samgha). There are many who hold firmly to the

precepts and perform the begging dhita”’ which constitutes
a custom in these countrie:

Of the countries alluded to in the above passage, Lin-i
has been sought to be inde: d with Campa, She-ho-po-ti
with Dvaravati (mod. Ayuthia in Siam), Shih-li-ch’a-ta-lo

37. The begging dbitta is one of the thirteen dhittaries which are

enumerated in Pali in the following order:
Pamsakalikarigam

Tecivarikangam

Pindapatikangam

Sapadanacarikangam (Begging {rom door to door)
Ekisanikaiigam

Arahfiakangam
Rukkbamilikaigam
Abbhokasikai gam
Sosinikagam
Yathasanthatikangam
m. Nesajjikafigam

OE these Nos. d and f are not found in the Sanskrit list of
Dhitaigas (For Chinese counter-terms, see Takakusu, Ibid., pp. 56-57
Childers, Dbittaigam). I-ching’s reference perhaps includes all the
three kinds of begging.

38 Takakusu, [bid., pp. 9-10; Pelliot, BEFEO., 1904, pp. 405-6;
Chavannes, Religienx Eminents, p. 58 n.

As to the state of the Religion in Lin-i, there is a further reference
in I-ching’s Record (Takakusu, op. cit. p. 12): “Setting out from
Kwan-chou (Huan-chou), a district in Annam, right to the south one
will reach Pi-king after a journey of rather more than half-a-month
con foot, or after only five or six tides if abroad ship; and proceeding
till southwards one arrives at Campa ic. Lin-ii In this country
Buddhists generally belong to the Aryasammitinikaya, and there are
also a few followers of the Sarvastivadanikaya,

re Foee Pam me ao oe

Google
EARLY TRACES OF BUDDHISM IN BURMA 3

with Srikgetra or the old kingdom of Prome (whose capital
is represented by the ruins of the village of Hmawza, 6
miles to the south of the present town of Prome), and
Lang-Chia-shu with the kingdom of Chia-mo-lang-chia or
Kamalanka of Hsiian-chuang.** Of these, the identifications
of Lin-i, She-ho-po-ti (also mentioned by Hsiian-chuang as
To-lo-po-ti) and Shib-li-ch'a-to-lo are generally accepted,
the latter country having also been mentioned by Hsiian-
chuang situated to the north-east of Samatata by the
side of a great sea in a valley of mountains.’

But itis difficult to be equally definite with regard to
the one remaining identification, though I have elsewhere
sought to identify I-ching’s Lang-chia-shu or Lankasu with
the entire Tennaserim division (Sanskrit Buddhism in
Burma, pp. 24-29). It is generally assumed that I-ching’s
Lang-chi u or Lankasu is the same as Hsiian-chuang’s
Chia-mo-lang-chia or Kamalanka, the reason being that
Lang-chia-shu is placed by I-ching exactly in the same
relation to Srikgetra and Dvaravati (To-lo-po-ti) as Chia-
mo-lang-chia is placed by Hsiiang-chuang in relation to
the same two kingdoms (i.e. Srikeetra and Dvaravati).‘?

39 For these identifications, see, Takakusu, op. cit., pp. lili
Phayre, History of Burma, p. 32; Beal, Buddbist Records of the
Western World, Vol. Il, p. 200, n. 34; Chavannes, op. cit; and above
all Pelliot’s “Dewx Itineraires” in BEFEO., 1904.

40 Hsiian-chuang’s orientation of Sriksetra is evidently wrong;
for it lies far to the south-east, not to the north-east of Samatata,
The only solution that occurs to me is that Sriksetra means (as is)
not improbable), not the capital, but the kingdom presumably of the
Pyu; that at the time of Hsiian-chuang the Pyu kingdom extended,
not as Phayre conjectured; “for a few miles north and south of Prome,
but as in 86 AD., over Upper Burma; and that the road into
Burma from Samatata started in a north-easterly direction, probably
leading through Manipur and joining the Kamaripa route detailed
by Chia Tin (785-805 A.D)” (JBRS., XIV. Il. p. 161).

41 “Thence north-east (ic. from Samatata) beside the great sea

Google
3 NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

There can thus be no objection tothe two kingdoms
being the same; nor can there be any apparent criticism
against their being identified, as both Phayre and Beal do,“*
with Pegu and the deltaic region of the Irrawady. But as
Lang-chia-shu has been identified with a considerable
number of similar names found in Chinese and other
sources, possibilities of identification of the kingdom with
other regions in Indo-China have very naturally suggested
themselves, and it is difficult to ignore them. It is pointed
out that Lang-Chia or Lang-chia-shu is mentioned several
times by I-ching asa port visited by the pilgrims whose
lives he records, on their way to India. To quote one such

a Chinese pilgrim, was tossed on shipboard over
the seas of the south. He passed the pillars of Copper
and reached the kingdom of Lang-chia. He crossed the
kingdom of Ho-ling (Java) and traversed the country of the
Naked People (Nicobar)........-After several years he
reached Eastern India, in the kingdom of Tan-mo-li-ti
(Tamralipti).*

Where is Lang-chia or Lang-chia-shu ?

It seems clear from this passage that I-ching’s Lang-
chia (-shu) ‘‘was on the west coast of the Peninsula, on
the route somewhere between Annam and Java; and if
80, how can it be both south-east or Srikgetra and west of
Dvaravati which is placed on the basin of the Menam ?
ching, when he sent his Lives of the Pilgrims back to China,

in a valley of the hills, is the kingdom of Shi-li-ch’a-ta-lo; thence to
the south-east, in a comer of the great sea is the kingdom of Chia-mo-
lang-chia; thence in the east, is the kingdom of To-lo-po-ti.” This
is from Hstian-chuang’s Records; compare it with that of I-ching
quoted above.

42 Op. cit.

43. Chavannes, Religieux Eminents, p. 100.

Google
EARLY TRACES OF BUDDHISM IN BURMA 3

had lived about eight years in the seas of the south,
mostly at Palembang. Could he have made any mistake
about the position of Lang-chia-shu...... ? Or did he know,
without troubling to distinguish them, two kingdoms of the
name Lang-chia (-shu) the one somewhere in Tennasserim,
the other on the east side of the Peninsula south of the
Isthmus of Kra ? Or is I-Ching here merely echoing
Hoeuang-chuang, but substituting for Kamalanka (a name
unknown to him), one that was familiar, Lang-chia-shu,
without much regard for geographical accuracy?""“* These
are some of the very pertinent questions that have been
raised, and one has to think over them before he can hope
to come to a conclusion on this point.

Meanwhile, Lang-chia-shu has been taken to be iden-
tical with the kingdom of Lang-ya or Lang-ya-hsun which
is referred to in the Liang shu (ch. 54, f, 3 verso) and with
that of Lang-ya-hsii mentioned in connection with Ch'ang
Chun'’s embassy to Ch’ih-t'u kingdom in 607-8 A.D, Pei
Shih, ch. f. 3 recto ; Sui shu, ch. 82. f. 1. verso)“.

Without going into the details of these texts which have
been ably weighed and considered by Chavannes, Schlegel,
Pelliot and Luce,“* it may be said that the position of
these kingdoms as described in the Chinese texts referred
to, seem to be quite in accordance with that of I-ching’s
Lang-chia-shu, i.e. they were situated somewhere in the
east coast of the Malay Peninsula south of the Isthmus
of Kra in the southern sea. Furthermore, Lang-chia-shu
has also been identified with Ling-yu-sed-chia mentioned
by Chau-ju-kua (1225)*’ as one of the fifteen dependencies of
San-fo-ch'i_ (Palembang =Srivijaya=Sumiatra), which again,

44, Luce, JBRS., op. cit., pp. 162-63.
45 Ibid., pp. 164-65,
46 elliot, op. cit., BEFEO., 1903 and 1904; Chavannes, op. cit.;
Schlegel, T'oung Pao, IX, 193; Luce, op. cit.
47 Chau-ju-kua, Ed. by Hirth and Rockhill. This kingdom is
alto referred to as Ling-ya-ssi.
5

Google
34 NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

Qcedés thinks,’ is the same as (a) Ilangasogam of Tanjore
Tamil inscription of Rajendracola (1012-1042). and (b)the
Lénkasuka,a dependency of the Majapabit, mentioned in the
old Javanese poem Nagarakrtagama (14th century). elliot
thinks that Lang-chia-su=Lang-ya-hsiu=Lang-ya-hsii=Ling-
ya-ssti (-chia)=Lénkauka were one and the same kingdom”
which he identifies with Tennasserim, Ferrand agrees with
him but further indentifies it with Ilahgasogam, the Locac
of Marco Polo® (end of the 13th century), and finally with
the Lang-saké, of an Arabic manuscript of the l6th cen-
tury, situated on the east coast of the Malay Peninsula.”
He, therefore, fixes the position of the kingdom on the
Isthmus of Ligor. But Qoedés, while finding in Lang-chia-
shu of I-ching, Lang-ya-hsiu of the Liang shu and the Lang-
ya-hsii of the Sui shu one and the same place, sees in
the Ilangasogam of Rajendracola’s inscription, the Ling-
ya-ssy-chia of Chau-ju-kua and the Lénkasuka of the
Nagarakstagama quite a different place’. He identifies
the former with Tennasserim just as Pelliot does, and the
latter with Gunong Jérai or Kedah Peak, in the south of
the Kedah state.

Lang-Chia or Lang-chia-su= mod. Tennasserim Division.

Ihave in short reproduced above the various identifica-
tions of I-ching’s Lang-chia-shu and the data on which
they are based. None of them evidently is free from
objections. Pelliot was obviously influenced by the fact
that I-ching located the kingdom south-east of Srikeetra
and west of Dvaravati which one cannot certainly ignore.
But I do not understand Ferrand’s arguments for placing

48 BEFEO., 1918 No. 6.

49 BEFEO., 1904, pp. 405-407.
50 Yule and Cordier’s edn. Vol. Il. p. 276.

51 1A., Jwillet-Aont, 1918, pp. 134-145, 153-54-
52 A translation of the Keddeh Annals, J. Ind. Arch., III,

pp. 11-13.

Google
EARLY TRACES OF BUDDHISM IN BURMA 35

iton the Isthmus of Ligor ; his identification does neither
suit the statement that it was situated south-east of Sri-
kegetra and west of Dvaravati nor the fact which I-ching
elsewhere seems to indicate, according to some, that it
was on the opposite coast of the Peninsula somewhere on
the route between Annam and Java. The first identifica-
tion of Goedés is understandable but the distinction he
makes between the two sets of names is open to objections
which have been ably pointed out by Prof. Luce."* For
the present, however, | am rather disposed to agree,
though it is not conclusive, with Pelliot, and identify
I-ching’s Lang-chia-shu with at least that portion of the
present Tennasserim n which extends from Tavoy to
Tenasserim i.e. the region watered by the Tenasserim river
which is really to the south-east of Srikgetra and west of
Dvaravati (in the lower valley of the Menam)."* As for other
references by I-ching™ to Lang-chia-shu, I think they can be
reconciled in the following way; the boats that carried the
Chinese Buddhist pilgrims kept generally to the coastline till
they passed Fii-nan (or Chen-la as it was then called)

53. IBRS., XIV. Il, p. 168-169.

54 Personally 1 would like to assume that Lang-chia-shu was
Practically identical with the entire Tenasserim Division of to-day
extending from Thaton to Tenasserim. The positon then of the
various kingdoms (not of the islands but of the continent) bordering
the southern seas may be stated briefly as follows: First, Shisl-ch'a-
tal or Srikgetra ic. the old kingdom of Prome of the Piso or Pyu;
second, Lang-chia-shu or Chia-molang-chia (Kamalanka) to the
south-west of Srikgetra and west of Dvarivati; third, She-ho-po-ti or
To-lo-po-ti (Dvarivati) on the lower valley of the Menam in modern
Siam; fourth, P’an-p'an to the south of Dvirivati and south-west
of Linei (Campa) in a comer of the sea’; fifth, Chen-la or old Fu-nan
(Cambodia) to the east and south-east of P'an-p'an; and lastly, Lin-i
to the extreme east extending as far as the coast.

55 Sce Chavannes, Religienx eminents pp. 57, 78, 100.

Google
36 NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

whence they did no longer follow the coast line, but favoured
by the current crossed the Gulf of Siam almost diagonally till
they came to anchor somewhere at the head of the Gulf
on the east coast of the Peninsula, whence they crossed
over to Ho-ling or Java, and thence via Nikobar to Tamra-
lipti. For the rest, we can safely assume that the
kingdom of Lang-chia-shu extended from coast to coast of
the Peninsula.

Accepting this identification for the present, we are
now in a position to use more or less definitely I-ching’s
data as to the state of Buddhiem in the countries we are
concerned with in our present subject of study. Of the
various countries in Indo-China ractised Buddhism in
his time, one, i.e. Srikgetra is definitely included in Burma;
and the other also we have, for the present, identified with
a region that is included in the same country. According
to I-ching, ‘the inhabitants of both these countries greatly
reverence the Three Gems, and many of them hold firmly
to the precepts and perform the begging dhiata which
constitutes a custom in these countries’. That in one of
the two countries, namely, Lang-chia-shu, Chinese Buddhist
priests used to be received in those days with honour and
treated with a great deal of respect will be evident from
the two following passages which we quote on the autho-
rity of Chavannes:

I-lang, Chih-ngan and I-h:
having reached We-lei (a small sea-port west of Pakhoi in
Canton) sailed on a merchant +++ They passed
Fé-nan, and anchored in the country of Lang-chia-shu) ;
and were treated by the king of that country with ceremony
that is usually accorded to very honoured and distinguished
guests.**

Further, Tao-lin, another Chinese pilgrim, also visited
the kingdom of Lang-chia; he too was welcomed by the

three Chinese pilgrims,

56 Chavannes, Religiewx eminents, p. 57.

Google
EARLY TRACES OF BUDDHISM IN BURMA 37

king of the country with the greatest courtesy, and was
treated with utmost care and respect.

It now remains to be considere
Buddhism of Srikgetra and Lang-cl hu (in the 7th cen-
tury) really belonged? On this point, I-ching himself, I
think, gives us a very illuminating and a most definite
lead. He speaks of the four as or schools of Buddhism
in his time: the Aryamahdsanghika nikdya, the
Aryasthavira nikaya, the Aryamilasarvastivada nikaya, and
the Aryasammiti nikaya, though ‘which of the four schools
should be grouped with the Mahayana or with the Hina-
yana is not determined.’” In South India generally and
Ceylon exclusively ‘all follow the Sthavira nikaya, or
Theravada, which was certainly included in the Hinayana.
Sammiti nikaya also evidently was a Hinayanist schoo!
I-ching seems also to include the Sarvdstivada nikaya in
Hinaydna. For, when he speaks of the “Islands of the
Southern Sea, consisting of more than ten countries,
where the Malasarodetivdda nikdya has been almost
universally adopted,” he states rather baldly that ‘‘Buddhi-
sm is embraced in all these countries, and mostly the
system of the Hinaydna (Smaller Vehicle) is adopted except
in Malayu (Sri Bhoja=Sri Vijaya =Sumatra) where there are
a few who belong to the Mahayana (Larger Vehicle)” And
on this point I-ching certainly could not mis-state facts, for
he himself subscribed to the school of the Sarvastivadins.”

57. Ibid., p. 100.

58 Hsiian-Chuang, the older pilgrim, definitely labels the
Samuitiya school as Hinayanist. Watters, Yuan Chwang, Il, pp. 178,
242, 246, 247, 249, 252, 256, 258, etc.

59 “In L-Ching’s time the Sarvastivada school flourished most
in North India and in Magadha in Central India, (Madhyadefa) and
had also some followers in East and West; but was entirely absent
in Ceylon and had very few adherents in South India. No other
school, so far as we can ascertain, ever flourished so widely as the
Servastivada, cither before or after the seventh century; though its
adherents in India alone, in Hsiian-Chuang’s time were not so nume-

10 which school this

Google
38 NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

This is more clear in the statement he elsewhere makes :“‘In
Northern India (where ‘all belongtothe Sarvastivada nikaya,
though we sometimes meet the followers of the Mahasanghi-
kanikdaya) and in the islands of the Southern seas they gene-
rally belong’to the Hinaydna, while those in the Divine Land
or Red Province (meaning in both cases China) devote them-
selvs to the Mahayana; in other places (obviously excluding
South India and Ceylon where Sthavira nikaya was followed)
some practise in accordance with one some with the othe:
It, therefore, follows that I-ching considered, and rightly so,
Sarvastivdda nikaya as belonging to the Hinayana, though he
does not expressly say so.

From I-Ching’s clear and somewhat detailed account
of the distribution of the different schools of Buddhism, we
are thus, I think, in a position to presume that the two
countries of Burma (Srikgetra and Kamalanka or Lankasu),
where Buddhism was practised in his time, belonged to
the Hinaydna which included not only the Theravada, or
Sthavira nikaya as I-ching calls it, but the Sarvdstivada
nikaya as well. The prevalence of the latter sect may, in
our present state of knowledge, seem somewhat startling,
but, I think, we have somewhat independent evidence to

rous as those of other schools (JRAS., 1819, p. 420) Takakusu, op. cit.
XXII

60. I-ching’s line of distinction between the two Buddhist sys-
tems, Hinayana and Mabayana, is likely to be considered liberal from
the orthodox point of view. “Those who worship the Bodhisatevas
and read the M Siitras are called the Mabiyanists, while those
who do not perform these are called the Hinaydnists. There are but
two kinds of the so-called Mabayana: the Madbyamikes (of
Nagarjuna) and Yoga (or Yogicara of Asaiga), Ibid., p. 14-15.

Hyiian-Chuang also very loosely distinguishes between the two,
though he had great personal leanings towards Mabayine. This
explains why he sometimes describes even the Sehavire school as be-
longing to Mahayana. See, Watters, op. cit. Il, pp. 136, 198, 234, 241,
248

Google
EARLY TRACES OF BUDDHISM IN BURMA 39

Prove its existence, at least in the capital of the Old Prome
kingdom in about the seventh and eighth centuries, and at
Pagan in the subsequent centuries, till the twelfth. As to
the prevalence of the Theravada, the Pali inscriptions found
at Hmawza and discussed in a succeeding section bear
ample and eloquent testimony.

Iv

BuppHism IN OLD PRoMe (contd.)
c. 750-850 A. D.

Evidence of T’ang Chronicles
C.800

But before we take leave of the valuable information
afforded by Chinese texts we have to consider one or two
relevant passages relating to the kingdom of P’iao (Pyu),
in about the ninth century, from the chronicles of the
T'ang dynasty of China (618-907 A.D.),"" so far as they
relate to our present subject of study. The Hsin-t'ang-
shu (ch. 222 C, £. 2 verso) mentions eighteen kingdoms as
vassal states of who are mentioned elsewhere in
the same chronicle as having thirty-two chief settlements
that were presumably distributed over the region extending
from at least the mouths of the Salween in the south to so
far north as to include the whole of Upper Burma". The
capital of the P'iao or Pyus has long been successfully
identified with Hsiian-Chuang’s Shi-li-cha-ta-lo (Srikgetra)
or Prome; the evidence therefore of the T’ang chronicles
as to what they have to record as regards the religion of
the country is certainly of interest inasmuch as it follows
close upon that of I-ching.

61 Chin-vang-shu of Lill Hsu, etc, and Hsint’ang-shu of Ou
Yang Hsin and Sung Chi.

62 See, BEFEO., 1904, Pelliot’s Dewz Itinersires, p. 223; also.
Ferrand, |.4., Marz-Avril, 1919, p. 251; Luce, JBRS., p. 161.

Google
40 NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

“When the P'iao King goes out in his palanquin, he
lies on a couch of golden cord. For long distances
he rides an elephant. He has several hundred
women to wait on him. The wall of his city built of
greenish glazed tiles, 160 li round, with twelve
gates and with pagodas at each of the four corners.“
The people live inside......... They dislike taking life.
They greet each other by clapsing the arm with the
hand. They know how to make astronomical cal-
culations. They are Buddhists and have a hundred
monasteries, with bricks of glass were embellished
with gold and silver vermilion, gay colours and red
kine .-At seven years of age, the people cut their
hair and enter a monastery; if at the age of twenty
they have not grasped the doctrine they return to lay
estate. For cloths they use skirts made of cotton,
for they hold that should not be worn
volves the taking of life. ad

The annalist continues, ‘There huge elephant (or

image) a hundred feet high; litigants burn incense and
kneel before it, reflecting within themselves whether they
be right or wrong, and then they retire. When there is

63 The remains that are clearly defined of this extensive wall
can still be seen round the ruins of the city; and three of the four
pagodas at the four comers can pethaps be traced in the Bawbawgyi,
the Payagyi and the Pyama stipes.

64 This probably refers to the Brahmana court-astronomers whose
influence in the Buddhist courts of Indo-China was considerable.
They are again and again mentioned in Mon Inscriptions of the
rith-r3th centuries. It is not improbable that the Buddhists had
some knowledge of astronomical calculations leamt from the
Brahmana priests whose existence in the old capital of Prome during
these centuries is proved by the discovery of Brabmenicel images,
mainly Visnuite, Ray, Brabmanical Gods in Burma, Calcutta, 1932.

65 Parker, Burme with special reference to the relations with
China 1893, p. 12.

Google
EARLY TRACES OF BUDDHISM IN BURMA 4t

any disaster or plague, the King also kneels before it and
blames himself’.

The evident conclusion

The evident conclusion is that during the eighth and
ninth centuries Buddhism in the capital city of Prome con-
tinued as strong as ever, and claimed—this at least is the
impression one gets from the passage quoted above—the
large majority of the population, each individual member
of which was required to spend some specified years of
life as a monk, a custom that is still widely prevalent in
Burma. The reference to a hundred monastic establish-
ments need not be taken literally, but it certainly indicates
a flourishing state of the religion in the country where the
doctrine of ‘non-killing’ had taken so deep a root as not
to escape the notice of even foreign sojourners,

Vv

BuppHisM IN OLD PRoME (contd.)
C. 400-C. 600 A.D.

It has been sought to prove in the foregoing pages that
Buddhism was already an established religion widely
followed and practised in the kingdom of Prome from
about 600 A.D. But it is possible to push the history of
Buddhism in this part of Burma back to at least one cen-
tury and a half earlier still. The evidence is epigraphic
and hence may safely be relied upon.

As early as 1897 there were discovered at Maunggan,
a small village close to Hmawza, two gold plates bearing
Pali epigraphs inscribed in characters that have long been
recognised as having a very close affinity with the Kadamba
script of the fifth and sixth centuries of the Christian era.
Each of the two plates contains three lines, they are in
perfect state of preservation, and the letters are so distinct
as to leave no room for doubt as to their decipherment.

6

Google
42 NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

They begin each with the oft-repeated Buddhist formula :
“Ye dhamma hetuppabhava tesam hetu....... etc.” but
differ in the text of the portions that follow’ This will be
evident from the transliteration that follows of the two
plates and their translations : —

Jat Plate,

(1) Ye dhamma hetuppabhavé tesam hetum tathagato
Gha tesafi ca yo nirodho evamvadi mahasamano ti

(2) Catvaro iddhipada catvaro sammappadhana catvaro
satipatthana catvdri ariyasaccdni catuvesarajjani paii-
cindriyani pafica cakkhuni ca

(3) Asaddharanani sattee bojjhanga ariya atthangiko
maggo navalokuttara dhamma dasa balani cuddasa
biiddhafifiani attharasa buddhadhamma ti.
Translation.

(1) The Tathagata spoke of the cause of things which
are sprung from cause. The Great Recluse also
spoke of the ceasing to be in respect of those very
things.

(2) The four items of miracle, the four aims of right
exertion, the four modes of the practice of mindful-
ness, the scheme of four for the arrangement of truths,
the four supreme acquisitions, the five controlling
faculties and the five eye-sights.

(3) Extraordinary are the seven constituents of bodhi,
the noble tfold way (of Progress), the nine tran-
scendental states, the ten Powers, the fourteen (inner
urges) of Buddha, the eighteen virtues of Buddha.

2nd Plate.

(1) Ye dhammé hetuppabhava (te) sa (m) hetu tatha-
gato aha teeafi ca yo nirodho evambadi mahasamano
ti iti pi 80 bhagavd araham

66 Ep. Ind. V. p. 101 ff. For a more correct reading and inter-
pretation, see Finot, “Un nouveau document sur le Buddhisme
birman” J.4., XX. Jwillet-Aowt, 1912, p. 121 ff.

Google
EARLY TRACES OF BUDDHISM IN BURMA. 43

(2) Sammé Sambuddho vijjacarana-sampanno sugato
lokavidé anuttaro purisadhamma-sdrathi sattha deva-
manussanam buddho bhagavé ti.

(3) Svakkhato bhagavata dhammo sanditthiko akéliko
ehipassiko opanayiko paccattam veditavvo vififiuhiti.

Translation

(1) The Tathagata spoke of the cause of thinge which
are sprung from cause. The Great Recluse also
spoke of the ceasing to be in respect of those very

thinge. So it goes‘ He the Divine Master is the
Elect worthy of honour

(2) The Supreme Buddha, endowed with self-mastery
and graceful department, well-gone, excelling in the
knowledge of the world, unsurpassed, the guide to
tameable persons, the Teacher of Gods and men, the
Enlightened and Blessed One

(3) Well-propounded by the Master is the Doctrine,
producing effect here and now, having ‘‘come and
see’ for its motto, leading up towards the goal, (and)
to be experienced individually by the wise.

In the first plate there is, besides the well-known for-
mula, an enumeration of 19 categories of Saddhama, evi-
dently from the Abhidhamma, in a progressively numerical
order. These categories are separately alluded to or dis-
cussed in more or less detail, in most of the Abhidhamma
texts ; but it is probably in the Vibhanga, one of the seven
books of the Abhidamma, that these categories, some of
them at least; if not all, are often alluded to and treated
in detail, Thus, to the elucidation of the four iddhipada,
the four satipatthand, the seven bhojjhanga, the four ariya-
saccani, the five indriyani, the four Samappadhana, the
atthangiko maggo, and the dasa (tathagata) balani, the
Vibhanga devotes separate chapters or sections; and at
least in one place it enumerates some of the categories in a
progressively numerical order:

Google
“4 NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

Cattaro satippatthana cattaro sammappadhana cattaro
iddhipada paficindriyani pafica balani satta bhojjhanga ariyo
atthangiko maggo (Rhys Davids, Vibhanga, p. 372).

This plate may, therefore, roughly be said to consist of
a very short synoptical list of some of the contents of the
Vibhanga, a sort of a short note to help the memory or to
serve asa guide to a teacher of the Religion.

The second plate begi the same manner as the
first ; and to any student of Pali canonical literature it
will be evident that the first line is followed in the second
and the third by the well-known praise of the Triratna.
We may find it, for example, in the Pufifiabhisandavagga
of the Anguttara Nikaya,"' a book of the Sutta Pitaka, where
the continuity of the text in two lines, as in our plate, is
rather broken by an introductory and a concluding sentence
in each case. This will be clearly evident from the extract
we reproduce from the Anguttara:

Idha bhikkave ariyasdvako Buddhe aveccappasddena
samannagato hoti—iti pi so bhagava araham sammésam-
buddha ara nasampanno sugato lokavidi anuttaro
purisadamma sarathi sattha deoamanussanam buddho bhaga-
vati. Ayam bhikkhave pathamo pufifidbhisando kisala-
bhisando—sukhaya samavattati.

Puna ca param bhikkhave ariyasavako dhamme avecca-
ppasadena samannagato hoti—svakkhato bhagavata dhammo
sanditthiko akaliko ehipassiko opanayiko paccattam vedi-
tabbo vififuhifi. Ayam bhikkhave dutiyo punfabhisando
kusalabhisando...sukhaya samvattati.

Bawbawgyi Pagoda Stone Inscription

The most important Pali inscriptions of Hmawza were
discovered not earlier than twelve years later. In 1910-11
while clearing a small debris round the base of the Baw-
baweyi pagoda were unearthed two fragments of a stone
ion in Pali ; the third fragment completing the ins-

67 P.TS., Edn. Vol. Il. 52. p. 56

Google
EARLY TRACES OF BUDDHISM IN BURMA 45

cription was found the year after close by the same spot.
The inscription was edited and translated for the first time
by Prof. L. Finot in his very interesting article already
referred to."*

Text

(1) (Samphusa) na samphus (i) tattam vedanakkhando
safifidkhando sankkharakhando.

(2) ......ditthivipphanditam ditthiayam vuccati chalaya-
tanapaccaya phasso tattha katam (a) (pha) ssa paccayd
vedana lyam ceta(s) i (kam).

x3) Safifiojanam ga (ho) patilaho patiggaho abhiniveso
paradmaso Mummago......

Translation

(I) ......(the contact), the fact of coming into contact,
the vedanakkhandha, the saffiakkhandha, the sankkha-
rakhandha (i. e. the three khandhas or aggregates, viz,
sensation, perception, and confectior (2) Quarrels of opi-
nion, this is what people call opinion or difthi- Touch
comes from the six organs of sense, What is the sensation
which is derived from touching. That which is in thought...
(3) Chain, fever, inclination, contagion, bad path.

Evidently the next is something of the sort of a dis-
connected note of some of the essentials of Buddhist
psychology. That it is an extract from a canonical text,
there can be no doubt, and Prof. Finot suggested” that it
might probably be an extract, not necessarily word for word,
from the Dhammasangani, a book of the Abhidhamma,
while M. Charles Duroiselle pointed it out’? to be an
extract from the Vibhanga, another book of the same
pitaka. That the subject of the text of our inscription
concerns itself directly with those portion of the Dhamma-
sangani which deal with the questions katame dhamma
kusalé and katame dhammé akusala must needs be admi-

68 An, RASB., 1924, p. 22. 69 Finot—op. cit
yo An. RASB., 1924, p. 22.

Google
46 NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

tted, but nowhere in the Dhammasangani the subject is pre-
sented in the way we have in the inscription. Duroiselle’s
suggestion seems rather to be more precise, though in that
case also the text of the inscription does not follow that of
the Vibhanga. There in the first article of the Paccayacca-
tukka section of the chapter on Paccaya Karavibhanga, we
have a systematic classification and explanation of what is
called akusala dhamma. In that connection is explained
what is avijj@ and next i duated order, wha!
sankhara derived from‘avij j@na derived from sankhara
nama derived from vififidna, chalayatanam derived from
nama, phassa derived from chaldyatanam, vedana derived
from phassa, tafiha derived from vedand, upadanam derived
from tafiha and so on and so forth, till we finally come to
what is jaramaranam.” But what is most logically and
systematically set forth in the Vibhanga is treated in a most
cursory and careless manner in the stone inscription without
any logic whatsoever in the system of arrangement. Thus in
the very first line is set forth contact and the fact of coming
into contact (samphusitattam) which, in the Vibhanga, is
explained in connection with touch (phasso) that is derived
from the six organs of sense. Next we get the three
khandas or aggregates which are set forth in the Vibhanga
in connection with the explanation of ndma that is derived
from vififidna. The reference (2nd line) to opinion (difthi)
or quarrels of opinion (difthivipphanditam) comes only in
connection with the elucidation of upadanam that is derived
from tafiha. The references to touch (phasso) that is
derived from the six organs of sense (chaldyatana) and to
sensation (vedand) that is derived from touch seem, how-
ever, to be in order. But the list (3rd line) counting chain,
fever, inclination, etc. in a seri set forth in the Vibhanga
only in connection with the elucidation of what is called
upaddanam that is derived from tafhd. It is thus evident
that the text of our fragments is nothing but a cursory and

71 Vibbaiga (P.TS., Edn), pp. 144-45-

Google
EARLY TRACES OF BUDDHISM IN BURMA 47

indifferent note, loosely arranged, of an important article
of the Vibhanga. What purpose this or such notes served
or for whom these were intended is somewhat difficult to
ascertain; but, as I have already suggested, it is likely that
these short epigraphs, by way of very short notes of essen-
tials of the Religion, served the purpose of a guide book,
a book of points to help the memory, for those preachers
of the faith who early took upon themselves the task of
evangalizing the land of Suvannabhimi.

A Gold-leaf Pali Manuscript

But the most important record hitherto discovered of
Pali Buddhism in Lower Burma is a book of twenty leaves
of gold, exactly of the nature of old palm-leaf manus
of India, each inscribed on one side, placed wi two
covers of the same metal. This unique record also we
discovered at Hmawza, in 1926 last; but unfortunately it
has not yet been edited and translated, and the text is not,
therefore yet available to scholars. A very short notice of
the find and the contents of the record were, however,
published in the Archaeological Survey Report of India for
1926-27" which I may, to some extent, supplement here
by my personal knowledge of the record.

The record begins in the first page with an extract in
Pali giving the important and very well-known Buddhist
formula of the chain of causation or paficca samuppada
sutta. This is followed by long extracts, not connected
together by any inherent meaning and argument, from all
the Three Pitakas—the Sutta, Vinaya and Abhidhamma;
and is concluded on the last page with the no less well-
known enumeration of the qualities of the Master, beginn-
ing with ‘itipi so bhagavd araham sammasambuddha.
etc. The concluding portion i.e. the one recording the
pri of the Triratna presente nothing original or interest-
ing is to be found everywhere in the canonical literature

72 An, RAS, 1920-27, p. 200.

Google
8 NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

of the Buddhists, more so because we have had already a
reproduction of the formula in one of the Maunggan gold
plates discussed above, and referred to, for example, in
the Anguttara Nikaya (vol. II, 52, p. 56). The most im-
portant portion of the manuscript, however, is the Paticca
sammuppéda sitta round which all interest must centre ;
but owing to the present state of our very meagre and im-
perfect knowledge of the record, it is difficult to hazard a
discussion for which we must wait till the official publica-
cation of the record. So far as | am now ina position
to ascertain, the text of the siitta of the MSS. is possible
to be traced in the very first section of the Mahavagga of
the Vinaya Pitaka (I. p. 1 ) as well as in the Pali Samyutta
(IL, p. 1) of the Satta Pitaka. In the latter, the text of
the Paficcasamuppadam includes not only the desana@
which consists of the Paficcasamuppada sutta itself and
its nirodha, but also its vibhanga; in the Mahdvagga how-
ever, it is only the desand and its nirodha that are set forth.
The Hmawza text, so far as | have been able to make out,
cont of the Sitta itself well its nirodha, but no
vibhanga ; and the text t as we find it in the Pali
canon.”

73 The Pratitye Samutpida Satra in its Prakrit and Sanskrit
versions is mentioned in very ancient texts. ‘The earliest in Prakrit
can be found in the Kharosthi Inscription on a Kurram Casket edited
by Sten Konow (Ci, Vol. I. Pt, I. no, IXXX); and the latest in
Sanskrit can be found in a Brahmi Inscription on two Nalanda bricks
edited by Dr. N. P. Chakravarty Ep. Ind, Vol. 23.........) For a
very valuable and interesting note on the Sitre, see Ep. Ind.
Vol. 33.. “A Note on the Pratitye Samupida Satra” by
Dr. P. C. Bagchi, The result of Dr. Bagchi’s analysis as to the
chronology of the texts as quoted in inscriptions and Chinese texts
is set forth as follows: Kurram Insc. text (consisting of Pratitye alone)
—<. 100 A.D,; Satrilambara text (consisting of Pratitya and Nirodha)
—c. 100 A.D; Kasia Insc. text (consisting of Pratitya and Nirodha)
—c. 450-75 A.D.; Chinese Samyutta text (consisting of Pratitya and

Google

EARLY TRACES OF BUDDHISM IN BURMA 9

Another gold-leaf inscribed with characters exactly
similar to the one just considered and similarly dateable in
the fifth or sixth centuries A.D. was recovered in 1928-29
from the Kyundawza village near Hmawza. The plate
broken in the process of cleaning in seven fragments
(total length about 8% inches) bears an inscription in
two lines. Itisin Pali and contains the first part of the
well-known Buddhist formula in praise of the Buddha
already discussed above in connection with the second
Maunggan gold-plate (line 2 and last portion of line 1).
Though in the latter portion of the second line the
letters are not so distinct, the inscription which runs as
follows can easily be read without any difficulty :

Ist line: Iti pi so bhagava araham sammasambuddho
vijjacaranasampanno sugato lokavidai anut-
taro purisa (dhammasarathi sattha)

2nd line: devamanussinam buddho bhagava ti’*

Vibbange—qr4 A.D.; Nalanda Insc. text consisting of Pratitya and
Vibbariga) c. 520 A.D.; and now the Hmawza Inscription text (consist-
ing of the Paticca and Nirodba, in Pali)—c. 500 A.D.

74 “The formula which is in praise of the Buddha, is a
stereotyped one occurring in the Vindya and Sutta Pitakas. The Pyus
appear to have had a predilection for copying short extracts from these
wwo Pitakas especially from the Abbidbamma, on gold and silver
plates, which were enshrined within pagodas, as well as on terracotta
plaques and stones.”—Duroiselle, An. R.ASI., 1928-29, pp. 108-9.

In the same Report (p. 107), Durvisele informs us of the dis-
covery of some terracotta tablets from a mound at Pyogingyi-Kon
bearing effigies of the Buddha on the obverse. The reverse of some
of these contains short extracts from the Abbidbamma. One tablet,
of which only the lower half remains, contains on the obverse a short
inscription. All these epigraphs are in the self-same Kannada-Telugu
script of the 6th-7th century A.D, The short inscription just men-
tioned, is an extract from the Abbidbamma and quite legible:

(adbi) patipaccayo anantare paccayo

7

Google
5° NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

What these Pali Inscriptions prove?

Whatever be the textual consideration of the epigraphs
discussed above, they would hardly affect the general
deductions that we are even now in a position to make
with regard to the position of Theravada Buddhism in
Old Prome. And these deductions are easily made. |
have already hinted at the purpose these records probably
served, and need not repeat it here. All these records
were inscribed in a familiar script, long known to our
epigraphists as the Kadamba script, of the fifth and sixth
centuries of the Chri era. This script was used in the
records of the Kadambas and early Calukyas, and was
prevalent in the ancient Kuntala (Kanarese district) and
Andhra (comprising the valleys of the Kren& and the
Godavari) regions. The affinity of the Hmawza script
with the Kadamba script is obvious, but it seems thet an
evident resemblance may also be found with that used
in the records of the Ikevaku kings found at Nagarjuni-
konda” and Jaggayyepeta,”* both in the Krena valley, and
paleographically dated in the third century. The fact is
that the Hmawza script belongs to the south-Indian variety
of the Brahmi script current in the Andhra-Kuntala region,
and is paleeographically dateable in about the fourth and
fifth centuries of the Christian era. The language of the
above records, we have already seen, is Pali; and they
relate themselves to the doctrines of Theravada Buddhism.

The extract is probably from the Patthana or the 7th Book of the
Abbidbamma, Another tablet contains an extract which appears to be
from the Dhammasangani, the first book of the Abbidhamma. It
may be read as follows:

Kusalé (dhamma aku)

Sala dhamma avyak (ca)

dhamma.
75 An, RSLE., 1916, p. 92; 1927, pp. 71-74; Ep. Ind.,
7 ASSL, 1. pp. rro-111; Rates LX and LXIL.

Google
EARLY TRACES OF BUDDHISM IN BURMA. 5

We can, therefore, safely conclude in the light of
what we have discussed above, that (i) Buddhism of
the Theravada variety was introduced in Old Prome, it
is more correct to say, was already an established r

at least as early as the fifth century A.D. ; (ii) Pali
language of Theravada was known and understood in at
least the capital city, by a certain section at least, of the
people (iii) Pali canonical texts were studied in their
doctrinal and most abstruse aspects (iv) and finally, the
original home from where this Buddhism was introduced
in the old city of Prome was evidently the Andhra-Kuntala
region of South India, from such centres as Ami i.
Nagarjunikonda, Kaficipuram and Kaveripattanam where
Theravada Buddhism during these centuries had established
famous and flourishing strongholds. It is thus definitely
proved that Theravada Buddhism which in Burma to-day
is of the Ceylonese form was originally introduced not from
Ceylon but from South India, where in the time of the
celebrated Chinese pilgrim I-ching (671-95) ‘all followed
the Sthavira nikaya though there existed a few adherents
of other nikayas also’.”” In fact, it was not till the middle
of the twelfth century that Ceylon came to play any im-
portant role in the history of Buddhism in Burma. It was
in 1167 that Panthagu, the then Primate of the Burmese
kingdom, chose Ceylon as his refuge, and in 1180 Uttarajiva,
the Primate who had succeeded Panthagu returned from
a pilgrimage to Ceylon as the “First Pilgrim of Ceylon’’.
In 1190 Capata, Uttarajiva’s disciple, earned the title of the
“Second Pilgrim of Ceylon’’, and on his return tried to
convert the whole realm to the Ceylonese form. These
missions and intercourses coupled with Capata’s attempts
to Ceylonise Burmese Buddhism led to the gradual pre-
dominance of Ceylonese Buddhism in Burma and the wip-
ing out of even the memory of the original source. But

7, Takakusu, It-sing’s Records of the Buddbist Religion,
p. xxiii-xxiv.

Google
52 NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

to this chapter of the history of the religion in Burma we

shall have occasion to turn later on.

But it is somewhat curious to find that in the whole
range of Pali commentaries and chronicles composed in
Ceylon during the fifth, sixth and seventh centuries, there
is nowhere any mention of the old kingdom or capital of
Prome which, as testified to by the Pali inscriptions and
Buddhist sculptures and monuments, was an important
centre where Theravada Buddhism flourished. There in
the Ceylonese chronicles and in the huge mass of commen-
tarial literature incidental references to places made well-
known by their association with Buddhism are but numer
ous; we might, therefore, reasonably expect to find a
reference to this old kingdom in the Mahavamea or at least
in the Cullavamsa, but we are disappointed. May be, the
place has been mentioned in some name which has not yet
been identified; or as the religion of Prome, as we have
suggested was not introduced from Ceylon and had conse-
quently nothing to do with their country the chroniclers and
commentators did not feel inclined to give it a place in
their works. It may also be accounted for by the secular
hostility during all these centuries between the natives
of Ceylon and the Indians of the South, north of the Straits,
which naturally disposed the Ceylonese authors to ignore
the work of their enemies.

(To be continued.)

Google
MISCELLANY

Date of the Earliest Sanskrit Inscription
of Campa.

Dr. Dines CHANDRA SIRCAR

The famous Vo-chaiih Rock inscription was edited by
Bergaigne’ and commented upon by Finot.? It has been
re-edited by Dr. R. C. Majumdar in his Champa.’ It has
been pointed out that several lines at the beginning of the
record are lost; that the inscription, composed in Sanskrit,
may be referred, on palaeographic grounds, to the second
or third century A.D. ; and that there are two verses in
Vasantatilakd metre in the record the rest of which is in
Prose‘.

It seems to me that palaeography has misled scholars
in determining the date of the Vo-chath inscription. The
language, style and the metre used in the record prove, in
my opinion, that the inscription is later—at least not earlier
than the fourth century A.D.

Ie is known to all students of Indian epigraphy that al-
most all Indian records (both of kings and private persons),
earlier than the first century A.D., are written in Prakrit.
Sanskrit was not in general use even in the second century
A.D. This century, however, offers us a number of ins-
criptions written in Prakrit mixed with Sanskrit, and also
a few records like the Junagadh Sanskrit record of Rudra-
daman (c. 130—50 A.D.) which points to the victory of

1 Notices et Extraits de Manuscripts de la Bibliotheque
Nationale, etc., tome 27, 1€r© partie fascicule 20, N° 20, p. 191.

2. BEFEO., XV, No. 2, p. 3-

3. RC. Majumdar, Anc. Ind. Colonies in the Far East, |,
Lahore, 1927, Book III, pp. 1.

4 Ibid, px.

Google
4 DINES CHANDRA SIRCAR

Sanskrit over the inscriptional Prakrit in some quarters
of western and north-western India. Generally speaking,
Sanskrit began to gradually oust Prakrit from the field of
epigraphy in that part of India about the second century
A.D. ; but the victory was not complete before the fourth
century. Prakrit lost the field in South Indian epigraphy
only about the middle of the fourth century A.D. These
points have been fully discussed in my paper, Inacriptional
Evidences relating to the Development of Classical Sanskrit.*
Now, which part of India was responsible for in-
troducing the fashion of composing records in an Indian
language in Far Eastern countries like Campa? Even if
we believe that the colonists belonged to the western and
north-western parts of India, we must admit that the Vo-
chafh inscription is considerably later than the middle of
the second century A.D., because its diction cannot be
compared with any Indian inscription in Sanskrit earlier
than the Junagadh inscription (150 A.D.) of Rudradaman.
If the colonists belonged to Eastern India, the date of our
record should be later, as there is no proof that Sanskrit
became popular in that part of the country before the rise
of the Guptas (320 A.D.). If, however, it is believed that
the colonists went from near the mouths of the Krena
and the Godavari, the Vo-chafih record can hardly be
earlier than the closing years of the fourth century A.D.,
because Prakrit was the language of inscriptions in that
part of India as late as the middle of the fourth century*.

5 LHQ, December, 1938.

6. D.C Sircar, Successors of the Sitavibanas in Lower Deccan,
Calcutta University, 1939, pp. 1664. Te must be noted that the
cirea 4oo AD. (Mojumdar, op. cit., p. 3) refers to king Bhadra-
varman as Dherma-mabzraje, This is a typical South Indian style
(Sircar, op. cit, p. 171 m) Possibly the Cho Dith record too
should be placed several decades later.

Google
DATE OF THE EARLIEST SANSKRIT INSCRIPTION 55

Again, when were classical metres, like Vasantatilaka,
extensively used in Indian epigraphs? Inscriptions prove
that such metres were certainly not popular or in general
use in India before the rise of the Guptas.’. The Vo-chath
inscription which contains at least two verses in Vasanta-
tilaka metre, can therefore be hardly assigned to a period
earlier than first half of the fourth century A.D. It may
be later ; but certainly not much earlier.

7. For the date of Pataijali who gives examples of classical
metres in the Mahabhisya, see my paper in Ind. Hist. Quart.,
December, 1938.

Google
NOTICES OF BOOKS

Social and Physical Anthropology of the Nayadis of
Malabar: By A. Aiyappan, M.A. (Bulletin of the Madras
Government Museum. New Series. General Section,
Vol. Il., No. 4.). Madras, 1937. pp iii+1 to 141. Price,
Rs. 3-20.

Mr. Aiyappan is to be congratulated on the publica-
tion of this nice monograph on an interesting untouchable
caste of the extreme south of India. The authorities of
the Madras Government Museum have also maintained
their tradition of unstinted support and steady encourage-
ment of anthropological research ushered in by Thurston.
So long Indian ethnography has been devoted to the study
of its tribal population as a result of which we have a
number of excellent monographs on the tribes of the
Nilgiri Hills, Assam and the Chota Nagpur Plateau.
The Universities of Calcutta, Bombay and Lucknow have
recently undertaken the study of a number of other tribes.
But unfortunately the detailed study of individual castes
have so long been systematically neglected by both scho-
lars and institutions. Three years ago Mr. N. A. Thoothi
published his voluminous account of the Vaishnavas of
Gujrat in which he dealt with the different sects of this
religious order which is composed of Hindu castes. Mr.
Aiyappan’s account of the Nayadis is a true caste-mono-
graph written on the lines of tribal monographs and so can
be styled as first of its order. In selecting a group on the
border lines of caste organization Mr. Aiyappan has put
the anthropological theorist under a deep debt of gratitude
by presenting him with a vivid picture of the life and
manners of “the meanest of the mean among the Hindus, - - -
who pollute by their approach even the Pariah.”

The book consists of three parts. The first part, which
deals with culture, gives a fairly detailed account of the
habitat, ethnic environment, material culture, social organi-

Google
NOTICES OF BOOKS 57

zation, ceremonial life, and religion and magic of the
caste. This part is brought to an end with a very useful
account of the measures adopted by different bodies to
improve the condition of the Nayadis and their response
to such outside stimuli. The second part delineates the
physical characters of the people, while the third one con-
tains the records of actual measurements, a glossary of
vernacular words used in the book and the index. The
book is brought to an end with twelve plates including a
map of the area inhabited by the Nayadis.

The Nayadis are a short, dolichocephalic, platyrrhine
people with an extremely hypsicephalic head. Their head
hair is flat (low), wavy and deep black in colour. Com-
pared with their neighbours they are “midway between
the hill tribes and the castes of the plains.” According to
our author “though the figures do not reveal it sufficiently,
there is present among the Nayadis a very small percentage
of individuals relatively shorter in stature and darker in
complexion and with broader face than the rest, closely
resembling the Veddoid primitive.”

The Nayadis now occupy the three southern taluke of
the Malabar District and the northernmost part of the Cochin
State adjacent to Ponnanij taluk. According to our author
they live on the outskirts of the deciduous forests, on the
lower slopes of the Ghats and their spurs and from the dis-
tribution of the caste it appears that the trend of migration
had been from the east towards the west. This was
brought about by a movement of the peoples from the plains
of the west towards the forests of the east owing to econo-
mic pressure. Thus, the Nayadis came to live among the
Hindu castes. Their number according to the Census
returns of 1931 is 709 only, but according to our author the
144 Nayadis of Travancore State are really Ulladans. So
the actual number comes to 565 only.

According to Dr. Gundert the word Nayadi has two
meanings: (1) @ hunter, and (2) ‘the lowest caste of jungle
dwellers ordered to retire seventy-four steps from the high
castes.’ The latter meaning fixes the social position of the

8

Google
58 NOTICES OF BOOKS

caste at the lowest level in the area under consideration.
Above them are the Cherumans, Iravans, and Nayars who
pollute the Namputiri Brahmin from a distance of 64 ft.,
32 ft., and 7ft., respectively. “‘It is said that, in order to
purify oneself after being polluted by a Nayadi, one should
bathe in seven streams and seven tanks, and then let out
a few drops of blood from a little finger."” This clearly
indicates the attitude of orthodox Hinduism towards this
wretched group of humanity.

Begging forms the main occupation of the caste and is
the chief source of its livelihood. ‘The Nayadis live chiefly
on what they receive as alms on various occasions from the
rest of the Hindu community. It is the privilege and right
of the Nayadis to beg and it is the duty of the others to
give."’ Charity has been woven into the fabric of Hindu
faith and according to our author, in the South, charity to
particular castes such as Nayadis, Pulluvans and others,
is more meritorious than to ordinary beggars (pichchakkars).
“It ia a sin not to give privileged beggars. just as it
is a sin not to give to Brahmins.’ The ordinary beggars
(pichchakkars) have no right to demand charity but have
to depend on and rouse the sympathy of the rich. Thus
the Nayadis occupy a privileged position even in their
miserable existence. There are special days and occasions
on which they receive charity. Thus, on birth-days and at
the conclusion of death-rituals high caste people make gifts
to them. When a person falls seriously ill gifts are
made to the Nayadi to ward off death. These are his
main sources of livelihood at present.

It has been stated that the word Nayadi means ‘hunter.’
In the Keralotpatti hunting is mentioned as the profession
of the Nayadis while in the Nayattuvidhi, an ancient
treatise on hunting, they are spoken of as “‘friends who
stand at hand" at the time of hunting. In a Portuguese
Manuscript of about 1676 A.D. they are referred to as &
caste of hunters who have no ther occupation and who
“are obliged to accompany the Naire, Gentio and Christian
hunters."" Welsh in his Military Reminiscences (1730)

Google
NOTICES OF BOOKS 59

tefers to exchange of jungle products for necessities of life
between the Nayadis and the peoples of the plains. He
also writes about their manufacture of rude baskets and
ropes for sale and their skinfulness in scouring the jungles.
Visecher (1743) also speaks of them as hunters who live on
the flesh of wild beasts supplemented by herbs and roots
#0 much so that there were persons among them who had
never tasted rice. Thus, up to the middle of the 18th
century they appear to have been hunters and collectors of
roots and fruits and we have no mention of their
begging hal But at the beginning of the 19th
century Buchanan (1803) perhaps records for the first time
that the Nayadis chiefly subsist on begging besides working
as beaters in hunting and as watchers of crops. Lt.
Connor in 1833 wrote that the Nayadis depend on charity
while in Pharoah’s Gazetteer (1855) they are characterised
as beggars by birth and trade. Thus from the beginning
of the 19th century they are characterised as an worthless
set of vagabonds living on charity. This transformation of
the Nayadis is ascribed by Mr. Aiyappan to “‘the rigidity
of the forest laws, and the Arms Act and the difficulty of
making a living by chase” which forced them to give up
their ancestral occupation and become beggars. This
was further accelerated by increase of population in the
plains leading to cultivation of forest land which deprived
the Nayadis of their natural environment and the basis of
their economic life. This may, however, account for their
giving up the old mode of subsistence but it does not at
the same time supply sufficient grounds for their adoption
of beggary as a profession. Mr. Aiyappan has not also
tried to give any reason for the absence of any attempt on
the part of the Nayadis to move further into the interior of
the forest-clad hills where they could have easily practised
their previous mode of living. In other parts of India
whenever the habitat of a forest tribe is attacked by the
dwellers of the plains it either moves further into the inte-
rior or adopts the more improved economic methods of the
trespassers and therewith fight against them. Moreover,

Google
60 NOTICES OF BOOKS.

the position of the Nayadis is of a peculiar nature. They
are neither an order of religious mendicants nor a group
of common beggars who have taken to this means of live-
lihood owing to indigent circumstances as the pichchakkars.
They form a caste of professional beggars, secure in their
privileged position owing to association with the religious
beliefs and customs of the higher caste Hindus. How they
attained this privileged position has not been pointed out.
In other parts of India such privileges are enjoyed by the
Brahmins mainly and other orders of religious mendicants
together with outcaste Brahmins. But in the South, it
appears, a number of low castes enjoy this privilege along
with the Brahmins and other religious orders. The tradi-
tional genetic relation of the Nayadis with the Brahmins as
well as their midway position between the higher castes
and the lower castes and tribes, both physically and cultural-
ly, may give us a clue to their real origin. The case of the
Agradaniya Brahmins of Bengal is suggestive in this
connection.

The Nayadis live in small settlements of three or four
huts away from the domiciles of other castes. They build
thatched huts with mud walls on raised plinths of beaten
earth. Every settlement has a mannu which is a sacred spot
under a big tree where a number of blocks of stone link
the living with the d and the supernatural.

The social organization of the Nayadis is very simple.
“Each kinship and family group have their area (desam) for
begging clearly delimited by will-marked boundaries. The
owner of a begging division mortgages or sells his right in
the area in times of need.” Besides these economic
groupings, they are also divided into number of patrilineal
illams (house) or kuttam (horde) which correspond to the
tarvad of the other castes. The illam is an exogamous
body and its members may be found either in one settle-
ment or in a number of villages separated by considerable
distance. There is some difference between the social
status of the different illams. Each illam has a name of
its own, some of which are derived from place-names.

Google
NOTICES OF BOOKS 61

The Nayadis “usually marry cross-cousins and only in
their absence classificatory cross-cousins......... Remarriages
are rare, widows being usually taken over by the brothers
of the deceased husbands.” The last part of the preceding
sentence is not however clear. Is it a mere case of mainte-
nance without sexual intimacy or both without any ceremo-
nial function? On page 55 the author states that the
widows ussually remarry and on page 58 he refers to the
custom of levirate in Walluvanad taluk and its absence in
Palghat taluk. Thus, there is some contradiction between
the evidence of the genealogical tables and abstract state-
ment of marriage customs, which have not been accounted
for.

‘The instance of transference of wife to a parallel cousin
recorded on page 40 may be the effect of general rules of
divorce and remarriage and do not show a new custom.
The author has not unfortunately recorded which of the
cousins is elder, as it would have given us an opportunity
to test the arguments in favour of senior levirate put for-
ward on page 58.

Marriage is a common incident in the life of a Nayadi.
Mr. Aiyappan refers to obligatory cross-cousin marriage
but does not give particulars about its working and the
degree of compulsion, nor does he mention whether both
the types of cross-cousin marriage occur or only one type.
He, however, records an actual case of marriage with the
mother’s brother's daughter but as to the other type there
is no reference. Betrothal often takes palce when the
parties are very young and the author speaks of pre-marital
and even pre-puberty sexual union between prospective
brides and bridegrooms. The bride-wealth is nominal
when the marriage occurs between the children of brother
and sister and in most cases it ranges between Rs. 2/-
and Rs. 4/- only. The bridegroom's sister plays an im-
portant part in the marriage rites and no Nayadi marriage
is possible without her.

The mortuary practices of the Nayadis differ in the differ-
ent taluks owing to difference in the degree of absorption of

Google
62 NOTICES OF BOOKS

Hindu culture. Thus in the Ponnani taluk burial is prac-
tised while in Walluvanad cremation is the rule. They
strongly believe in the survival of the dead. The spirit of
the deceased is supposed to move about till it is ‘housed’
in the mannu either on the 15th day after death or at the
conclusion of the first year. A piece of stone or sometimes
a rough representation in wood is set up in the mannu at
this time with offerings of food. .

The religion of the Nayadis consists of worship of the
gods and the ancestors. Their ritual attitude to both the
categories is practically the same. Both are represented
in the mannu with pieces of stone—bigger pieces for the
gods and the smaller ones for the ancestors. ‘The ances-
tors though sacred, are intermediate between the gods and
living men. Gods are universally worshipped and are
common to all, while the ‘elders’ who were members of a
particular kinship group only, are not paid special regard
by outsiders, except that in a very few instances the spirit
of a particularly brilliant hunter or magician is worshipped
by a larger group than this now kin.” Maladaivam (the
god of the hills), Kali (the famous Hindu goddess) and
Chattan are some of the more important deities of
the Nayadis, who are worshipped in the mannu.
They also believe in a Supreme God who is sometimes
identified with the sun but he is not worshipped on any
occasion though he is invoked at times of difficulty and
oaths are taken in his name. There are shamans who
officiate in the sacred rites but it is not clearly mentioned
who act as shamans. The Nayadis ‘‘do not share the
Hindu concepts of rebirth, hell, heaven and the Hindu
theory of Karma."’ The higher castes attribute to them
the knowledge of powerful black magic and this belief is
of some economic value to the Nayadis who are, as a
result, sometimes employed to watch gardens against
thieves or to repel attacks of pests.

In conculsion, we welcome this well-informed and
well-written monograph on an untouchable caste about
which the anthropologists have very little idea, and con-

Google
NOTICES OF BOOKS 63

gratulate Mr. Aiyappan for treading on a new path in the
history of ethnography in India.

New Catalogus Catalogorum: A complete and up-to-date
Alphabetical Register of Sanskrit and Allied Works and
Authors. Published under the Authority of the University
of Madras. Provincial fasciculus. Madras 1937.

It is a happy sign of the times that Indian scholars have
of late been engaged in research based on real and inten-
sive study of Mss some of which have seen the light of day
but many are, and will remain, embeded in the archives of
Mss. collections. Aufrecht's Catalogus Catalogorum, the
encyplopaedic Ms. bibliography and index which has helped
and inspired Oriental research for more than three decades
is badly in need of being supplemented with accounts of
numerous Mss. that have since come to light. The Madras
University is to be heartily congratulated on its undertaking
this much-needed task. The provsional fasciculus which
was published some months ago bears ample evidence of
the earnest endeavours of the band of scholars working
under the guidance of MM. Prof. S. Kuppuswami Sastri
who was achieved the distinction of organising a shool
(sampradéya) of competent and sincere researchists in the
different depertmetns of Indology. The Oriental scholar
shall have to be thankful to the Editorial Board as much
for the new light thrown on comparatively well-known works
and authors (e.g. the Akarddinighanfu, Akélajalada and
Aghoragivacarya) and on presentation of new items of
textual criticism (e.g. under Agastyasamhita and the
Agnipurdna) as for the new entries which, so far as the present
Part is concerned, are at least as numerous as the old ones.
While appreciating the magnitude of this “stupendous cul-
tural task" that the Board has undertaken and thanking it
for its creditable achievement, one would like to drow its
attention to a few important points. Unnecessary duplica-
tion (e.g. on Akgobhyatirtha, Akandarthadipika, Agaravi-

Google
64 NOTICES OF BOOKS

noda, Akgapada) which in several cases are verbatim reprints
from Aufrecht’s work, could easily have been dispensed with.
The mispagination (pp. 9-16) is regrettable printing. Some
of the misprints, not all of which are noted in the appended
errata (e.g. on p. I under Agastya, MM. Gananath Sen
has been shown as MM. Ganganath Sen) are somewhat
confusing. The tendency to overburden a work which is
primarily meant for the antiquarian with entries of very
late or modern works of questionable value (e.g. the
Ambubodhini and the Sahityoprakééa of Akgaya Kumar
Vidyavinoda) and with entries of many unimportant
works of a particular province (e.g. the Agastydgtaka,
Agastyesvarastaka,  Akgaramélikastava, Akgaramalikérya)
should be checked. One hopes that the item No. 5 in the
Preface, viz.—incorporation of works and authors known
through citations alone with appropriate references as far
as possible—should receive its proper share of attention. It
is also to be desired that the names of works obviously
missplet in Mss. be corrected by quiries within brackets
(e.g. Angirakalpa=Angirah kalpa?, Angirapri= Angirah-
Apri2) It is a pity that in some cases the reports of compilers
cof Mes have not been checked. Such is the case with Akala-
bhaskara where the entry is based on what is reported in
R. L. Mitra’s Notices, Vol. VII, p. 36, the work really treat-
ing of impure periods of the year in general, and not merely
of the intercalary months. This has presumably been due
to lack of co-ordination. Attention may also be drawn to
the need of avoiding a partisan spirit such as has been
done on p. 24 under the Agnismrti and on p. 13 under the
Agastyasamhité. What is wated is an unambigous state-
ment of views when they tend to be unanimous, and, when
necessary, a clear refrence to the views of different scholars,
leaving it to further research to solve the problem. A
suggestion may be offered in this connection. The Editorial
Board will be well-advised in seeking the assistance of
scholars of different provinces who could cheack Mes written
in local scripts, and of those who are authorities on their
respective subjects, so that no subject can go by default.

Google
NOTICES OF BOOKS 65

These are minor defects in a work which has been
begun at the right moment and at the right place and which,
it is hoped, will be carried through in the proper spirit,
and, when completed, will redound to the credit of the
Madras University and will afford the scholarly world all
help and guidance that can be expected of it.

‘Suva PRASAD BHATTACHARYA,

La litterature Chinoise by Basile Alexéiev. Published in the
Annales du Musée Guimet, Paul Geuthner, 12 Rue
Vavin.

The book contains six lectures of which three twere
delivered in the Collége de France and the rest in the
Musée Guimet. The author is a recognised sinological
authority and needs no fresh introduction. The first three
lectures deal with the Chinese literature with special refer-
ence to its ideology, its foreign translations and readers and
the last three with Chinese poetry with special reference
to its ideology, its poetical values and reformist tendencies.
The author tells us that to understand properly the Chinese
literature it is necessary to have an exact idea of the ancient
religions of China, Confucianism and Taoism. These two
religions influenced the ancient literature so well that the
Chinese literature acquired two primary tendencies viz, to
propagate the ‘truth’ and to arouse a sense of beatitude
completely divorced from the reality. Ignorance of these
tendencies has falsified the foreign translations of the an-
cient Chinese works. The Christian and Buddhist transla-
tions of foreign texts into Chinese are also equally bad.
Both these translations are unintelligible to the Chinese and
have never been liked by them. The Buddhist missionaries
in China however before placing the translated texts in the
hands of the Chinese, had given them a well-organised
cult which perfectly responded to the elementary religious
sentiments. This helped the Chinese to understand the
Buddhist texts better than the translations of the

9

Google
66 NOTICES OF BOOKS

Bible to understand which they had no preparation. The
other lectures of M. Alexéiev are illuminating and contain
not only a novel treatment of the Chinese literature but also
a critical estimate of the new tendencies in the contemporary

Chinese literature.
P.C. B.

Krishna-Lila, ou Mystere de |’ Avatar de Krishna, épi-
sode extrait du Mahabhar Traduit et adapté du tamoul,
par Sactivél. Preface de Adrien Juvanon, pp. xii+ 182.
Librarie Orientaliste Paul Geuthner. Paris 1937.

This book is meant for the general public. The author
gives here in outline the legend of Krena—specially the
amorous part of it—on the basis of its Tamil version. No
attempt has been made to utilise the original sources or to
determine the historical position of the Tamil version.
Kyena’s exploits, such as the Vastraharana of the Gopis, have
been described with embarrassing details supplied partly
by the author's own exuberant imagination. Yet Mr.
Juvanon in his preface does not hesitate to connect this
Kygna with the “belles lecons et haute moralité.”” It is
difficult to find what purpose will be served by this book.

B. G.

Archaeological Remains and Excavations at Bairat.
By Daya Ram Sahni. Published by the Department of
Archaeology and Historical Research, Jaipur State, 1937.

Discoveries of the remnants of two Aéokan pillars and
a temple of an entirely new type as well as a monastery,
both erected by the great Buddhist emperor, are some of
the startling results obtained by the late Director-General of
the Archaeological Survey of India and first Director
of Archaeological and Historical Research in Jaipur State
(Rajputana) during the excavations at Bairat in 1936.

Traditionally associated with the Pandava heroes of
the Mahabharata, who passed their thirteenth year of con-

Google
NOTICES OF BOOKS &

cealment at Viratapura, the capital of Virata kings of the
Matsya country, the ancient site of Bairat was visited and
examined by Cunningham in 1864-65 and by his assistant
Mr. Carleylle in 1871-72 and lastly by Dr. D. R. Bhandarkar
in 1909-10. The importance of the site and its former
glory is fully attested by a series of surviving architectural
monuments of the Hindu and Muslim periods.

Raj Bahadur Daya Ram Sahni points out that the famous
so-called Bhabru Rock-Edict of Agoka was found not at
Bhabru but at Bairat itself. So the discovery of other
Aéokan relics at the latter place is not surprising. The
exposed remains are distributed on two distinct platform:
on a hill known as Bijak-ki-pahayi or the “inscription hill”
as it contained the Edict found by Captain Burt in 1840.
The excavations have brought to light the ruins of a brick
monastic establishment on the upper platform. One of the
cells yielded a small pottery jar full of 36 silver coins, eight
of which wrapped in a piece of cloth, were punch-marked
and the other 28 were of Greek and Indo-Greek kings.
According to Sahni the discovery of the coins leads to three
important conclusions, viz., that punch-marked coins con-
tinued to be circulated down to the Ist century A.D. or
even to a later period, that Bairat and the adjoi areas
formed part of the Greek and Indo-Greek dominions and
that the said monastery continued to be in occupation until
about 50 A.D. Other portable antiquites from this area in-
clude terracotta Yakei figures akin to the Mathura speci-
mens and a pilaster.

But diggings in the lower platform revealed the most
important ruin in the form of a circular brick temple with
remains of octagonal columns partly brick and partly wooden
surrounded by a rectangular enclosure wall. “This is the
oldest structural temple and one of those which furnished
models for the numerous rock-cut cave temples of Western
and Eastern India. The nearest approach, both in plan
and design to this newly discovered temple is the caitya
cave of about the Ist century B.C. in the Tulja Lena group
at Junnar."’ That this temple was undoubtedly the work

Google
68 NOTICES OF BOOKS

of Asoka is proved by the find of fragmentary remains of
two pillars in Chunar sandstone with the characteristic
Maurya polish and the Brahmi inscriptions of the Agokan
Period on walls of the temple.

This clearly-printed and well-illustrated monograph is
otherwise interesting reading but for a grave historical error
which has crept into the text. The destruction of the pillars,
opines Sahni, “could not have taken place at such a late date
as the end of the 12th century A.D., when Shihab-ud-Din
Ghori destroyed the Buddhist remains at Sarnath or the 14th
century A.D. when Bakhtiyar Khalji massacred the shaven-
headed Buddhist monks in Behar and Nalanda monasteries."”
History records that Mahammad-i-Bakhtiyar conquered Bihar
about 1197 A.D.

D. P. GHosH.

Swami Sadananda: Pilgrimage to Greater India, pp.
iv+45, 12 pls. with Preface by Dr. Suniti Kumar Chatterjee.

Ibid, Brhattara Bharater Pajaparvan (in Bengali) ix +60,
20 pls.

Ibid, Kamboja (in Bengali) pp. iv +36

Ibid, Campa, pp. iv+28, 8 plates with a foreword by
Jitendra Nath Banerjea.

Ibid. Malay, 1938 pp, ii+38 with a foreword by
Dr. P. C. Bagchi.

Ibid, Suvarnadvipa, 1938, pp. iv+38, 8 plates with a»
foreword by O. C. Gangoly.

This series of small handbooks printed on good paper
with a number of beautiful plates is a record of travels of a
simple Bengali monk of the Daénami sect in the lands of
Indo-China, Indonesia from 1932 onwards. Written in a lively
and animated style with no pretence to scholarly accuracy
or completeness, but inspired by a feeling of intense rever-
ence for our ancestral culture, these sketches should make
an earnest appeal to the large section of our countrymen
who have neither the time nor the opportunity to go to the

Google
NOTICES OF BOOKS 69

more authoritative publications on the subject. It is further
to be hoped that the author's repeated lament about the
neglect of Greater India studies by Indian scholars and even
his shrewd suggestions on many points raised by him in the
course of his descriptions will provoke a greater interest in
scholarly circles in this country than has been the case
heretofore.

In the Pilgrimage to Greater India the author passes in
review the well-known centres of Hindu culture in Cam-
bodia, Java and Bali. He gives short descriptions of Angkor
Thom with the Bayon, Angkor Vat and other buildings of
this group. Coming to Java, he describes some selected
images from the Batavian Museum, his experience of
shadow-plays with the gamelan orchestra at Jogjakarta, and
his impressions of Prambanan and Borobudur. Then
follows his sketch of Bali island containing interesting
notices of funeral ceremonies, feasts and cults as well as
social institutions of the people.

The Brhattara Bharater Pajaparvan (The Cults and Fes-
tivities of Greater India) contains three sections, viz-, gods,
and goddesses, popular amusements, and form of worship,
along with four Appendices. Among the points noticed by
the author are the paucity of linga form of Siva, the com-
plete absence of Radha-Krgna images, the aboriginal cult-
influences, the frequency of Arjuna images and so forth.
Coming to the popular amusements the author gives attrac-
tive sketches of dance and music, of plays (specially
shadow-play) etc. that are in vogue in Java and Bali.
Dealing with the forms of worship, he makes some weighty
but unfortunately short remarks regarding the points of
similarity and contrast between Hindu and Balinese ritual.
These observations derived from the author's intimate
knowledge of Hindu religious ritual have to be carefully
considered by specialists. The same remark applies to
Appendices II and III containing short notices of the mantras
and the mudras that are used by the Balinese priests down
to the present times.

Google
7 NOTICES OF BOOKS

In Kamboja (in Bengali) the author brings together a
number of references to a country and people called by this
name in the Mahabharata, in the Ramayana, the Pura
and so forth. From these he draws a number of inferences
about the early history of Cambodia and its relations with
India. The value of these remarks ised by the
author's neglect to locate the Kambojas of Hindu litera-
ture along with the Sakas and Yavanas on the north-west
frontier.

In Campa, the author after dealing briefly with the race,
language and religion of the Chams, gives a short
their country from the early period of Hindu color
the Annamite conquest. This is followed by a series of
discourses in the course of which the author while paying a
well-deserved tribute to the work of the French School of
the Far East, pleads for a systematic interpretation of the
archaeological and other data from the point of view of the
Hindu éastras. Then follows a short account of Cham
images compared with their Indian counterparts.

Suvarnadvipa, which the author somewhat loosely
equates with Sumatra, is the title of another work in which
e told at some length about the original inhabitants of
land, the Aching, the Bataks, the Minangkabaus and
others. Then follow some disjointed notes on the rise and
fall of the Srivijaya kingdom, which the author identifies
with the Sailendra empire. This identification, it will be
remembered, has recently been questioned on good grounds.

In Malay, the author after tracing the geography and the
ethnology of the people, traces their history from the begin-
ing of Indian colonisation to the advent of Islam. Then
follows a short section on Malacca containing the history of
the kingdom down to the time of Portuguese conquest in
1510. This is followed by short sketches of the history of
Singapore (with a notice of the Raffles Museum) and of
Johore in the 18th century. It is to be regretted that a
number of mistakes has crept into this work.

x

Google
NOTICES OF BOOKS nm

Samadhirajesittra, chaps. VIII, XIX, and XXII.
Edited with Tibetan version, English Translations and Notes
by K. Régamey. The Warsaw Society of Sciences and
Letters. Publications of the Oriental Commission. 1938,
pp. HI.

The publication of a portion of the Samadhiraja came
as a happy surprise to me as I had been working on a ms. of
this siitra found at Gilgit. It is one of the nine major texts
of the Nepalese Buddhists, but its value so far has not been
very much appreciated on account of its prolixity and endless
repetit ions, the sad characteristics of most of the early
. It is really a matter of gratification for us
to find that two distinguished scholars, like Prof. S. Schayer
and Dr. Régamey though living at Warsaw have essayed the
arduous task of editing the whole text overcoming many
handicaps usually encountered by scholars living so far off
from India.

This sitra was better known to the ancients as Candra-
pradipa-satra or Sarvadharmasamatavipajicita-sitra, by which
two titles we generally find references in the early works like
those of Santideva. As the editor Dr. Régamey has utilised
four mss., the Chinese and Tibetan versions of the work and
above all the Tibetan commentaries, there is very little to be
said about the readings of the text. The mss. though
numbering four are generally derived from one archetype
and hence they are not of much value, but the Tibetan
renderings help us in settling the doubtful readings. The
printing of the text in Roman characters does not appeal to
us very much and particularly the gathas in running lines.

The three chapters selected by the editor for giving an
idea of the doctrinal standpoint of the sitra deal with
abh@vasvabhavajfidna, (things are really non-existent);
acintyabuddhadharmanirdesa (inconceivable nature of Bud-
dha-dharmas); and tathagatakaya (the real body of the
Buddha). The editor traces in this sitra not the extreme
Sdnyavada of Nagarjuna but the Siryavade of the Yogacara
School, which posits the pure citta as the ultimate essence.
In chap. XIX, there is nothing of much importance except

Google
7 NOTICES OF BOOKS

that it attempts to magnify the merits of the ‘Samadhi’, the
Principal theme of the work, to an infinite extent. The
editor's observation on the Kaya conceptions based on chap.
XXII, are valuable and are in agreement with mine expressed
in my ‘Aspects of Mahayana Buddhism’. The English render-
ing is quite good and the Sanskrit-Tibetan—Chinese Index is
indeed very useful. The attention given by the editor to
the metres of the gathas and the variant readings deserve
commendation and reveals how much labour and energy has
been devoted by him to make the edition as thorough as
possible. This, of course, has been partly possible for con-
centrating his energies on a very small portion of the werk;
but for us it will be useful as we shall be able to place it in
the hands of our students as a text-book and an ideal edition
of a Buddhist-Sanskrit work.
N. Durr

Google
EXTRACTS FROM THE REPORT OF THE GREATER
INDIA SOCIETY FROM Ist APRIL 1937
TO 31st DECEMBER 1938

General

The Greater India Society completed the eleventh year
of its existence in 1938. The record of the Society's work
during the period under review was on the whole one of
steady progress.

Management

A number of changes took place in the constitution of
the Managing Committee during this period. Dr. U. N.
Ghoshal, Hony. Secretary, being absent from India for
nearly four months (August-October 1938), his place was
temporarily filled by Dr. Nalinaksha Dutt. The Society was
also temporarily deprived of the services of Dr. Kalidas Nag
who visited Australia, New Zealand, and the Philippines
during a short period of four or five months. In November
1938 Mr. N. G. Majumdar, Special Officer for Exploration
for the Archaeological Survey of India, who was for many
years a member of the Managing Committee of the Greater
India Society, lost his life under most tragic circumstances
while exploring the pre-historic antiquities in Sind. The
Managing Committee through the Hony. Secretary duly sent
a message of condolence to the bereaved family of the late
scholar.

During the period under review the Hony. Secretary con-
tinued to act as Editor of the Society's Journal over and
above his usual duties. The constitution of the Journal
Committee remained unchanged.

As in preceding years the important business of the
Committee was disposed of as the occasion arose by circu-
lation among the members.

10

s00gle
REPORT OF THE GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

Office
No change took place in the Office establishment. Mr.
P. K. Sen, Chartered Accountant, again eared the thanks
of the Committee by kindly acting as the Hony. Auditor of
the Society's accounts for the third time in succession.

Members and Subscribers

The number of members on the Society's roll on 31st
December 1938 showed a slight increase. The total number
of subscribers to the Society's Journal reached a higher figure
than in any previous year. While on this subject, the Com-
mittee cannot but convey ite most sincere thanks to the
Provincial Governments of India and the Indian Univer-
sities, to the Director-General of the Archaeological Survey
of India and the Superintendents of different Archaeological
Circles, to the Government Epigraphist for India and his
subordinate officers and to the Governments of Baroda,
Mysore, Travancore, Gwalior and Indore for continued
patronage of the Society’s Journal.

Finance

The closing balance of the Society's accounts on the
31st December 1938 was Rs. 1,148-9-8 as compared with the
opening balance of Rs. 844-0-8 on the Ist April 1937. As
against this favourable state of the Society's finances must be
set its commitment viz., the publication of Dr. Tucci’s
Travels of Tibetan Pilgrims in the Swat Valley which is
atill in the Press. On the receipt side the Committee has
gratefully to acknowledge the grant of Rs. 800/- from the
National Council of Education, Bengal, at the rate of
Rs. 400/- for two successive years, and of Rs. 100/-
from Dr. Narendra Nath Law, one of its most valued
members. The Committee is also indebted to Dr. Bimala
Chum Law for a handsome donation of Rs. 500/-
in support of the Society. During the nineteen months
ended 31st December 1938, receipts under the head ‘Sale
Proceeds of Publications’ amounted to Re. 524-3-9 with
which may be compared the figures for the preceding two

aA

Google
REPORT OF THE GREATER INDIA SOCIETY Ly

years, viz., Re. 415-12-6 (1936-37) and Rs. 543-8-9 (1935-36).
During the period under review subscriptions to the Society's
Journal realised Rs. 353-0-0 as compared with Rs, 181-3-0
for the year 1936-37 and Rs. 229-13-0 for 1935-36. On the
Expenditure side publications formed as in former years
the heaviest item, accounting for Rs. 911-5-0 of which as
much as Rs. 779-7-6 was incurred for cost of three issues of
the Journal. These figures which cover a period of nineteen
months obviously furnish no basis for comparison with the
figures for the previous years. The same observations
apply to the other items of expenditure, such as ‘postal
charges’ and ‘allowance to the staff’ which last includes the
typist’s and proof-reader's charges for the Journal.

Lectures

During the period under notice seven popular lectures
were delivered according to the terms of our agreement with
the National Council of Education, Bengal, under the joint
auspices of the Greater India Society and the National
Council. The Lectures as in former years covered a wide
variety of subjects as will appear from the subjoined list :—
“India in Europe’ (2 lectures) by Dr. Suniti Kumar Chatter-
jee, ‘Institutions of Australia’ (2 lectures) by Dr. Kalidas Nag,
“Cultural Institutions in Philippines” by Dr. Kalidas Nag,
“Mahayanism in Burma’ by Dr. Niharranjan Ray, “India and
Oceania” by Dr. Kalidas Nag. The Committee conveys its
thanks to all these gentlemen for their valued co-operation.

Publications

Four issues of the Journal appeared during this period,
Vol. IV, Nos. | and 2, and Vol. V, Nos. | and 2. That the
standard of the Journal was kept at its old level will appear
from the fact that among its contributors were numbered
some of the foremost authorities on their respective subjects
and nearly all the first-rate journals on Greater India were
on its exchange-list. Among other points of interests under
this head the Committee has to mention that a considerable
Progress was made in the printing of Prof. G. Tucci's

Google
76 REPORT OF THE GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

“Travels of Tibetan Pilgrims in the Swat Valley.” The
Committee also mentions with satisfaction that Mr. H. B.
Serkar completed during this period his translation of Prof.
Krom's Hindoe-Javaansche Geschiedenis of which the preli-
minary sheets were sent to the muthor for revision and
were received back by the Secretary.

The Committee notes with concern that except one of
the Bulletins all the rest are completely out of stock or very
nearly 20. The Committee hopes as in former years that
new and revised editions of these useful works for which
there is a steady demand will be undertaken at no distant
date.

Congresses and Conferences

In December 1937 the Ninth Session of the All-India
Oriental Conference held its sessions at Trivandrum under
the distinguished patronage of H. E. the Maharaja of
Travancore. The Greater India Society was represened at
the Conference by a number of delegates, including Mr. O.
C. Gangoly, Dr. S. K. Chatterjee, Mr. J. N. Banerjea and
the Hony. Secretary. The delegates participated in the
proceedings of the Conference under their respective sec-
tions. The Hony. Secretary utilised the opportunity of the
visit of Dr. W. F. Stutterheim, Head of the Archaeological
Department, Java, and one of the distinguished delegates
from abroad present at the Conference for settling an ex-
change of photographs of the Javanese Archaeological
Department for a set of the Society's publications. These
precious photographs, numbering more than 70, have since
been received by the Society.

In August 1938 the Hony. Secretary attended by invita-
tion the Eighth International Congress of Historical Sciences
at Zurich where he read a paper in the section “History of
Non-European Lands” of which he was appointed Vice-
President. The Twentieth session of the International
Congress of Orientalists was held at Brussels in the follow-
ing week and was attended by Drs. U. N. Ghoshal and S. K.
Chatterjee as representatives of the Greater India Society

Google
REPORT OF THE GREATER INDIA SOCIETY 7

and the Calcutta University. Both of them offered papers
under their respective sections and otherwise participated
in the proceedings of the Congress. In September 1936,
Dr. Kalidas Nag attended the Second sessions of the British
Commonwealth Relations Conference at Sydney in the
capacity of a representative of the Government of India.

Library
During the period under review the Society's collection
of books etc. continued to be enriched with a constant
stream of publications received by exchange or for purpose
of review. These were made over according to the arrange-
ment made in the previous year to the Calcutta University
Library where they were kept as a separate collection.

Conclusion

In concluding this brief report of the working of the
Society for the period from Ist April 1937 to 31st December
1938, the Committee cannot but express its most sincere
thanks to those patrons and well-wishers of the Society who
have contributed to its success. Apart from the National
Council of Education and from Drs. Narendra Nath Law and
B, C. Law who made handsome donations to the Society's
funds, the Committee is thankful to Mr. Ramananda
Chatterjee and Dr. Narendra Nath Law for free advertise-
ments of the Society's publications in their respective
papers, The Committee however feels that more funds are
needed for meeting the Society's urgent needs such as its
own building with some additional furnitures. Still more is
the Society's need for young recruits who will worthily carry
on the work that it has started under difficult circumstances.
The Committee appeals to every patriotic man and woman
of India to take up this work and it earnestly trusts that its
appeal will not go in vain.

Google
BOOKS RECEIVED

The Greater India Society acknowledges with thanks
the receipt of the following books, periodicals, pamphlets
etc. during the last six months.

Periodicals

Adyar Library Bulletin (Brahma-Vidya), Vol. Il, pts. 3 and
4; Vol. Ill, pt. 1, Madras, 1938-39,

Anekanta (in Hindi), Nov. 1938, Shabranpur.

Annals of the Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute,
Vol. XIX, pt. III, Poona 1938,

Annual Report (1937-38) of the Bhandarkar Oriental
Research Institute, Poona 1938.

Bijdragen tot de Taal-, Land- en Volkenkunde van
Nederlandsch-Indié, deel 97, vierde afl., 1938

Buddha-Prabha, Vol. 6, No. 4, Bombay 1938

Bulletin of the Colonial Institute of Amsterdam, Vol. II,
Nos. | and 2, Amsterdam 1939.

Bulletin of the School of Oriental Sutdies, Vol. IX, pt. 4,
London 1939

Cahiers de I’ Ecole Francaise d’Extreme-Orient, No. 16,
Hanoi 1938.

Djawa, Jaarg., 18, No. 6; 19,No. 1, Jogjakarta 1938-39.

Jaarverslag (1937-38), Kern Institute, Leiden 1938

Journal of the Annamalai University, Vol. VIII, No. 2,
Annamalainagar, 1939.

Journal of the Assam Research Society, Vol. VI, Nos. 3
and 4, Gauhati 1938-39.

Journal of Indian History, Vol. XVII, pt. 3, Madras 1938.

Journal of the Malay Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society,
Vol. XVI, pt. II, Singapore, 1938.

Maha-Bodhi, Vol. 46, No. 12, Calcutta, 1938.

Man in India, Vol. XVIII, Nos. 2 & 3; 4, Ranchi, 1938.

s00gle
BOOKS RECEIVED 9

Nagari-Pracarini Patrika, (in Hindi) Vol. 43, No. 1, Benares
1938.

Ostasiatische Zeitschrift, Jahrg. 14, | and 2/3 heft, Berlin
1938.

Quarterly Journal of the Mythic Society, Vol. XXIX, Nos. 2
and 3, Bangalore 1938-39.

Tijdschrift. voor Indische Taal-, Land-en Volkenkunde,
deel LXXIX, afl. 1, Batavia 1939.

Books, pamphlets etc.

ARAVAMUTHAN, T.G., Catalogue of Venetian Coins in the
Madras Govt. Museum, Madras 1938.

The Family of Nations (Carnegie Endowment for Inter-
national Peace), New York 1938.

Naerssen, F.H. VAN, Inscripties van het Rijksmuseum voor
Volkenkunde te Leiden, Batavia 1938.

Recamey, K., The Bhadramayakaravyakarana, Warsaw
1938. Three Chapters from the Samédhirdjasitra,
Warsaw 1938,

Uittreksel uit de Oudheidkundige Verslagen over 1931-
1935 (Kon. Bat. Gen. v. Kunst. en Wett.), Batavia
1937,

Google
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
GRADUATE LIBRARY

DATE DUE

ONE WeeK

Original from

Digitized by Google UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
PUBLICATIONS OF THE

Greater India Society

BULLETINS

1. Greater india—Dy Dr. Kalidas Nag, (to be re-issued).
2, India and China—Tty Dr. Prabodh Chandra Bagchi (to be re-issued),
3. ‘Indian Culture in Java and Sumatra—Revised and enlarged edition. Part I,
Text—By Dr. B. R. Chatterji; Part II, Inscriptions—By Dr. N. P.
arti and Dr. B. R. Chatterji Re 2
and Central Asia—By Dr. N. P. Chakravarti (to be re-issued),
5. Anolent tndian Culture in Afghanistan—By Dr. U. N. Ghoshal

Re. 1.
PUBLICATIONS
1, Anolent Indian Colontes in the Far East—Vol. I, CHAMPA—By Dr. R.
C. Majumdar * Re. 15,
2. Anotent indiancotontes in the Far East—Vol. 11, Part I—8UVARNADVIPA
By De. R. C. Majumdar fis. 10. *
3 Hindu Law and Custom—(Only authorised English translation of Dr.”
Julius Jolly’s Recht und Sitte)—By Dr. B. K. Ghosh, RB. 108
4 Soolal Life In Anolent tndia—Studies in Vitsyayana’s Kamasitra)—By
Prof. H. ©. Chakladar. Rea %
5. Pratima Laksanam (Sanskrit and Tibetan)—By Prof. P. N. Bose.
Tr ee
6. Indian Literature in China and the Far East_By P.K. Mukherji.
Re 3. +

1, Indo-davanese History (only euthorised English translation of Dr. N.J.”

Krom’s Hindoe-Javaansche Geschiedenis)—By Hitmansu Bhusan Sarkar,M.A
(in preparation)

8. Indian Colony of Siam—By Prof. P. N. Bose. Re oe >
9% QML BIE (Hindi ‘edition of Bulletin No. 1.) (To be re-issued). 4
10. 3{SI STS (Bengali edition of Bulletin No. 1.) Re |

GREATER INDIA STUDIES
1, Indian Influences on the Literature of Java and Ball—By Himanou
Bhusan Sarkar, M.A. Re 6,

2, Travels of Tibetan Pilgrims In the Swat Valley—By Dr. Giuseppe Tucci
(in the Press)

To be had of the Manager, GREATER INDIA SOCIETY,
21, BADURBAGAN ROW, P.O. AMHERST STREET,
CALCUTTA. .

Printed and Published by Sj. J. C, Sarkhel, at the Calcutta Oriental Press, Ltd.
9, Panchanan Ghosh Lane, Calcutta.

Google

