dey of

Mich hy
pi “aries.

THE

JOURNAL

OF THE

GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

JANUARY: 1941 No. 1

Vou. VIII

EDITED BY
U.N. GHOSHAL
Articles : Pace
Recent Progress in Malayan Archzology (K. A. Nilakanta Sastri) ok
Theravida Buddhism in Burma (Nihar-Ranjan Ray)... seu
Miscellany :
Talanai (Dr. George Goedés) faa ee

Notkes of Books :

Cornelius Osgood, Ingalik Material Culture, (T. C Das)
E, Obermilles, Prajidpiramitaratnagunasaicayagatbi,
(Vidhusekhara Bhattacharya); S. Srikantaya, Founders of
Vijayanagara (U. N. G); Anigirika B. Govinda, The
psychological attitude of early Buddhist philosophy and
its systematic representation according to Abbidhamma
tradition, (Nalinaksha Dutt). eee

Reception to Dr. H, G, and Mrs, Quaritch-Wales B
Lecture on the Living Culture of Java and Ball ... 5
Obituary Notice a 76
Select Contents of Oriental Journals 2B

Published by—
THE GREATER INDIA SOCIETY, CALCUTTA
Agents outside India—
_ Messrs, LUZAC & CO, 46 Great Russell Street, London, w. ct

Greater India Society (Estaplisnea 1927)
Aims and Objects

1. To organize the study of Indian Culture in Greater India (i.
‘Serindia, India Minor, Indo-China and Insulindia) as well as in China,
Korea, Japan, and other countries of Asia,

2. To arrange for publication of the results of researches into the
history of India’s spiritual and cultural relations with the outside world.

3. To create an interest in the history of Greater India and
connected problems among the students in the schools, colleges, and
Universities of India by’ instituting a systematic study of those subjects
and to take proper steps to stimulate the same.

4. To popularise the knowledge of Greater India by organising
meetings, lantern lectures, exhibitions and conferences.

Membership Rules

1. The annual subscription payable by members is Rs. 12/- only.
Member: entitled to receive the publications of the Society at

concession rates and copies of the Journals of the Society free of cost.

2. Resident members may have access to the Society’s collection
of books, pamphlets and periodicals etc. on application either to
the Honorary. Secretary of the Society or the Librarian, Calcutta
University. The Society's collection is housed, by arrangement with
the Calcutta University authorities, in the University Library.

Officers and Members of the Managing Committee
Greater India Society, 1940,

Purodha—Dr. Rabindranath Tagore, Hon. D.Litt. (Oxon.)
President—Sir P. C. Ray, Kt., D.Sc.

Vice-Presidents—Rao Bahadur K.N.
O. C. Gangoly, Esq., F-R.A.S.B.

Hony. Secretary—Prof. U. N. Ghoshal, M.A., Ph. D., F.R-A.S.B.
Hony. Joint Secretary—Dr. Kalidas Nag, M.A., D.Litt. (Pari

Other Members of the Committee—Dr. eer Nath Law, M.
Ph.D.; Prof. Suniti Kumar Chattei Litt. (Lond.

Dr. rabodh Chandra Bagchi,
Dr. Nalinaksha Dutt, M.A. Ph.D., D. (Lond. Prof. =

ikshit, M.A., F.R.A.S.B.

shekhar Bhattacharya; Dr. Nihar-Ranjan Ray
D Litt, (Leiden); Jitendranath Banerjea, Esq., M.A. ;
Ramachandran, Esq., M.A.

JOURNAL OF THE GREATER INDIA sarieTy

Original

oisnvese Google UNIVERSITY 0}

THE JOURNAL

GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

Recent Progress in Malayan Archaeology

By Pror. K. A. NILAKANTA SASTRI

The results of the archaeological exploration carried out
recently by Dr. Quaritch Wales for well over a year in Malaya
have been published in the form of an excellent monograph
entitled “‘Archaeological Researches on Ancient Indian
Colonization in Malaya” which forms the first part for the
year 1940 of the Journal of the Malayan Branch of the Royal
Asiatic Society. The author explains in his preface that
he has set forth the body of new facts brought to light by him
separately in Part I (pp. 1-63), while devoting the much
shorter Part II (pp. 67-85) to some of the broader historical
deductions that he thinks can be drawn from these facts.
Fifteen line-drawings of maps and plans, and eighty-nine
plates which accompany the report furnish all the aids that
any one who seeks to master its details may reasonably ask
for.

No fewer than thirty sites round about Kedah, nearly all
of them to the south of Kedah Peak and on the banks of
streams emptying themselves into Kuala Merbok and Kuala
Muda, were chosen for excavation and the bulk of Part I is
taken up with a description of them (1-47) ; the rest is a des-
cription of antiquities from sites in Perak and Johore, and
these include some already otherwise known and some

Google
2 K. A. NILAKANTA SASTRI

others obtained by Dr. Wales from the localities, though not
actually discovered by him.

An inscribed rectangular stone bar from site No. | bears
the ye-dharmma formula in South Indian characters of the
fourth century A.D. and proclaims the Buddhist character
of the site where a considerable laterite basement (22’ 6” x 23’
6”) perhaps of a stipa, and near it a laterite platform 15’
square, ‘either a small Buddhist vihara or a monk's residence,”
have been exposed. The inscribed bar may be contemporary
with the Bukti Meriam (Site 26) inscription of the same formula
discovered by Low about a century ago. A more interesting
find and in some ways perhaps the most important one in the
whole series is a sundried clay tablet measuring 54%” x 1%”
x1%"in the centre and slightly tapering towards either end,
inscribed on three faces, each face carrying two lines making
a complete Sloka. The script is decidedly Pallava grantha
of the sixth century A.D., possibly earlier. These three
Sanskrit verses embodying Mahayanist philosophical doctrines
have been traced together in a Chinese translation of the
‘Sagaramati-pariprecha, the original of which is not forth-
coming; two of these three verses occur also in a number
of translations of other works, all of the Madhyamika school.
The importance of this inscription is that it precedes by about
a century the earliest definitely Mahayanist inscription so far
known from South-east Asia, viz., the Sumatran inscription of
606 Saka (674 A.D.) from Talang Tuwo.

At Site No. 4 Dr. Wales carried out a more complete
excavation than Mr, Evans who noticed this site first in 1925,
and the result is that the laterite plinth of a temple and a
mandapa to the east of it have been exposed. It is suggested
that the superstructure, of which we have no traces now,
must have been of wood, and that the temple must have been
a Siva temple in Pallava style. As thie is rather important, it
is necessary to cite the very words of the author: ‘Since the
plinths and lower courses of both the rathas (of Mahabali-
puram) and the Kedah temples under discussion are so plain as
to afford almost no data for comparison in regard to style, the

Google
RECENT PROGRESS IN MALAYAN ARCHAEOLOGY 3

conclusion that the Kedah temples are in fact the work of
Pallava colonists rests on the supplementary evidence supplied
by the associated finds, especially the miniature roof to be
described below’ (p. 12). The ‘associated finds’ include a
crudely executed Ganeéa figure carved on a granite boulder,
a granite Nandi and a relief of Durga as MahigSsuramardint,
besides a bronze object (P1. 18) lifted from the adjoining river-
bed by Tamil coolies engaged in collecting boulders and
described by Dr. Wales as ‘roof of miniature bronze shrine.”
That the site is that of a Saiva shrine seems clear, but ] doubt
if the so-called ‘roof of miniature bronze shrine’ is really that,
and if it is has any great value in the argument. I must add
that Dr, Quaritch Wales is not without his own doubts on the
matter. He writes with disarming naiveté: “The shrine was
evidently used as a casket, the roof acting as a hinged lid
provided with a fastener’; after thus disposing of the hinge,
he exhibits his awareness of other inconvenient facts by say-
ing: ‘ the figure of a croes-legged rishi seated at each corner,
betokening the Saivite cult,’ is a feature never found on
the roofs at Mahabelipuram. The openwork roof strongly
suggests that the temples on which this miniature was
modelled had roofs of carved wood or other perishable
material’ (p.14). The resemblance between this lid and
the roof of the Ganega ratha on which he lays stress, is by
no means striking. The sixth or seventh century date sug-
gested for the site depends upon the supposition of a
wooden superstructure on the model of Pallava rathas, for
which there seems to be no tangible evidence.

Site No. 8 ona low spur to the south of Kedah Peak
is of interest for its Siva temple built, at least in its plinth
and lower courses which are all that now remain, of
carefully dressed small granite blocks, which were used
also for pavements. A fragment of a bronze trident, and
two nine-chambered quartzite reliquaries of a type unknown

“in India, but common in more elaborate forms in Java in

1. One may ask Why?

Google
4 K. A, NILAKANTA SASTRI

the ninth and tenth centuries, mark out this monument as
an early prototype of the Javanese candi (tomb-temple).
The main image in the temple might have been the image of
a king in the form of Siva, and not the usual Liga. There
is no evidence of any Javanese influence here, and the
trident is noticeably early in its style. Sepulchral temples
are known to South Indian ism ; but we know little of
the rituals of their foundation, and less of their early
history and evolution. The Kedah candi is an important
new link in this history, at least so far as the Hindu colo-
nies in the East are concerned.

Site No. 10 has a sanctuary about 11’ 6” square opening
to the west which contained interesting foundation deposits
at about 2’ below floor level; these comprise one gold and
six silver discs, each 134” in diameter; they are all
inscribed on one side in South Indian characters of a
cursive type which may be dated in the ninth century
A.D. The inscriptions are generally names of Bodhisattvas,
except in one case where we have only the syllable om, and
may represent either the images set up in the temple at
the time of its consecration, or the devotees who bore these
names and took part in the ceremony. Bosch has observed
that such discs are unknown to Javanese archaeology.
The. opening of Buddhist shrines to the west is well known,
and was observed by Ki-ye who travelled in India in the
latter half of the tenth century.”

Site 12, eighth or ninth century A. D., yielded an iron-
dagger with bronze hilt, very similar in shape to the dagger
worn by the Mahigasura in the famous Mahabalipuram
relief of his fight with Durga, and fragments of two Chinese
mirrors of the T’ang period (618-907 A. D.). Glass beads
from Site 13 of more or less the same date as the preceding
site are said to resemble similar beads found in the Philip-
pines and dating from eighth to tenth centuries A. D. there.
Site No. 14 was probably a Buddhist shrine dating from the

2. BEFEO, iv, p. 80.

Google
RECENT PROGRESS IN MALAYAN ARCHAEOLOGY 5

end of the ninth century; among its foundation deposits
were two silver coins of the Abbasid Caliphate, one of them
bearing distinctly the date 234A. H. (848 A. D.), and an
inscribed fragment, the rim of a small silver vessel, bearing
+ @ few letters of what must have been a Pali votive inscrip-
tion in characters of the sixth or seventh century. In a
tantric Buddhist temple 20’ square, the inner sanctuary
measuring 7’ square within, (Site No. 16), was found a bronze
casket containing miniature models of animals and weapons
in precious metals, together with some gems; fragments of
bronze objects such as an aureole, an image, lamps and lamp
suspenders and a small bell, all more or less South Indian
in appearance, were also recovered from the same sl
which is dated conjecturally in the ninth or tenth century
A.D. A large Siva temple of the eleventh or twelfth
century on Site 19 has been identified by a headless four-
armed terracotta Ganeéa and a nine-chambered bronze
reliquary, besides a ‘pointed bronze object with thick crenu-
lated edges’, which Dr. Quaritch Wales calls ‘the central
prong of a trident of Siva’ (p. 39 and Pl. 73), but is clearly
the Sakti-weapon of Karttikeya or Subrahmanya. Under
Site No. 27 we find the report of an interesting find in 1914
of parts of a golden belt of woven wire including two
repousse pieces of a sirthamukha which adorned the clasp
in front, similar in appearance to the clasp of the belt of the
large stone Bhairava of the fourteenth century from Sungai
Lan; in Sumatra; the gold belt may be of the same time
or a little earlier. The section on Kedah closes with two
notes on the dimensions of the various classes of typical
bricks from Kedah sites, and the results of chemical analyses
of bronze objects conducted at the Imperial Institute.
Turning then to Perak, Dr. Wales begins by explaining
the difference in geographical conditions between Kedah
where the streams are small, and the danger of soil erosion
limited, conditions favourable to the preservation of
ancient sites, and Perak with its torrential rivers draining
vast mountain slopes. He suggests that the flat swampy

Google
6 K. A, NILAKANTA SASTRI

jungle stretching out to the sea beyond the modern town
of Telok Anson did not exist in the days of Hindu colo-
nisation ; ‘for’, he says, ‘I understand that geologists are
now of opinion that the tin-bearing alluvium bordering
the foothills is of very recent origin indeed’ (p. 48). 1
have a suspicion that in saying this, Dr. Wales has over-
looked the difference in the time scales employed by the
geologist and the historian. But changes in the course of
rivers in historical times are known to have occurred in
many parts of the world and may well be admitted without
any support from geology. It may also be conceded
generally that these changes may have caused destruction
to ancient sites and their antiquities. But then Dr. Quaritch
Wales says that ‘it is important to lay the strongest
emphasis’ (p. 48) on this phenomenon, and says a little
later: ‘The point that must be borne in mind, therefore,
is that it would be quite possible for large cities to have
flourished on the Perak rivers and yet to have been com-
pletely destroyed’ (p. 49); he further explains the paucity
of finds from these sites saying: ‘The fact that they are
found isolated and scattered shows how completely 8
have been overwhelmed and their remains perhaps rooted
up, and disseminated over square miles of river basin’
(pp. 49-50). It after such a tendentious introduction
that he reviews six bronzes, all Buddhist, three early
Hinayana ones, two Buddhas and a throne (fifth and sixth
centuries A. D.), and the rest Mahayana Bodhisattvas
(eighth to tenth century A. D.), and all of them already
known in one way or other. Dr. Wales then refers to
the Malay annals on Ganga Nagara and local traditions
in Bruas of an old city; but his attempts to get confirma-
tion of these by excavations at a kota (fort) and the ad-
joining Muslim graveyards, yielded nothing more than
some porcelain fragments of the Ming period (fifteenth
and sixteenth centuries). He then recalle thé discoveries
made by Evans some years ago at Kaula Selinsing, a site
not exposed to riverine erosion, and discusses in the light

Google
RECENT PROGRESS IN MALAYAN ARCHAEOLOGY 7 -

of hie further investigations, the so-called Pallava seal
inscribed ‘vignuvarmmasya’ and the ear-ring with the
relief of a human figure on a bird; Dr. Wales doubts the
Hindu origin of the seal because of the mit
for éri) ; he is inclined to see more Indon
in the settlement which he dates from the
A.D. to the thirteenth. 1 think the doubts cast upon the
Hindu character of the seal, whatever the truth about the
ear-ring may be, are quite unwarranted, and I can only ask
the reader to read the original account of Evans on these
finds and consult his excellent illustrations of them in
F. M.S. Museums Journal (XV, Pt. 3, Aug. 1932). We
shall return to this question with Dr. Wales presently.
The slab graves of Perak are also declared to be more
Indonesian than Indian in character, and this may well be
80, as sites known to be definitely Indian have nothing like
them or the implements found in them,

Part I concludes with a discussion of Johore and some
sites in it in the light of Moens’ article on (rivijaya, Yava
en Kafaha in the Batavian Tijdschrift. Dr. Wales is quite
decisive in his findings against Moens’ location of Lo-yue
and Kadaram in Johore. Unlike Perak and to a less
extent Kedah where rivers and tin-mining have proved
highly inimical to the preservation of ancient sites, Johore
has been practically -static in its geographical conditions,
its rivers being very sluggish, and of tin-mining there has
been very little here. Sungai Seluyat on which Moens
would locate Lo-yue is quite unsuited for growing a crop
or building a town. ‘As to Sungai Kedaru, a tributary of
the Sungai Papan which flows into the Lebam, on which
Moens proposes to locate the great city of Kadaram, |
found it to be merely a narrow channel through brackish
swamps, barely navigable by sampan’ (p. 58). Again: ‘Is
it then for one moment imaginable that the ruined temples
of Kadaram, a great city which flourished certainly as late
as the Xllth century A. D., could have remained unknown
if they had stood anywhere near the quiet waters of the

Google
8 K. A. NILAKANTA SAsTRi

Johore?’ (p. 60). Mr. Moens’ location of Kadaram at
Johore was considered by the present writer and rejected
on quite other grounds some time ago.* At Kota Tinggi.
an early settlement is attested by the discovery of Mr. G. B.
Gardner of a large number of beads 20% of them Roman,
7.5% early Indian stone beads, and the rest ‘mostly of
crude glass of no clearly assignable origin, either Arabic
or European’ (p. 60). Dr. Wales’ excavations showed
much Ming blue and wl porcelain mixed with earlier
pottery of local Indonesian manufacture bearing decorative
designs similar to those on the well-known bronze drums
of the Han period, which are probably more Indonesi
than Chinese. Structural remains of Hindu or Buddhist
nature are definitely of a much later date.

Just one more observation before we leave Part 1 of
Dr, Wales’ monograph. He notices the absence of Hindu
colonies on the east coast of the Malay peninsula, and, as
he points out, so far there has’ not been even a chance
find of an Indian antiquity from these parts, and expl
this as due to the area being exposed to the full force of
the north-east monsoon (p. 59). There may be something
in this, but obviously this cannot be all. The Aral
Sea littoral of South India is exposed to the full force of
the South-west monsoon, and this did not stand inthe way
of numerous emporia and a busy trade coming up there,
as well as the rise of a number of foreign settlements in
these marts.

In Part Il Dr. Wales seeks to set forth ‘some of the
broader historical deductions’ emerging from his dis-
coveries, and he naturally tries to link up these conclusions
with his earlier work on the subject, in which he has d
tinguished, with reservations, Four Main Waves of Indian
Cultural Expansion in the East. For the period of the
First Wave, first three centuries of the Christian era, the
Roman beads of Johore are accepted as evidence and

8. JGIS, Vol. V. (1938) p. 128.

Google
REOENT PROGRESS IN MALAYAN ARCHAEOLOGY 9

taken to support, Berthelot’s identification of Ptolem
Palanda with Kota Tinggi. The carriers of these beads
may have been Indians ; but no really early evidence of
a fully Indian character, say a Buddha in Amat style
such as has been found elsewhere, has yet come to light
in Malaya, and it continues to be difficult to fix the locali-
ties of Hindu colo: rea in this period; the
population and culture, Dr. Wales suggests, might have
been dominantly Indonesian, witness Pahang bronze drum,
slab graves, and bulk of finds at Kuala Selinsing, though
not untouched by Indian influences. Braddell’s identi-
fication of Takola with Kedah is, I think properly, held to
be doubtful.

The inscribed clay tablet from Kedah Site 2 and the
two Buddha bronzes from the Kinta valley from the most
important evidence for the Second Wave (c. 300-550 A. D.).
Dr. Wales suggests that Kedah was part of Lang-ya-hsiu,
1 kingdom which had its capital at Ligor and spread
across the peninsula touching the sea on either side, and
was itself subject to Fu-nan. The only evidence cited in
support of this highly speculative position is the presence
of ‘very early inscriptions’ not only at Kedah, but at Ligor.
It may not be without interest to note here that Professor
Luce, on whom Dr. Wales relies in part for the reconstruc-
tion he offers, sizes up quite otherwise the evidence on the
relations between Lang-yu-hsiu and Fu-nan. He says:
“‘It (Lang-ya-hsiu) is not mentioned, however, in connec-
tion with the conquests of Fu-nan. After along period of
weakness its power was revived, under influence from
India, in the latter half of the fifth century ; quite possibly
it gained, as Furnan lost, in importance.""* And as none
of the ‘very early inscriptions’ cited by Dr. Wales goes
back to the Fu-nan period, they can furnish no evidence
of value for this time, Dr. Wales says that Moens’ identi-
fication of Cho-p’o with Kedah could not be dismissed on

4, JBRS, XIV, p. 165.
2

Google
10 K. A. NILAKANTA SASTRi

purely archaeological grounds ; this is perhaps so; but as
I have discussed this identification in detail elsewhere’ and
expressed my disagreement with it, it is not necessary to
go over the ground again here. Dr. Wales suggests also
that the obscure Kan-toli or Kin-to-li of the Leang and First
‘Sung annals must be sought in the Kinta valley; he thinks
that phonetically the names Kinta and Kin-to-li are near
enough, and the two Buddhist images of the Gupta type
from the locality accord with the Buddhist affiliations of
Kin-to-li as recorded in the Chinese annals. Dr. Wales
adds: ‘While I shall not press the identification it will
appear later that there is other evidence in support of this
view’ (p. 69). At this point I will only observe that the
Ming annals state definitely that Kin-to-li was the ancient
name of San-fo-tsi, and this has led quite a number of
scholars to locate it in Sumatra. Moreover, Buddhism
and Buddha images, which are found all over these lands
can hardly settle questions of this character. We shall
return to this matter when we come to the ‘other evidence”
of Dr. Wales.

The age of the Third Wave (c. 550-750 A.D.) is the
most important period for the history of Kedah, according
to Dr. Wales. He postulates the constant arrivals of
a colonists here from the opposite coast and
‘Kedah remained remarkably Indian long after
local evolution had set in further afield’ (p. 70). We have
presented our view above of the evidence from Sites 4
to9 on which Dr. Wales relies particularly for his thesis,
and we think that he is inclined to read more meaning
into the finds than they are apt to bear. There is surely
something in his view that the West coast of Malaya was
more directly exposed to strong Pallava influences than
the rest of Malayasia ; he cites the Takuapa images in his
discussion of this period, and one wonders if he has
noticed that these images like the Tamil inscription with

5. JGIS, Vol. vii. p. 15.

Google
RECENT PROGRESS IN MALAYAN ARCHAEOLOGY 11

which they are connected really belong to his Fourth
Period. The somewhat exaggerated stress he has laid on
the role of C’aiya and Ligor, and the overland routes
across the isthmus in the spread of Hindu culture in Indo-
China has been noticed already by other critics. Again,
he says that the four bronze images from the Kinta valley
are two of them Gupta, and two Pala, which we may
accept for the sake of argument ; but can the absence of
a Pallava representative here support the inferences (1) that
the Pallava colonists did not pass through the straits of
Malacca and establish themselves in the country beyond;
and (2) that the early colony established in the Kinta
valley of Perak, for the existence of which there is no
other evidence than its supposed identity with Kin-to-li,
lapsed temporarily after the sixth century? Likewise his
citation of the fragmentary Bangka stone image (of Vienu?)
as evidence of Hindu influence modified in the northern
part of the Malay Peninsula and thence transmitted to
Sumatra and Java is hardly convincing, as also the attempt
to deny the possibility of Hindu influences directly playing
upon Sumatra and Java in the seventh century: the script
of the Sumatran inscriptions of the close of the seventh
century and I-tsing’s observations on Srivijaya seem to tell
a different tale, so at least others have held. And the
proper interpretation of the Bangka image to treat it,
as Stutterheim does, a product of the Srivijaya art of
the period, a local work marked at once by both Indian
and Indonesian traits.

But the most revolutionary of Dr. Wales’ suggestions
are those put forward in the concluding pages of his
memoir on the identity of Kagaram and the centre of the
Sailendra empire of Srivijaya. He says that Hindu Pallava
influences cease at Kedah about the second half of the
eighth century A.D. when Mahaya temples replace
Siva temples and the Fourth Wave sets in; Kedah
(=Langkasuka) becgmes a dependency of the Ssilendra
empire, which had its centre in the Kinta valley, witness

Google
12 K, A. NILAKANTA SASTRI

Mahayanist images from the tin mines. There are no
influences of Sumatran or Javanese origin traceable in the
peninsula, all the archaeological finds from Kedah, Perak
and elsewhere being clearly directly Indian in origin, and
pre-dating the later forms of the islands, and this negatives
‘any idea that Javanese or Sumatran reflux influence was
a powerful factor in the culture of the peninsula during
this period’ (p. 73). ‘On purely cultural grounds, there-
fore’, says Dr. Wales, ‘I reject any view which seeke to
make Java or Sumatra the headquarters of the Sailendra
empire, while it seems rather unlikely that the Sailendra
‘dynasty originated from either of these islands’ (p. 74).
In making these remarks on the cultural relations among
three regions, South India, Malaya and the islands, that
were engaged in active mutual intercourse all the time,
Dr. Wales is nicely skating over thin ice. But why should
Pallava influences have all been Hindu? Kaijici, the home
of Dharmapala, wasa great centre of Buddhism as well.
Dr. Wales is not unconscious of this as he says that ‘the
Fourth Wave of Indian influence no doubt came largely
from South India, which itself was influenced at this period
by Pala Mahayanist culture’ (p. 73). Further there is no
apparent reason why Pallava influences must have ceased
to be operative in the latter half of the eighth century; and
the Takuapa Tamil inscription and images imply just the
contrary.

Srivijaya of the Ligor Sanskrit inscriptions must have
been another city, different from the Sumatran city of
that name with its old Malay inscriptions, possibly modern
C’aiya. As a result of CQced’s’ criticisms—and Coedds
pointed out that there were not two but several (Sri) Vi
and in consequence of further exploration, Dr. Wales
no longer considers that C’aiya was the centre of the
Maharaja’s empire which controlled the straits indirectly
through Kedah (Kadaram). The evidence of the Perak
Mahayéanist bronzes and the new knowledge he has gained
from a study of local geographical conditions have resulted

Google

REOENT PROGRESS IN MALAYAN ARCHAEOLOGY 18

in a revolutionary revolution of Sailendra history by him.
If C’aiya’s eccentric position disqualifies it for being the

centre of a large maritime empire as Ccedés says, Palem-
bang, rejoins Dr. Wales, is in no better case. We must
find a more central capital, and this, he says, could have
been nowhere else than in the Kinta valley. By locating
the capital here, Dr. Wales overcomes one difficulty he

had experienced before, viz., ‘in supposing that such obvi-
ously important cities as C’aiya and Ligor could have been
dependencies situated on the periphery of an empire having
its capital so far away as Palembang.’ Any difficulty
others might feel that this supposed capital in the Kinta
valley has left no tangible traces behind, Dr. Wales seeks to
remove by the knowledge he has now gained ‘that a great
city could have existed as lately as the XII or XIlIth cen-
tury in the Kinta valley and yet have left no noticeable
remains owing to the destruction brought about by natural
agencies’ (p. 75). The reader may now understand the
full significance of the remarks with which Dr. Wales
introduced the Perak bronzes and the ‘strongest emphasis’
he laid there on the geographical conditions of the
district.

By way of evidence in favour of this hypothesis, he
recalls the Perak bronzes and the Chinese reference to
Kan-to-li, already noticed; then he cites the Vignu Varman
seal from Kuala Selinsing, accepts Chhabra’s suggestion
that Vignuvarman might be identical with Vignu of the
Ligor inscription, and suggests that the seal was made
for the Sailendra emperor ‘of the neighbouring city which
would presumably be the residence of the Sailendra emper-
ors, ie. Kadaram’ (p. 77). The Ligor Sailendra inscrip-
tion is later than 775 A.D. by one or two generations; no
one but Chhabra has suggested that the Perak seal can
be so late, and even he is fully alive to the paleographical
difficulty, and asks rhetorically: ‘Can we not conceive
of two different characters—one simple and the other some=
what elaborate—existing side by side for two different pur-

Google
uM K, A, NILAKANTA SASTRI

poses as in the present instance®?’ Dr. Wales glosses the
objection and says: ‘Considerable difference of opinion
exists as to the period from which the seal dates, as
one would expect with an inscription of so few letters’
(p. 55).

There is one other source on which Dr. Wales seeks
support for-his thesis: the story of Raja Suran in the Malay
Annals. He is aware that the story as itis is of no use to
history, but he says, ‘when treated in conjunction with
certain practical considerations and a legitimate scientific
imagination, may be of considerably greater historical
importance than has hitherto been supposed’ (p. 77). The
story in outline is that Raja Suran, a prince from India,
attacked Raja Ganggi Shah Juana, ruler of Gangga Nagara,
killed him and married his sister; then he attacked another
city Glangkui or Ganggayu, killed ite ruler Raja Chulan,
and this time married his daughter. Gangga Nagara is
located on river Dinding in Perak; in the later versions
Glangkui is identified with Johore as it possessed ‘a fort
of black stone up the river Johore.’ The earlier recen-
sion gives Lenggui for Ganggayu and omits all reference
to Johore and the fort. So far the story as summed up
by Dr. Wales. He suggests that this is a reference to Cala
campaigns of the reign of Rajendra I in which facts of
different campaigns have been mixed up; he cites a similar
suggestion made by me in my account of Rajaraja’s reign,
but I do not think the cases are on all fours, though |
admit readily that no external support is needed for so
general a suggestion that facts of history have got badly
mixed up together in a story. So far as I have been able
to make out, his concrete suggestions are:’ Suran stands

6. JASB, Letters, 1935, p. 28.

7. Some of these suggestions are obviously derived from previous
writers, seo particularly the comprehensive and useful discussion
by R. Braddell in JRAS, Malay Branch Vol. xiv. which raises many
valid objections to Raja Suran’s exploits being connected with
Rajendra’s expedition,

Google

RECENT PROGRESS IN MALAYAN ARCHAEOLOGY i6

for a king of the solar race (sdryavarhéa)—a suggestion
adopted from R. Braddell, which is probable; Raja Culan
stands, not for Caja as has been thought 80 far, but for
Cilamanivarman—which seems to me intrinsically less
probable and seems also to overlook the fact that Cala-
manivarman never came into conflict with the CoJa power,
but lived on most friendly terms with it; the firet expedition
against Gangga Nagara is a reference to the Ganges
campaign of Rajendra which he had completed before
undertaking the expedition against Kadaram—though it
is not explained why this campaign should find a place
in the Malay Annals; lastly, the black stone fort of Johore
is ultimately the city of Gaur, the capital of the Pala
rulers of Bengal, which had been largely built of black
hornblende—a far-fetched suggestion to say the least of
it asthe importance of Gaur is later than the period of
Pala rule. Dr. Wales adds that these legends have ‘their
point of origin so far as Malaya is concerned’ in Perak.
“It would be difficult to see any reason for this unless
Kadaram had been situated in Perak, while the fact that
the legends are attached to the river Dinding or the neigh-
bourhood of Bruas puts no difficulty in the way of our
identification of Kadaram with a site in the Kinta valle;
somewhere near Sungai Siput where two of the Mahai
nist bronzes came to light’ (p. 79).

Such are the grounds for which Kadaram is to be loca-
ted in the Kinta valley on a site which in the XIth century
was not as far from the sea as it now is, thanks to the rapid
growth of alluvial swamps. I have reproduced Dr. Wales’
argument as far as possible in his own words so that the
reader may judge for himself how far they may be con-
red sound and convincing. Speaking for ‘myself, I
can only say that this part of the essay on the location of
Kadaram is tne weakest part of the whole. In reality
there is no tangible evidence other than that of the bronzes,
and even if, for argument, we accept Dr. Wales’ view
that they are all of directly Indian inspiration and have no

Google
ie K. A. NILAKANTA SASTRE

relation to Sumatran art, they can only show that some
Hindu colony flourished for several generations in this
region. That it must have been the great city of Kadaram
has not been established and could not be established
without much more evidence than Dr. Wales hi far
adduced. Let me add this: I have refrained from citing
Moens’ arguments and those of R- C. Majumdar on the
change of capital of Ché-p‘o, on the Sailendras and on
Kadaram, with which Dr. Wales expresses agreement in
part, because they are not of the essence of Dr. Wales’
argument and they have been discussed fully by me
elsewhere—in my two papers on Kafaha, and Notes on
the Historical Geography of the Malay Peninsula and
Archipelago, published in the Journal of the Greater India
Society, and in a forthcoming paper on Srivijaya. | do not
think it necessary to follow Dr. Wales’ speculations on
later history as they do not arise directly out of his ex-
plorations.

Google
Theravada Buddhism In Burma

(From the introduction of Theravada Buddhism in
Pagan in 1057 to the fall of the Pagan dynasty,
c. 1287 A. D.)*

By Dr. Nihar-Ranjan Ray

Whoever has cared to study the local chronicles of
Burma must have taken notice of one characteristic common
to almost all of them. He must have seen that with the occu-
pation of the Pagan throne by Anawrahta the chronicler
becomes infused ae it were with new life; his account be-
comes fuller with details, events begin to move with force
and vigour, the narrative becomes more vivid, lively and
continuous, information more definite, and the chronicle
comes to stand against a more or less secure chronological
background. It is from this time that the chronicler seems to
give us a more or less exact history of the Peninsula. In
fact, there these chronicles and thamaings (prose his-
tories of pagodas, monasteries and towns) and in the his-
torical ballads a continuous history of Burma, full of details,
not unoften with interpretations thereof, from the conquest
of Thaton down to the British conquest of Burma; and on
the whole the information and the interpretation furnished by
them are reliable. This has been amply demonstrated by the
chronicles and thamaings themselves agreeing with one
another on all essential points as well as with independent
archaeological and monumental sources of information. A
good deal of caution is indeed necessary in dealing with
evidences from such sources, but that is more or less true
of all literary and semi-historical materials; even then such
sources can be turned to the best advantage if only one
knows how to separate the husk from the grain.

* This chapter is in sequence to the author’s Early traces of
Theravada Buddhism in Burma published in Vol. VI. No. 1 of
this Journal, pp. 1-52.

3

Google
18 NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

A modern historian attempting to write a history of
Burma from 1057 onwards has therefore reasons to be more
happy about his materials which are far from scanty and
are generally of reliable authenticity. It is thus possible
for him to present his readers with a detailed, complete and
continuous readable account whether of political or reli.
gious history without burdening it with discussions of deta’
and examinations of materials that are otherwise necessary.
The story of the religion from the memorable event of the
sack of Thaton and eventual introduction of Theravada

Buddhiem into Pagan onwards is, therefore, told with lees
difficulty.

Sources and Source-materials

A series of inscriptions originally engraved on ten
upright stones at the Kalyanisima, Pegu, for example,
constitute a most important evidence, and may be con-
sidered to be the surest foundation on which a structure
of the events of Buddhism during the four centuries
and a half from c. 1057 to c. 1500 A.D. can be built.
They are, moreover, our earliest sources, and devot-
ing themselves as they do, entirely and exclusively
to recording of the events and vicissitudes of the reli-
gion irrespective of any political or acti-
vities of contemporary kings and dynasties they go to
furnish us with an exhaustive and a most dependable
account, simply and faithfully told. These inscriptions,
it is well-known, were set up at the instance of king
Dhammaceti of Pegu (1472-92) to record the reintroduction
by the king, referred to in the inscriptions as Rama-
fifdhipati, of a canonically valid monastic succession
from Ceylon where, according to him, such a succession
had been preserved, while in his own realm it had long
been split up into schismatical sects. The validity of such
succession depends on the ordination, strictly in accord-
ance with the rules of the Vinaya, being handed down by
successive ordinations on the one hand, and on the pre-

Google
THERAVADA BUDDHISM IN BURMA 19

vious and proper consecration of the places where such
ordinations are carried out. Dhammaceti had sent a
mission of twenty monks to Ceylon to receive their re-
ordination at the hands of the great theras of the MahB-
vibara. When they came back and when an adequate
number of validly ordained monks had become available
king Dhammaceti caused them to consecrate in due form
‘8 simd or ordination-site at Pegu. To this he gave the name
of Kalyantsim& to commemorate the fact that the monks
who had been sent to Ceylon had received their upasam-
pada ordination in a sim on the Kalyani river. When the
king had thus succeeded in creating a good deal of interest
in the great work he had performed, large numbers of
monks of his realm came flocking together to receive re-
ordination at the hands of the monks already re-ordained
in Ceylon. Dhammaceti was thus able to bring about a
closing down of all schisms and effect an unity in the
Buddhist Order of Burma on the basis of a canonical valid
succession. In recording an account of this good and great
achievement, the inscriptions begin no doubt with a full
reference to king Asoka's reformation of the Buddhist
Order and the mission of Sona and Uttara to Suvannabhimi,
but then take a long jump over more than 1200 years and
at once refer themselves to the reign of king Manohari or
Manohar (Manuha) of Sudhuim (Thaton) and the eventual
conquest of Sudhuim and introduction of the religion into
Arimaddanapura by king Anuruddha (Anawrahta). It is,
in fact, from the account of the origin and consequences of
the schismatical divisions of the Order in Burma, in Burma
proper, i.e. in the realm of Pagan, but with special refer-
ence to the Mén country, that the narrative becomes full of
minute and exhaustive details furnishing a complete record
of that great work king Dhammaceti had so successfully
performed.’

1 The Pali text of the Kalyani inscriptions with a translation
and some notes as well as an introduction was first edited and

Google
20 NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

Of other standard sources for a religious history of
the period mention must be made of the Cullavarnsa, the
Gandhavarnsa” and the Sdsanavamsa,’ the latter a Pali work
written in Burma by a Burmese scholar, and the Pitakattha-
main* a twentieth century work. All these books have in
fact been utilised by Dr. Mabel Bode as furnishing elabor-
ate bibliographies of Pali literature of Burma and Ceylon ;
they are indeed the indigenous accounts of the Pali lite-
rature of Burma furnishing us with an almost complete
record of more or less well-known authors and their works.
But at the same time they also throw much welcome light
on the history and vicissitudes of the religion, and have
1 more or less complete record of the religious activities that
were responsible for bringing into existence such a store of
Pali literature in Burma. The Gandhavarnea which is the
earlier chronicle belonging to about the seventeenth century
is not so full of detai the later Sasanavarhsa ; it is in
fact very sparing of information with regard to the period
and chronology of the works it enumerates. The Gandha-
varhsa thus suffers from a serious drawback which is further
complicated by the very meagre information it gives of

published in 1803 by Mr. Taw Sein Ko in the Indian Antiquary,
Vol. xxii; some additional notes wero appended in the two years
following, under the title—Some remarks on the Kalyani
Inscriptions” (Vols. xxiii, xxiv). ‘These publications were issued
in separate form; which, however, was further supplemented by
‘@ transcript in the Burmese character of the actual Pali text, as
it survives in a fragmentary state on the stones.

Tho Mén text of the inscriptions was edited in the best and
most admirable manner by Dr. O. 0. Blagdon (Ep. Birmanica, Vol.
III, part II, 1928, Rangoon). Ho gives a full reading of the Mén
toxt, tested and verified by the Pali toxt, and portions of it by two
copies of a palm-leaf manuscript in the possession of the Kahnyaw
monastery, Bilugyun, and the Bernard Free Library. This is pre-
faced by a very good descriptive account and followed by an able
translation based upon the Mén text and its Pali counterpart.

2 Gandhavamec, Ed. by Minayeff JPTS, 1886, Index 1896.

8 Sasanavamsa, Ed. by Dr. Mabel Bode. JPTS, 1807.

4 Pitakkatthamain (in Burmese), Rangoon, 1906.

Google
THERAVADA BUDDHISM IN BURMA a1

the events and vicissitudes of the faith in Burma. But
much more useful from our point of view is the Sdsana-
varhsa which fully utilises the older Burmese chronicles,
for example, the Rajavarhsa, which is most aften referred
to, the Mahdrajavarnsa or the National Chronicle, the
Atthakatha and lastly even the inscriptions of the Kalyani-
sim&. It has, moreover, a reliable chronological sequence
and even assigns dates to events, authors and their works
which are verifiable with reference to other independent
sources. Its value lies in that it enables us to present a
brief but connected account of the religion. But the
Sasanavarhsa has its limitations ; “‘It is confused, rambling
and prejudiced. The author (Pafifiasimi) who dates his
book 1223 B. E.=1861 A. D., was the tutor of King Min-
don-Min and himself a pupil of the Sarngharaja, or Head
of the Order at Mandalay, a high eccl ic of Min-don-
Min’s reign, belonged by all his convictions and traditions
to the Sthala Sarngha (as distinct from and opposed to the
Mramma Sarhgha or Burmese School) an important school
or sect, having, as the name shows, a close connection
with the Buddhist fraternity of Ceylon. As for the other
communities whose spiritual forefathers refused to look on
the Mahavihara (of Ceylon) « « »#as the very centre and
hearth of orthodoxy, they interest him only moderately « ¢ «
Therefore, we must beware of considering the Sdsana-
varhsa a complete record of monastic work. Nevertheless,
the author’s own point of view is instructive, and we have
no right to say that he does not try to be impartial.’”*

The Sasanavarhsa professes to be a general history of
Buddhism and begins, therefore, with the birth of the
Buddha and gives a short and running summary of events
in the light of the Sinhalese tradition up to the sending
forth of missionaries by Asoka, more definitely by
Moggaliputta Tissa Mahathera, to nine different countries.
The latter history of the religion is then followed in these

5 Bode, Pali Literature of Burma, Introduction, pp. xi-xii.

Google
22 NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

nine countries, a separate chapter being given to each ;
but it is with only two of these nine that we are concerned,
viz. Chapter Ill dealing with Suvannabhimi (i.e. Lower
Burma for all practical purposes) and Chapter VI dealing
with Mrammamandala (i.e. Burma proper) in Apardnta-
rattha (ie. Upper Burma with centre at Pagan or
Arimaddanapura). The account of Suvannabhiimi together
with that of Sthala (Ceylon) is far more complete and shows
more knowledge of the subject than those of Yonakarattha,
Vanavisa, Kaémira-Gandhara, Mahirhsakamandala, Cina-
rattha or Maharattha. But even the account of the religion
in Suvannabhimi is meagre compared to that of Mram-
mamandala (Chap. VI) which practically occupies three-
fifths of the entire Sdsanavarhsa, and which is by far the
longest and the most important’ chapter’. But what is
interesting is that neither of the accounts of the two realms
gives us any exact detail (besides referring to the Asoka
mission in Suvannabhiimi and vaguely speaking of the
Samanakuttaka heresy at Arimaddana) of the vicissitudes
of the religion before the occupation of the Pagan throne
by Anawrahta and the subsequent conquest of Thaton.
only with this historical event that the Sdsanavarhsa
begins to be interesting and convincing. From this point it
fuller and detailed narrative, not only with regard
to Mrammamandala alone, but with regard to Suvannabhimi
as well which, by the way, included, according to the
Sdsanavarhsa, the Ramaififia country (Thaton), Harhsavati
(Pegu), and Muttima (Martaban).”

The Pitakkatthamain is a twentieth century (1906)
Burmese bibliography of Buddhist works written in
Rangoon, and is dependable asa book of reference. It is
of little importance as a chronicle of the events of the
religion and as such is not indispensable, but it is useful
with regard to dates and authors of Buddhist works, and

6 For an account of the arrangement and contents of the
Sdsanavamsa seo PTS edn., Introduction, pp, 1-10.
7 Sdsanavamsa, p. 35.

Google
THERAVADA BUDDHISM IN BURMA 23

as it records the tradition of older chronicles it has its im-
portance in the history of Pali literature of Burma.

Apart from purely ecclesiastical works we have at our
disposal a number of standard chronicles," one of which, the
Yazawingyaw, the work of Shin Thilawantha, goes as far
the fifteenth century. Its historical value is almost nothing,
as it speaks more of the history of Buddhism in India and
Ceylon than in Burma. Other chronicles are the sixteenth
century Razadarit Ayedawpon, by Binnya Dala, and the
Pawtugi Yazawin. The most important chronicles belong,
however, to the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries; such
are the Great Chronicle by Maung Kala, the New Pagan
Chronicle written in 1785, the New Chronicle written towards
the end of the eighteenth century by Twinthin Mahasithu
and lastly the Hmannan Yazawin compiled by a royal
commission in 1829. Besides these, there is a number
of other chronicles of lesser importance such as the
Tagaung Chronicle, the Rakhaing Chronicle, the Thareh-
kittara Chronicle, the Hngeppyittaung Chronicle, the Pagan
Chronicle, the Vamsadipani and perhaps yet others which
may be included in thi There are still others which
deal with particular periods or aspects of history; such,
for example, are the Talaing Chronicles, Pegu Chronicles,
Tavoy Chronicle, Cetivakatha, Cetivarnsa, and so forth.
But as! have not been able to examine for purpose of
my study chronicles other than the standard ones, it is
hardly of any use giving a long list. But this is just to
impress on the reader that there is indeed no reason to
complain about the dearth of historical materials in Burma,
though one may, however, doubt their quality or standard.*

8 For an account of those chronicles and their value seo
Harvey, History of Burma, pp. xvi-xiz; Maung Tin and Luce,
The Glass Palace Chronicle, pp. xiti-xxii

9 Mr. Harvey in evaluating the quality and standard of the
Burmese chronicles in the introduction of his admirable work,
History of Burma, writes, “Our main authority is the standard
Burmeso chronicles. It is impossible to study these especially in

Google
“ NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

Of the standard chronicles enumerated above and which
I have been able to consult, the Hmannan Yazawin is by
far the most complete and authoritative. The first two
chapters of this Chronicle are devoted to a mere repetition
‘of the story of Buddhism and of the Buddhist kings of India,
but with the third chapter, the story moves to Burma where it
opens with the history of the three kingdoms of Tagaung,
Tharekittara and Pagan, and in a string of several chapters
it brings the history of Bu: with the main outlines of her
political and religious vi tudes down to 1752. It was
compiled by a committee of scholars consisting of learned
monks, learned Brahmanas and learned ministers appointed
under the orders of king Bagyidaw in 1829. ‘‘The king of
the Law seeing many discrepancies and repetitions in the
former chronicles gave thought to the matter. Being con-
vinced that achronicle of kings should be the standard, a
balance, so to speak, for all duties of the king, for all affairs
of state, for all matters of religion, and not a thing full of
conflicting and false statement, he assembled his ministers
and ecclesiastical teachers......and caused the Chronicle to
be purified by comparing it with other chronicles anda
number of inscriptions each with the other, and adopting
the truth in the light of reason and traditional books.” The
Hmannan is indeed based largely on earlier sources, ¢.g., a
large number of inscriptions, almost all the standard chro-
nicles and those of lesser and local importance and a

conjunction with the other native records without acquiring con-
siderable respect for them. No other country on the main land of
Indo-China can show so impressive continuity. Tho great record
of substantially accurate dates goes back for no less than nine
centuries, and even the earlier legends have a substratum of truth.
But that which gives continuity also gives false perspective; the
record is that of the Burmese, the energetic and the dominant
minority who possessed an abiding palace and a continuous tra
tion. Written in the shadow of the throne, the chronicles tell little
of general conditions and their story is not that of the peoples of
Burma, or even of the Burmese people, but simply that of the
dynasties of Upper Burma. In a land of centrifugal tendencies,
facts are distorted to fit into a centripetal scheme, and the Burmese

Google
THERAVADA BUDDHISM IN BURMA 25

large number of thamaings, besides Pali chronicles and
Burmese poetical literature. Discrepancies among the
chronicles there are, but they are never vital and do
hardly affect the fundamental facts or factors of history
except in one or two minor details, and those even
only with regard to very early times. From our point
of view and with regard to the period under survey
agreement among the different standard chronicles is rather
the general rule. In connection with the history of Bud-
dhiem in Burma proper, the Buddha’s introduction of Bud-
dhism along with his visit to Lekaing is mentioned in al-
most every chronicle, and the subsequent events of the
religion in the one is practically repeated in the other with
very few minor discrepancies. | have, therefore, thought it
convenient to draw largely upon one chronicle, the Hman-
nan, which practically contains all that is given in the
earlier chronicles, especially with regard to all matters con-
cerning the vicissitudes of the religion. Like all other
sources, the Hmannaf,, too, is very sparing of details so far ae
it relates itself to happenings before the days of king Anaw-
rahta, but with him the account of the Hmannan becomes
more lively and interesting and more full of details, con-
nected and complete.

There is another class of Burmese historical literature
called-the Thamaings, important from both political and
religious points of view. They are frequently very late,
but as they profess to be based on older materials it is not
unoften that they contain valuable tradition. Their con-
tents are mainly of a religious nature, and they are generally
associated with establishment and
pagoda or monastery and sometimes even of a town. The
account in most of the thamaings is a queer admixture of

capital is made to occupy the whole of the canvas, while races
such as the Shans who for centuries wero of at loast equal im-
portance, and the Talaings, who were probably the leaders of
Civilization to the very end, aro scarcely mentioned save as a foil”.
(bid., p. xix).

4

Google
26 NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

legends and facts, but incidentally it sometimes throws wel-
come light on some political or religious event or events.
The Shwemadaw Thamaing is perhaps one of the ear!
and the Shwesandaw Thamaing probably follows close.
Among other thamaings may be mentioned the Thaton
Shwezayan Hpayazyi Thamaing, the Shwenattaung Tha-
maing, the Hop-u-Thamaing, and the Zat-ngaya Thama-
ing which are based on the older Shwesandaw Thamaing,
and the Ke Hkayaina Thamaing which was written only
about two decades ago. The majority of the thamaings are
written in prose, but some, for example, the Shwezigén
Thamaing Linka, are also written in verse. But I have not
been able to find the thamaings to be of much use for pur-
poses of my present study; in fact, | have not found it posi-
sible to use any of them to any good advantage. They
do not seem to contribute much towards the history of
Buddhism of the period under review.
1
The Early Phase: ~Work of Shin Arahan

As a result of the zeal, energy, enthusiasm and sincerity
with which Shin Arahan, with Anawrahta always ready by
his side to add strength to his elbows, had devoted himself
to his noble mission, the work of propagation of the reli-
gion of Sakyamuni went apace till within a very short time
he had won thousands of converts to his side. Hundreds
from all parts of the country came forward to receive ordi-
nation and entered the sacred Order, burning with the zeal
and enthusiasm of new converts. The fame of Pagan as a
centre of the Theravada faith was thus soon firmly es!
blished. It spread even outside and crossing the waves
of the Bay of Bengal reached Ceylon where the religion
had suffered from Brahmanical persecution of the Drami-
las (=Tamils) of South India. The Dramilas were none
but the Colas who were at the zenith of their power at this
time and they were making themselves felt in Ceylon.
The Ceylonese king Vijayabahu’® (1065—1120) sought
Anawrahta’s aid against the Colas, but before any help

Google
THERAVADA BUDDHISM IN BURMA 27

was available he was himself able to inflict a defeat on the
Colas. But the ravages on the religion the Colas had done

needed repair. Scriptures had become so rare and monks so
few that it was difficult to convene a chapter and make valid
ordinations according to the rules of the Vinaya. Vijaya-
bahu, therefore, sent ships to request Anawrahta for scrip-
tures and monks" and the Pagan King gladly complied.
He not only sent the monke and scriptures asked for, but
added a white elephant asa present for the King of Cey-
Jon, asking in return the Tooth-relic of the Buddha which
was the property of the Ceylon king. Vijayabahu was
not slow to return the courtsey; he parted with the sacred
relic and made a present of it to Anawrahta.

But this was not the only sacred relic that Anawrahta
claims to have come in possession of. Earlier he is said
to have secured some relics from Tharckittara. These
relics he enshrined in the great Shwezigin stiipa which he
had begun to build at the advice of Shin Arahan. When
he had finished the three terraces, there arrived from Ceylon
the tooth-relic which also was enshrined in the great

stiipa.”* But the monarch did not live to see the comple-

10 The account is given both in the Hmannan (I, 264) and the
Mahdvamsa, LV. 4 and LVIII, 8 as well as in the Cullavamsa Miller,
in his Ancient Inscriptions in Ceylon (1883) fixes the date of Vijaya-
bahu’s request for monks and scriptures at 1071 A.D. or just after.
According to the Hmannan, the name of the Ceylonese king was
Dhitusena; while according to the Great Chronicle the Ceylon king
was Grisamghabodhi, which, however, is argued against by the
‘Hannan.

11 Hmannan, pp. 88-89.

12 The Shwezigén “is a solid pagoda of the kind so common
all over Burma; yet it attracts worshippers daily while the finer
temples built by his successors are deserted. Its popularity is due
to the exceptional sanctity of the relics, and to the shrines of the
entire pantheon of tho thirty-seven Nit spirits who, as if were,
have come circling round in homage to these relics. If anyone
doubts the debt Burma owes to Buddhism, or wishes to seo what
she would have been without it, let him wander here and contem-
plate these barbarous images of tho heathen gods. Asked why he
allowed them, Anawrahta said, ‘Men will not come for the sake

Google ar
28 NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

tion of this great undertaking."* The great stipa was
completed by his worthy son Kyanzittha. Anawrahta
built quite a good number of other shrines, all dedicated
to the religion to which he became devotedly attached.
All these are said tocontain the sacred tooth-relic of the
Buddha which, in response to Anawrahta’s prayer were
miraculously reproduced from the Tooth-relic of Ceylon !

Anawrahta’s contribution to the newly-established
faith was yet something more than building of these shrines
and these mad campaigns and prayers for sacred relics.
He sent four ministers of the religion to bring copies of
the Three Pitakas from Ceylon, and having brought them,
he had them compared by Shin Arahan with the copies of
the Pitakas brought by the latter from Sudhammanagara
or Thaton. Shin Arahan also edited and corrected them in
the light of the copies brought from Ceylon which admitted-
ly were more reliable.’*

Anawrahta’s is a heroic and remarkable personali
the history of Burma. In a single lifetime he had esta-
blished and spread a true religion throughout a large por-
tion of his dominions, and suppressed all heretical sects
and beliefs; from a chieftainship he raised his principality
to the position of the most powerful political authority in
Burma, and by: introducing the Talaing culture of Lower
Burma to civilise the north, he set the people of Mramma-
desa (as distinct from Ramafifiadesa) on the road to cul-
ture and civilisation that made the annals of the Pagan
dynasty a most glorious record in the history of mankind.

Anawrahta was unfortunate in his successor, Sawlu ;
for according to the Hmannan, he “‘lived only in the enjoy-
ment of worldly pleasures. He preferred not his father’s

of the true faith. Let them come for their old gods, and gradu-
ally they will bo won over” ” Harvey, History of Burma, p. 88.

18 Anuruddhardja yeva cattaro mahdyodhe Sihaladipam pesetvd
tato pitakattayam dnesi. Sthaladipato anitapitakattayena, Sudham-
mopurato anitapitakattayam afiflamafifiam yojetvd samsandetvd
Arhantathero Vimamsesi. Sdsanavumsa, p. 64,

Google
THERAVADA BUDDHISM IN BURMA 2”

work of merit.” But in Kyanzittha Buddhism found a
Joyal and devoted servant.

He completed the building of the Shwezigén, but his
chief work of merit was the building of the Ananda Temple,
the one monument which has spread the name of Pagan
beyond the boundaries of Burma, and which, with its
white garb bathed in the tropical sun, shines as the crown
jewel on the head of F: tern architecture. There at
the end of the western aisle in the darkness of the lofty
but narrow vaults stands a colossal statue of Buddha
Gotama flanked by two kneeling figures with hands
clasped in adoration. One is a crowned head, that of the
devout founder-king Kyanzittha, the other a shaven head,
that of the royal primate, Shin Arahan, the teacher of
Kyanzittha and the man who led him to the throne by the
hand at the time of his coronation. Inside the first corridor
formed by the outer and inner walls of the temple there
are eighty niches containing sculptures representing the
incidents of Buddha's own life until the attainment of
the bodhi. The series begins with the request of the gods in
the Tugita heaven asking the Boddhisattva to be reborn in
his very last existence and to become the Buddha, and the
succession of scenes follows the Pradakgina. Besides these,
there are in each of the four porticoes sixteen sculptures,
mostly repeating themselves, but representing like those
of the corridors, scenes from the last existence of the
Master. They include scenes like the Palileyya incident,
the descent from the Trayastrirhsa heaven, the subjection
of the Nalagiri elephant, etc. In the small vaulted passages
intersecting the corridors more stone sculptures are found
representing scenes mostly belonging to the durenidana
cycle and illustrating the ant lives of the Buddha, i.e.,
the Jatakas. The eighty scenes in the outer corridor of
the Ananda Temple are devoted to represent the principal
events of the Bodhisatty: st existence, from the time of
his birth to that of \ttainment of the bodhi. A few of
the events of this subsequent career up to the Parinirvana

Google
30 NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

are also represented in the Ananda, but they are all on the
walls of the four porticoes. It has been very ably argued
by Mon. Duroiselle that the present arrangement and dis-
tribution of the scenes on the sculptures of the porticoes
was not the original one; and he has been able to show
that all the events subsequent to the attainment of Buddha-
hood must certainly have been represented in the sixty-
four scenes of the porticoes. Whatever that may have
been, the arrangement of the scenes on the walls of the
corridor as well as those few of the porticoes follows a
very well-known order, that of the Nidanakatha. It
proves, therefore, that in addition to every important event
in the life of the Master which had by this time become
well-known in Upper Burma, the Nidanakatha was also
known and studied at least by those who ministered to be
religious needs of the people.

But it was not the incidents of the last existence alone
of the Master that were known to the new converts of the
faith ; the Jataka stories also were equally well-known by
this time and the Ananda bears eloquent testimony to it.
The basement and the terraces of the temple are orna-
mented with a huge wealth of glazed terracotta plaques.
The plaques on the basement walls relate themselves to
two’ important phases of the Buddha’s attainment of the
‘bodhi,’ namely, the attack of Mara and his retinue on the
Buddha, and the eventual jubilation among the gods who
came to glorify him. Esch plaque is inscribed at the
bottom with a short legend in Talaing. The second storey
is also similarly embellished ; here also there is a wealth of
glazed tiles illustrating five hundred and thirty-seven Jatakas,
the entire series of minor Jataka stories. The jubilation
plaques are numbered and the title of each Jataka is given
in Pali. On the walls of the upper terraces there are nearly
four hundred bas-reliefs which illustrate the last Ten Great
Jatakas, so that each Jataka story occupies on an average,
about forty bas-reliefs for itself, each relief being explained
by a legend in Talaing inscribed at the bottom. M. Duroi-

Google
THERAVADA BUDDHISM IN BURMA 31

selle notices this series to be a most interesting and unique
feature which is found only at the Ananda. According to
his counting, the number of these reliefs from the base-
ment to the uppermost terrace is one thousand four hundred
and seventy-two."

My purpose in giving an account of the stone-sculptures
and terracotta plaques of the Ananda is to show the extent
to which Theravada Buddhism with its myths and legends
had already taken root in Pagan in less than two scores
of years since it had been introduced for the first time in
the royal capital. These sculptures and terracotta plaques
served lustrative texts to hundreds of those who daily
flocked to worship at the temple. In employing them as
such, Kyanzittha and Shin Arahan only adopted an usual
and well-known method of popularising the religion
among the ordinary people and it was perhaps one of
their methods of the propagation of the Faith. The same
method was also employed in later temples and stidpas,
obviously with the same object in view, for example, in
the Petleik temples, in the Shwezigén, in the Mingalazedi,
in the Nagayén and others. These sculptures and the
terracotta plaques are of special historical importance inas-
much as they afford us indubitable proof of the knowledge
of the Jatakas and the Nidanakathé in Upper Burma in
the last quarter of the eleventh century.

It was in the seclusion of the Ananda temple that
Acariya Dhammasendpati, according to the Gandhavarhs:
(pp. 63, 73), wrote his Karika, a grammatical work in P;
He is also said to have composed to other works, the Eti-
mdasamidipani and the Manohara. The same source tells

14 Duroiselle, The Stone Sculptures in the Ananda Temple,
A.R.A.8.1., 1913-14, whero he gives a long and full description
of the temple and the stone sculptures inside it. An elaborate
Sccount of the bas-relicfy and tho explanatory epigraphs is, how-
ever, continued in Ep. Birm, U, i and ii.

Google .
E NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

us that Dhammasenapati wrote his Karika at the instance
of the monk Nanagambhira who was a resident of Pagan."*

What a softening influence Buddhiem wielded on the
lives of these sturdy and swarthy tyrants will be evident
from an extract from one of the inscriptions set up by
Kyanzittha.

“With loving kindnes: shall king Kyanzittha wipe
away the tears of those who are parted from their trusted
friends. ...his people shall be unto him as a child to its
mother’s bosom......he shall soften the hearts of those who
intend evil. With wisdom, which is even asa hand, shall
king Kyanzittha draw open the bar of the Gate of Heaven,
which is made of gold and wrought with gems."""*

It ranks almost as literature, and the typically Buddhist
sentiment in it is unmistakable. It is a pity that neither
the local chronicles, nor the Sdsanavarnsa dwells at any
length on the service Kyanzittha rendered to the cause of
the religion. The Sdsanavarisa has not even a passing
reference to the great personality or to his work. Yet,
besides being personally deeply influenced by the new
religion and performing various works of merit, it was he
who was the first Burmese king to restore the holy shrine
at Bodh-G: and who in his zeal and enthusiasm for
the new faith exhorted a Cola king to accept Buddhism.
His exhortations were successful.

“King Kyanzittha gathered together gems of divers
kinds and sent them in a ship to build up the holy temple
at Budhgaya, and to offer lights which should burn for
ever there. Thereafter, king Kyanzittha builded anew,
making them finer than before, the great buildings of king
Asoka for they were old and in ruins. In this respect no
other king is like king Kyanzittha, Thereafter, he present-
ed all the lords of the Satgha who dwelt in the city of

15 Bode, Pali Literature of Burma, p. 16 and f, n. I.
16 The Great Talaing Inscription of the Shwesig6n Pagoda,
Ep. Birminica, 1, ii, 90,

Google
THERAVADA BUDDHISM IN BURMA 33

Arimaddanapura with four necessaries on every occasion.
In that respect, too, no other king is like him.........."7

“At the same time king Kyanzittha heard that a Cola
lord had arrived, and he bethought him that apart from
the Three Jewels there is no other single thing that can
give great happiness in this world or in the world to come,
or confer Nirvana upon all beings: the Three Jewels
alone can give it. Therefore, he wrote concerning the
grace of the Jewel of the Lord (Buddha), the Jewel of his
Law (Dhamma) and the Jewel of his Clergy (Samngha),
with vermilion ink upon leaf of gold and sent it unto the
Cola Lord. Thus hearing the grace of the Buddha, the
Law and the Clergy by reason of king Kyanzittha’s send-
ing word unto him, the Cola lord with all his retinue cast
off adhesion to false doctrine; he saw, he was pleased,
he was happy......77""

Kyanzittha was fortunate in his love-child born of
Thambula in exile. For when having reigned for 28 years
he fell sick unto death, this son, Yazakumara, le
solemn offerings and set up a stone-post which Min
its place, at the Myazedi Pagoda south of Pagan.

The post is inscribed on its four faces with the same
matter in four different languages—Pali, Talaing, Pyu
and Burmese. Extracts from it are worth quoting for the
sentiments expressed, as well as for incidental references
to a number of venerable theras of the time, and to the
practice of dedication of slaves to the shrines.

“Glory and honour be to Buddha ! In the one thou-
sand six hundred and twenty-eighth year of religion
(1084 A.D.) Kyanzittha became king in this city of Arimad-
danapura......Now the king having reigned twenty-eight
years fell sick unto death. Then Yazakumar......remem-
bering the benefits wherewith the king had nourished him,
made a golden Buddha and went into the presence and

17 The Third Talaing Inscription at the Shwesandaw Pagoda,
Prome, Ep. Birminica, I, ii, 163. 18 Ibid.

3

Google
Ey NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

showed it to the king saying, “This Golden Buddha have
I, thy slave made to assist my lord, The three villages
of slaves which my lord gave unto me, | now dedicate unto
this Buddha. May my lord approve!’ Then was the king
well’ pleased and said, ‘Well done ! Well done !" And
in the presence of the image, of the primate, of the
venerable Lords Muggaliputtatissa, Sumedha, Brahmapal,
Brahmadiw, Son, and very learned Sarnghasena, in the
presence of all these Venerable Lords the king made
offering of poured water. When it was done, the son of
the beloved queen made this cave-temple with a golden
spire and enshrined therein the golden Buddha. And in
dedicating this shrine and Buddha, the queen's son, brought
up the men of Sakmunalon, one village, Rapay, one village,
Henbuiy, one village, all those three slave villages, and
made offering of poured water for the golden Buddha and
the shrine wherein he had enshrined it; and thus he prayed,
‘May this act of mine be unto me for the attainment of
divine wisdom! If any hereinafter, be it my son, grand-
son, kinsman, or any other, oppress the slaves whom I
have dedicated unto this Buddha may he never behold
the most high Buddha Arimittiya (Maitreya).’””

Shin Arahan, the Primate, had grown old, and his days
were gradually drawing to aclose. It was early in Alaun-
geithu’s reign (1112-67) that he breathed his last, about the
year 1115 A.D.,?° full of years—he was about 80—and full of
glory. Few in life are destined to witness so successful
an achievement of the ideals and missions of their lives.
Shin Arahan perhaps achieved more than he had dreamt;
his was a record’ of unbroken chain of succe:
mere chance that brought him before the and once
the king as won over, the rest followed almost as a matter
of course till finally he saw himself as the Primate of the
kingdom and the acknowledged head of a church organi-

Tt was a

19 Myazedi Inscription, Ep, Birminica, I, i.
20 An. Rep. A.8.B., 1919, p. 23,

Google
THERAVADA BUDDHISM IN BURMA 35

sation that embraced within its fold hundreds of monas-
teries and thousands of monks ready to carry the message
of the religion into the remotest parts of the far-flung
kingdom. He performed almost a miracle; in almost a
lifetime he with the help of his patrons was successful in
keeping the degenerate Aris at bay and putting a definite
check to their vile and abominable practices, and in esta-
heathen
" one of the purest faiths mankind has ever known.
It is due to him than to any body else that Burma owes
to-day her allegiance to Theravada Buddhism and the
Burmese people their admission into the world of culture
and ci ation.

Shin Arahan was succeeded by Panthagu, son of Seinny-
ekmin, as Primate. His royal disciple, Alaungsithu, was
a devout and faithful follower of the religion. Along with
the elevation of Panthagu to the position Archbishop,
‘the king presented the elder Ananda and the elder
Bodhi, both men fulfilled with all virtuous qualities,
with golden litters of state and pole and awning.’ He also
exhorted Letyaminnan, the prince of Arakan, who was
restored by the Pagan king to the throne of his fathers, to
repair the shrine at Buddhagaya which had been subject to
damage. Letyaminnan, therefore, under the guidance of
Panthagu, tothe Primate, sent an envoy with men and
money to Bodhgaya to do all that was necessary to repair
the sacred shrine of Vajrasana. The work was executed
with care and the fact is recorded on stone at the spot.”*
He built the great Thatpyififiu (Sabbafifia—All-knowing or
Omniscient, i.e., the Buddha) temple in 1144, dedicated to
the Buddha and the Shwegu which stands close by. In
this small but beautiful temple he was destined to die,
and on its walls can still be read the long inscription re-

21 Rejendralal Mitra, Buddhagayd ; Furgusson, History of
Indian and Eastern Architecture, I, p. 78 ; An. Rep. A.8.B. 1011,
P. 181,

Google
NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

sentiments of the king:

By this my gift, whatever boon I seek,

It is the best of boons, to profit all;

by this abundant merit I desire

Here nor hereafter no angelic pomp

of Brahmas, Suras, Maras’; nor the state

And splendours of a monarch; nay, not even
To be the pupil of the conqueror.

But I would build a causeway sheer athwart
The river of Sarhsdra, and all folk

Would speed across thereby until they reach
The Blessed City. I myself would cross

And drag the drowning over. Aye, myself
Tamed, | would tame the wilful; comforted,
Comfort the timid; wakened, wake the asleep ;
Cool, cool the burning; freed, set free the bound.
Tranquil and led by the good doctrines I

Would hatred calm. The three immortal states,
Greed, hate, delusion, rooted all in self,

O may they die, wherever born in me |
. . . .

As the best of men
Forsaking worldly wealth and worthless fame
Fled, for he saw their meaning...s0 would I
All worldly wealth forsaking draw me near
Religion and the threefold course ensue.

I would fulfil hereafter, great and small,
Those rules the Teacher gave for our behoof.
Borne through the elements the spotless moon
Outdazzles all the constellated
So I delighting in the Master's lore,

The Saint's Religion, virtuously yoked,

Would shine among disciples, I would know
Sutta, and Abhidhamma, Vinaya,

The Master's mind, his ninefold doctrines fraught

Google

in Pali verse the beautiful and typically Buddhist
THERAVADA BUDDHISM IN BURMA ar

With words and meaning. By the Conqueror's Law
I would do good to others and myself.
What the great Sage forbids I would not do.
. * .
By merits of this act | would behold
Mettaya, captain of the world, endued
With two and thirty emblems, where he walks
Enhaloed on a rainbow pathway fair.
. . . .
There might I hear good Law, and bending low
Offer the four things needful to the Lord
And all his monks, till clad in virtues eight,
Informed by such a Teacher, I become
Buddha in the eyes of spirits and Men.”*
Alaungsithu’s death was followed by a fratricidal
struggle between the two brothers, Narathu and Min-
shinsaw. At the request of Narathu, Panthagu, the
Primate, had to intervene, but the intervention led to
unfortunate results and Panthagu in scorn and disgust
left the shores of Burma and went to Ceylon, refusing to
live in a kingdom ruled over by so vile a king as Narathu,
The incidents leading to this unhappy sequel is briefly
but vividly related in the Hmannan, and it is difficult for
a modern historian to improve upon the account. When
Minshinsaw heard that his royal father, Alaungsithu, was
no more, he began marching with his army towards Pagan
to occupy the throne. Narathu scented danger, and
designed a secret plot by which he was to secure the throne
without a drop of blood. So he went to Panthagu who
“was worshipped like the Lord by the whole country of
Pagan” (Hmannan), and said:
* ‘It will take long if thus he (Minshinsaw) marcheth
with his army, and the home affairs of the kingdom
will suffer. Lo! I, thy servant, am here already.

22 J.B.R.S., 1920, English rendering in verse by Maung Tin
and Luce, “Shwegugyi Pagoda Inscription.”

Google
$8 NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

Call my brother, and let him come speedily with a
sword and a horse only and ascend the throne!” But
Panthagu, the elder replied: ‘If! call him and he
come, and thou abide without raising him to be king;
Ihave sinned against the saintly Law.’ So Narathu
swore a mighty oath that he would shoulder his
brother's sword and set him on the throne. And
Panthagu the elder believed the oath sworn by
Kalagya and went to the place of Minshinsaw and
told him all. And Minshinsaw, hearing the words of
the elder, trusted them, and he set him on a single
barge of gold and came downstream. When he
reached Lappan port, Narathu, according to the oath
he had sworn, went down to the boat and shouldering
his brother’s sword, he raised and set him on the
throne. After his anointing, his food was poisoned and
that night he died.

Next day Narathu was crowned king and the whole
people came to offer allegiance to him. But Panthagu,
though old, would not do so. When he heard that
Minshinsaw was poisoned and dead, he burnt with fury
and anger, and going to the palace cried:

“ ‘Thou vile king! Thou foul king! Thou fearest not
the woe thou shalt suffer in Sarnsdra. Though now
thou reignest, thinkest thou that thy body shalt not
grow old, not die? A king more damned than thou
there is not in all the world! ‘Nay Master’, said
Narathu, ‘I shouldered my brother's sword and set
him on the throne.’ But the noble master made
reply: ‘A man more vile and foul than thou there is
not in the world of men! And he departed and went
to the island of Ceylon.”* (1167)

And he did not come back so long as Narathu was in
the land of the living.

THERAVADA BUDDHISM IN BURMA 80

tl
Mramma Sarngha and Sihala Sarngha: Monastic Scholarship.

Narathu was succeeded by Naratheifka (1171-74). He
iad, it seems, neither the mind nor the opportunity to do
anything for the religion which his fathers served and
patronised with such great care and devotion. But his suc-
cessor Narapatisithu’s reign (1174-1211) is important for
more than one reason. He will be remembered for his
noble patronage of the religion, and more for the fact
that his reign saw the first formation of the Sihala Samgha
or Ceylonese Church in Burma and the beginning of the
long rivalry between the Sihala Sarngha and the Mramma
Sarngha or Burmese Church that continued to disturb the
Buddhist clergy of Burma till it ended three hundred years
later in the final triumph of the Sihala Sarngha.

Narapatisithu himself was a king of advanced views,
and devoted to the new religion ; ‘and in order that men
might follow the Path and reach fruition in nirvana’ he
built a number of ‘works of merit,’ setting up colossal
images of Buddha in all of them. Among the bigger
temples he built for the furtherance of the religion were
the majestic Gawdawpalin, the Sulamani and the Dam-
mayazaka; of smaller but nevertheless beautiful works
were the Mimalaungkyaung and the Chaukpala. ‘‘He suc-
coured with the things needful scholars of the noble Order
learned in in the commentaries and subcommentaries,
who practised piety throughout all the homeland, and they
gave instruction in the books.”* Narapati’s reign was
peaceful and prosperous, and was one of the brightest
epochs of monastic scholarship in Burma.

Panthagu, the Primate, lived in self-banishment for
only a few couples of years. From his refuge in Ceylon
he heard of the devoted patronage of the newly-crowned
king, Narapatisithu, and soon after the accession of this
monarch he returned home (1173) hoping to spend the

% Glass Palace Chronicle, p. 142.

Google
40 NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

rest of his days in peace amidst the purer atmosphere of
a more prosperous and benevolent rule. He was warmly
received and was again treated as Primate; but he was
already old—about ninety—and did not live long to enjoy
the king's patronage.

Panthagu was succeeded in the Primateship by a Talaing
monk, Uttarajiva by name, a pupil of Shin Ariyavarnsa, the
elder of Thaton. Uttarajiva, like Shin Arahan, claimed
to belong to the direct line (acariya-parampara) of Sona
and Uttara. The religion in Ceylon had for some time been
in disrepute, and had “fallen into soilure and decay,”’ as
the Hmannan puts it, perhaps again owing to Brahmanical
persecution by the Tamils (Dramilas). But Parakramabahu
proved himself to be a strong and resolute king; he saved
the religion from Tamil persecution, and initiated a re-
formation of the church organisation. This led toa re-
awakening of religious activities in the island. The fervour
rose to such a height that the fame of the Church reached
the Burmese capital,** where it roused the eagerness and
enthusi of Uttarajiva for a pilgrimage to the island.
He took with him

“many disciples of the Order and went to worship
the Mahazedi pagoda in the island of Ceylon.
Among these disciples was a novice of about twenty
years of age from the village Capata, on the outskirts
of the Bassein town.”*......When Uttarajiva the elder,
Capata the novice (so named from his native village),
and the many disciples of the Order reached the
island of Ceylon, they had conversed with the elders
‘of Ceylon concerning the religion, and, inquiring of

24 Evidence of a very active maritime intercourse between Ceylon
and Burma during this time is afforded by Ceylonese Chronicles
as well as Burmese inscriptions of the period. See, for example,
Mahdvamsa, Ixxvi 10-75, for a quarrel between Ceylon and Burma
in about 1180 A.D. when the Ceyloneso king despatched an ex-
pedition against Burma,

25 Glass Palace Chronicle, pp. 14243.

Google
THERAVADA BUDDHISM IN BURMA ai

each other's lineage, they found that the elders in
Ceylon island were heirs of Shin Mahinda, the noble
saint, and Uttarajiva the elder was of the lineage of
Shin Sona the elder and Uttara the elder. Then they
ordained Capata the novice, saying, ‘let us perform
a priestly act of pure validity’.”*

Capata was thus received into the Ceylonese religious
brotherhood.

The ordination of Capata was to have far reaching re-
sults; in fact, it was the first frank admission of the supe-
riority of the Ceylonese over the Burmese Order. Evidently
the elders of Ceylon did not consider the ordination cere-
mony by the Burmese brotherhood as a priestly act of
pure validity and the Burmese monks were not, therefore,
considered validly ordained, the obvious reason being accord-
ing to the Kalyani inscriptions as well as the Sdsanavarhsa,
the Hmannan and other chronicles, that they belonged to
an Gcariya-parampara of lesser aristocracy. However, a
section of Burmese monks must have had a very great
respect for the Ceylonese brotherhood and their monastic
conduct and learning, for, when Uttarajiva, after the ordi-
nation of Capata came back with hit ples of the Order
to Burma, he was hailed as the First Pilgrim of Ceylon.
Already Shin Arahan had admitted the comparatively
better reliability of the Ceylonese Pitakas than those he
had brought from Thaton; and now was admitted the
superiority of the Ceylonese Order itself.

Capata did not return home with his teacher Uttarajiva 5
he stayed behind in Ceylon and for full ten rainy seasons
he studied and acquired a knowledge of the Three Pitakas
and their commentaries. He thus earned the designation
of a Mahathera.

“Being now desirous of returning to Pugama he re-
flected thus: ‘If | were to return home alone, and
if, in the event of the death of Uttarajiva mahathera,

2% Ibid, p. 143.
6

Google
42 NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

I did not wish to associate with the monks of Pugima
in the performance of ecclesiastical ceremonies, how
could. I, in the absence of pafica-vaggagana, perform
such functions separately? It is perhaps proper,
therefore, that | should return home in the company
of four other monks, who are well versed in the
Tipitaka.’*” After reflecting thus, he appointed Maha-
thera Sivili, a native of Tamalitthi (Tamluk in Bengal),
the Mahathera Tamalinda the son of the Raja of
Kamboj, the Mahathera Ananda, a native of Kaficipura,
and the Mahathera Rahula a native of Ceylon, to
accompany him"’?*

Capata with his four colleagues returned to Pagan (1181-82)
after having observed the vassa in a monastery at Bastein.
These five monks of the Order were called the ‘Second
Pilgrims of Ceylon.’"**

Now, Uttarajiva had died in the meanwhile and was
buried a few days before Capata and his company could
arrive at Pagan. So when they arrived they went to the
chaplain’s grave and worshipped there. The demise of
Uttarajiva gave rise to a very curious situation in the
Burmese church organisation, due no doubt to the high-
browed and supercilious attitude of Capata. But it is best
told in the Kalyani inscriptions which is quoted almost
verbatim in the Glass Palace Chronicle. Capata is said to
have addressed his companions thus :

“*As the Mahatheras of Ceylon associated with our
teacher the venerable Uttarajivamahathera (at the
time of his visit to Ceylon), in the performance of ecc-
lesiastical ceremonies, it is proper that we should now
perform such functions after associating ourselves with
the monks of Pugama, who are the spiritual successors

27 The Pili text of the Kalyni inscriptions. Ep. Birm., Il,
ii, p. 190, footnote 6. The passage in the Hmannan (p. 143.) is
similar in purport.

28 Tho Mon and Pali toxt of tho Kalyani inscriptions, Ep.
Birm, II, ii, pp. 190-91.

29 Glass Palace Chronicle, p. 144.

Google

THERAVADA BUDDHISM IN BURMA 43

of Sonathera and Uttarathera. However, our teacher,
the Mahathera Uttarajiva, who was a native of the Mén
country, was formerly the sole head of the Church,
but now that the Burmese monks have become
supreme, we do not wish to associate with them in the
performance of ecclesiastical ceremonies.’ Thus,
through pride, the Mahathera Capata declined to
associate with the monks of Pukham in the perfor-
mance of ecclesiastical ceremonies, and he performed
such functions separately."* °°
It was thus that the Ceylonese Church or the Sihala
Sarhgha, has been called in the Sdsanavarnsa came to be
ed in Pagan. According to the Mén text of the
Kalyan! inscriptions, this event took place “‘in the 124th year
that had elapsed since the introduction of the religion into
Pukam (Pagan), the Burmese country, from Sudhuim
(Thaton) in the Mén country,” **_ i.e. in 1181-82 A.D.
When Capata had come back to his own country, he
evidently retumed with a strong faith in Ceylonese orthodoxy.
He also believed that it was the Mahavihara alone of Ceylon
that could claim to have kept the dcariya-parampara direct
from the thera Mahinda, and that the Ceylonese Church
could alone confer the valid upasampada ordination.
Naturally enough, he was eager to establish the Ceylonese
Order in Burma obviously to bring the Burmese Order in
the direct ‘line of descent.’ But it was equally natural that
the older Burmese school would resent and resist this claim
of the Ceylonese Church. They could argue, and perhaps
they did, with equal force and logic that belonging as they
did to the direct line of descent from Sonathera and Uttara-
thera, they had as good an authority to perform a valid
ordination as the Ceylonese school itself. But reasonably
or unreasonably, their argument seems to have carried little
weight, and their influence was gradually on the wane.

80 Ep. Birm., IL. ii, pp. 191-92; ibid., footnote 7 of p. 191,
Glass Palace Chronicle, p. 144.
81 Ep. Birm., UL. ji, p. 192,

Google : oF MICHIGAN
44 NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

From the very outset the Ceylonese Church was fortunate
in receiving the warm patronage of the king. The reigning
king Narapatisithu ‘conceived a feeling of great esteem and
reverence for the five Mahatheras,” he ‘caressed and regard-
ed them beyond measure’, and he gave all the patronage
he could to this newly-founded church. He caused a raft
of boats to be put together on the river Irrawady and requested
the five Mahatheras to confer upasampada ordination on the
many monks who desired to receive it.

Many novices were ordained as monks. ‘Thus they multi-
plied in the course of time till their influence and their follow-
ing grew in numbers. The school thus founded by Capata
and his colleagues came to be known as paccagana or the
later school while the earlier or the Burmese school was
known as purimagana or the earlier school.*

But dissensions were soon in sight among these five Maha-
theras which resulted in the splitting up of the Sthala
Sarhgha into four factions. The stories of these dissensions,
not without their human interest, are elaborately told in the
local chronicles, for example, in the Hmannan and the
Kalyani inscriptions, and are briefly summarised in the
Sdsanavarhsa. Of the four Mahitheras that accompanied
Capata to Pagan, Rahula was the most erudite, but his learn-
ing was of little avail, for in a great almsgiving ceremony
held by Narapatisithu in their honour, Rahula fell desperately
in love and lost his heart to a beautiful girl. ‘He lusted
after her and delighted no more in the law of the clergy
but strove to quit the Order"’......He longed to be a layman
and made preparations to carry out his object. The Maha-
thera Capata and three other Mahatheras “‘repeatedly ex-
pounded religious discourses to him, in a body entreated him
to turn away from the course he had resolved to take."” But
nothing could prevent Rahula from taking his course; he
became a layman and went to Malayadipa (Malay Peninsula).
There the king of Malaya received from him instructions
“tin the meaning of the text of the whole Vinaya™ and studied

82 Sdsanavamsa, p. 67.

Google
THERAVADA BUDDHISM IN BURMA 45

the Khuddakasikkhd, a compendium of the Vinaya written
in Ceylon, with its commentary. Pleased with Rahula, he
made valuable presents to him which the thera accepted,
and as a consequence quitted the Order, became a layman,
married, finally settled down in the country, and was no more
heard of Rahula’s deflection was certainly a severe blow to
the monastic discipline of the newly-established Sihala
Sarhgha.

Soon after this Capata died, and Sivali (or Sivili) Ananda
and Tamalinda (or Tamulinda) remained to continue “‘to main-
tain the religion in splendour at Pukham"’. But differences
of opinion on questions of monastic discipline arose among
them, and readily they fell out and each founded a new
school for himself.

On a certain occasion king Narapatisithu presented the
three Mahatheras each with an elephant. In pursuance of
the rules of the Vinaya, Sivali and Tamalinda liberated their
elephants in a forest but Ananda shipped it off and made
a present of it to his relatives in Kaficlpuram, an action which
Sivali and Tamalinda considered to be against the rules of
monastic discipline, This led to secession of Ananda who
thenceforward performed his ecclesiastical ceremonies sepa-
rately from Sivali and Tamalinda.

A long while thereafter Sivali and Tamalinda disagreed
on a more important question of discipline. The latter
“sought to advance the welfare of his pupils who excelled
in wisdom, strength and courage, and by word-suggestion
obtained for them" from the pious laity the four things need-
ful. Sivali took strong exception to this indirect procese of
receiving gifts, referred to by a technical name vacivififiatti
in the Sasanavarhsa and the Kalyani inscriptions, saying that
the Buddha had disapproved such gifts.** After some argu-
mentation which proved useless, Sivali refused to have any
relation with Tamalinda, and both of them founded separate
schools,

83 For the opinion of the Vinaya on this point, see, Vinaya
(Oldenberg’s Edn.) IIT, pp. 227, 258, V. 125.

Google
46 NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

“From that day forth four several sects of the Order
were known in the kingdom of Pagan. One sect of
the Order was of the race of Shin Arahan......; one
sect of the Order was of the race of Sivali the elder;
one sect of the race of Tamalinda; one of the race of
Ananda. Of these four sects that of the race of Shin
Arahan who first came from Sudhamma city was call-
ed the Former Order. Of the three elders who came
from the island of Ceylon were called the Latter
Order.""**

The Former Order or the monks who were of the
religious succession of those that came from Thaton has
been referred to in the Sdsanavarisa as the Mramma Sarngha
or Burmese Order as distinguished from the Latter Order
referred to as Sihala Sarngha in the Sasanavarhsa and the
Kalyani inscriptions, for the monks of that Order belonged
to either of the three sects of the religious successions of
those who had returned from Ceylon.

Sivali and Tamalinda had already attained nirogna when
Ananda died in 1245-46 (the year 607 of the Common Era).**
But their deaths did not mean the cessation of the work,
namely, the spread of the influence of the Ceylonese frater-
nity they had begun in so right earnest. Among their
disciples and followers, especially of Sivali and Ananda, there
were at least one or two who grew to be as wise as their
gurus and who were ready to carry the message of the reli-
gion outside the Mrammamandala or Upper Burma. Indeed,
even during their lifetime Ananda and Sivali had the satis-
faction of witnessing the prestige and influence of the Sihala
Sarngha spreading in the Mén or Talaing country and the
Martaban (Pali ; Muttima ; Mén ; Mattama) region under the
willing patronage of king Narapatisithu,

One may assume that the carrying away by Anawrahta
of all sacred texts and almost the entire clergy of Thaton

%4 Glass Palace Ohronicle, pp. 146-47; seo also Kalynl inscrip-
tions, Ep, Birm., TIT. ii, p. i

THERAVADA BUDDHISM IN BURMA 7

had practically strangled Buddhism in the Talaing country,
end the realm had reverted to its primitive faith or faiths.
Anawrahta’s sack of Thaton was no doubt a severe blow to
the religion in the Talaing country, but there is hardly any
reason to think that the light once burning bright was alto-
gether extinguished. Indeed, there must have been centres
of the religion and monastic scholarship in the interior re-
gions of the realm where Anawrahta’s fury hardly pene-
trated. Conquering raids in ancient days were often con-
fined to the area where it actually took place; the rest of the
country was also affected, of course, but private life, espe-
cially monastic life in its seclusion and solitude, went on ‘in
much the usual way, and in those days of difficult communi-
cation in the interiors, it was not sometimes affected at all.
Moweover, it is possible that the Talaing country, so intimate-
ly in touch as it was with Ceylon, Further In
Indian mainland through maritime intercourse received from
time to time emigrants of monks and imports of religious
texts which infused new vitality in the old organisation which
had been robbed of its glory through Anawrahta’s exhi-
bition of power. And then, the Burmese who had now
come in possession of the realm of the Talaings could have
no possible objection in the continuance of the religion they
themselves had adopted in that country. It was rather
likely that they would encourage further propagation of the
Faith under the aegis of their rule. In fact, the Kalyani ins-
criptions seem to indicate that a fraternity of monks, eccle-
siastical successors. of Sonamahathera and Uttaramahathera,
had been flourishing at Dala and Martaban regions when
during the reign of Narapatisithu the Ceylonese fraternity
came to be established there.

Sariputta, a native of Padippajeyya village (near Ran-
gccn)} in the province of Dala, was a samanera of the frater-
nity monks who belonged to the line of descent from Sona
and Uttara. But going to Pagan, he received the upasam-
pada ordination at the hands of the Anandamahithera, and
came thus to belong to the Mahavihara tradition of Ceylon.
His deep knowledge of the Dhamma and Vinaya attracted

Google

wAket sone oree

4g NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

the notice of the reigning king Narapati who wanted to make
him his preceptor. But as Sariputta suffered from a physi-
cal deformity (one of the big toes of the monk was too
short), the king could not offer him the appointment. But
he “‘presented him with a great many offerings, conferred
on him the title of Dhammavilasathera and dismissed him
with the injunction: ‘Do you maintain the ‘religion in
splendour in the Mén country’."*

“Dhammavilasa proceeded to the Mén country, and
taught the Dhamma and the Vinaya to a great many
monks in Dala. The people of the Mén country called
the fraternity of these monks at Dala the ‘‘Sihalapakk-
habhikkhusarhgha,” and designated as the “Ariyarhan-
tapakkhabhikkhusarhgha,” the fraternity of monks
who were already in the country and were the eccle-
siastical successors of Sonamahithera and Uttaramaha-
thera.""°7

The “‘Ariyarhantapakkhabhikkhusamgha" came later on
to be known as the “‘fraternity of the Mahathera of the Krom
(Kamboja) Market,’ and still afterwards as the “‘fraternity
of the Krom Market,” and finally simple as the “Krom
fraternity.”"** However, at that time in the city of Dala,
there were two fraternities, the Ariyarhanta fraternity and the
Ceylon fraternity.

The Ceylonese fraternity established itself also in the
Martaban region where the Krom or Kamboja, i.e., the Ari-
yarhanta fraternity had already been in existence. But very

36 Ep. Birm, Il. ii, p. 196; Sdsanavamsa, p. 41. The Sdsana~
vamsa account is a bit different, but scoms to be more plausible.
Sariputta at that time had grown extremely old and feeble. ‘Tho
king, out of consideration for him, did not like to burden him at that
age with the heavy and responsible work of the royal dcariya, He,
however, presented him with offerings and conferred the title of
Dhammavilisa on him. The king also charged him with the work
of purifying the religion in the Mén country which meant that
he was to represent the Ceylonese Church there.

37 Ep. Birm., Ill. ii, p. 196.

38 Ep. Birm., IIT. ii, pp. 196-97, where an explanation is given
why the fraternity was so named.

Google
THERAVADA BUDDHISM IN BURMA 0

soon the Ceylonese fraternity in Martaban came, however,
to be divided into five different sects. It may be observed
that the local, i.c., Mramma Sargha or Arahanta Sarhgha,
whatever we may like to call it, so long as its power and
influence counted in the religious life of the country, was
one undivided Order and was never split up into sects, while
the Sthala Sarngha from the very beginning though believing
in the common Mahavihara orthodoxy and firmly holding
to the Ceylonese tradition, showed signs of dissensions within
itself which led to the splitting up of the Order into different
sects. It was so in Pagan, it was the same story in Marta-
ban. It is no doubt very difficult to find out what was there
in the tradition of the Ceylonese fratemity that led to such
dissensions; but I think it may be said,—and this is indi-
cated by the Kalyani inscriptione—** that the Sthala Sarngha
‘was more concerned with the Vinaya, i.e., with the rules of
conduct of monastic life; and any infringement of the rules,
or any new interpretation of the rules other than the tradi-
tional and generally accepted ones, by any leading member
of the fraternity led to dissensions, and eventually to the
founding of new sects, of course within the Order.

In Martaban the successors of Sivali (or Sivili), Ananda
and Tamalinda, all of the Ceylonese fraternity, established
three different sects. Besides these, there were two other
sects founded respectively by Buddhavarhéamahathera and
Mahasamimahithera otherwise known as Mahanaga, Both
of them were preceptors of the queen (aggamahesi) of Mut-
tima, and both having gone to Ceylon received their tr
ing there.“ They thus came to belong to the Mahavihara
Gcariya-parampara, but they came back to their native
country, they began to perform their ecclesiastical ceremonies
separately, and thus gave rise to two more sects. No
reason, of their separation is given, but presumably it was
on certain rules of monastic conduct. This will be evident
from the fact, noted in the Kalyani inscriptions, that ‘the Cey-

99 Ibid, pp. 198-99.

40 Sdsanavamsa, p. 42; Ep. Birm., op. cit., pp. 198.99, f.n. 6,
p. 198.

7

Google
Cy NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

lon clergy who were of the fraternity of Ananda‘ screened
(themselves with a) cloth to eat (their) rice. When people
invited (them to a ) sted, they were not able to eat in the
house, (but) returned to eat (in the) monastery." And ‘the
Ceylon fraternity who were successors of the Pupils of Maha-
thera Tamalinda were styled teachers of the minister of the
silk cloth screen‘? which means at least that they used the
silk cloth as a screen. Strangely enough, it was on such
flimsy and trivial monastic rules that dissensions took place
giving rise to contending sects. Naturally, therefore, these
sectarian differences on petty questions of procedure and
discipline led to the degenerations of the religious orders.
Such an unfortunate state of the religion is reflected in the
Kalyani inscriptions which relate rather candidly :

“In all these sects of clergy......there were none who
were well-versed in the Tipitaka, that were wise (and)
qualified to come (and) investigate (and) ascertain
(matters) concerning ecclesiastical ceremonies. The
clergy of these various fraternities......would say, ‘We,
indeed, are wise and qualified’.

and they, according to their own light would perform various
ecclesiastical ceremonies, each fraternity going its own way
and performing the ceremonies separately.”

Narapatisithu died in 1210, and was succeeded by Htilo~
minle (1210-34), one of his five sons whom the dying king
had enjoined to rule with mercy and justice and together
in perfect amity and good-will. Htilominle was a devout
Buddhist and the religion shone bright in his reign, though
not with equal brilliance as in that of his father. He was
the builder of his Sittana pagoda and of the Mahabodhi, an
unsuccessful imitation of the temple at Bodhgaya, and the
Htilominle temples, all in Pagan. He also completed the
unfinished temple of his father, the Gawdawpalin. It ia
no wonder that he proved to be a good patron of the religion.

41 Ep. Birm., op. cit., p. 198. fn. 7.
42 Ibid, p. 199. f.n, 2.
43 Ibid, p. 199. fn. 5 and 9.

Google
THERAVADA BUDDHISM IN BURMA 61

But his son, Kyaswa (1234-50) was even more devout
than his father. It was perhaps the Pagan Sarhgha that
gave him the significant title of “Dhammaraja.”

“He had compassion on all the people, both lay-
man and monks, as though they were children of his
house. He read the Three Pitakas nine times over.
Divers interpretations of the Pali commentaries and
subcommentaries, he pondered on it in the meeting of
questions there was none to equal him. Seven times
a day he studied with the noble Order. For the sake
of the palace ladies he composed the Paramatthabindu,
that they might know of mind and the qualities of mind,
matter, nirvana, forms of being and pereonality. He
would not even lend an ear to affairs of the villages or
kingdom. Whenever there was any enquiry to be
made, power exercised, he caused his son Uzana,
the heir-apparent, to dispose thereof.’

According to the Pifakatthamain as well as the Gandha-
varhsa and Sdsanavarisa Kyaswa was the author of another
‘book, Saddabindu,* a treatise on grammar. Kyaswa’s
daughter seems to have been very much interested in Bud-
hist learning; to her is ascribed the authorship of a book,
Vibhattyattha, a little work on Pali Vibhaktis or case-end-
inga.“*

Kyaswa was indeed, the last great patron and protector
of the religion and religious scholarship in the long line of
kings of Pagan. He was unfortunate in his successors ; his
son Uzama (1250-54) was a pleasure-seeker while the grand-
son Narathihapate (1254-87) the last king of the dynasty, a
‘ewarthy tyrant. He built the Mingalazedi pagoda in Pagan,
and set up an inscription which, though written in self-glori-
fication, is, unwittingly of course, a sarcastic commentary
written by himself on his life. What more could one expect

44 Glass Palace Chronicle, p. 185.
45. Pifakatthamain, pp. 45, 70; Gandha, pp. 64, 73; Sdsano, 76.
set also Dr. Bode, p. 25.
46 Sasana, p. 77; Bode, p. 25.

Google
52 NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

from a pompous glutton who speaks of himself in the follow-
ing way! :

“King Narathihapate styled Siritribhuvanatitya-para-
madhammaraja, the supreme commander of a vast
army of thirty-six million soldiers, the swallower of
three hundred dishes of curry daily, being desirous of
attaining the bliss of Nirvana, erected a pagoda. In
it he enshrined fifty-one gold and silver statuettes of
kings and queens, lords and ladies, and over those
he set up an image of Gautama Buddha in solid silver
one cubit high, on the full moon of Kahson 636 (1274
AD). A covered way was made from the palace to the
pagoda, with bamboo matting, whereon were laid rush
mate, and on these again were spread pieces of cloth
each twenty cubite in length, and at each cubit’s dis-
tance on the way there was a banner. During the cere-
mony the princes, princesses and lords cast pearls
among the Statues."""

How far removed, in attitude and sentiment, is this from
the Great Talaing Inscription of the Shwezigén Pagoda of
king Kyanzittha, or the Myazedi Inscription of Thambula,
or the Shwegugyi Inscription of Alaungsithu!

However, with Kyaswa’s death, therefore, the light that
shone in splendour in Pagan for full two centuries began to
grow dim; and though life in the monasteries no doubt went
undisturbed, monastic scholarship which depended mainly,
if not solely, on royal bounties and patronage, suffered a
great deal, while the activities of the Sathgha, now without
the favour and protection of the king, were perforce limited
and curtailed. Thus weak and emaciated, the Sarhgha faced
a new danger, the country began to show signs of political

47 Mingalazedi Pagoda Inscription, Pagan, of tho year 1274,
Inscriptions of Pagan, Pinya and Ava, 1892, p. 199.

“The Mingslazedi is a large stipa 60 common all over Burma.
Its coarse execution seems to symbolise the exhaustion of a realm}
it, was built in blood and swoat. For two centuries Pagan had
witnessed the spectacle of a whole population filled with a passion
for covering the earth’s surface with pagodas and now she was
Perishing to the drone of prayer.” Harvey, History of Burma, p, 63.

Google
THERAVADA BUDDHISM IN BURMA 63

unrest which meant unsettled condition of life, at least in the
royal capital, These political disturbances reached on the
religious life of the country and contributed their share, a
large share indeed, to the ‘dimming of the religion,” as the
chronicles put it, at this time. But before we proceed to
deal with that phase of the religion we must turn back to
have an idea of the monastic life and scholarship during the
brilliant period of religious activities under the patronage of
the Pagan dynasty.

Dr. Mabel Bode in her excellent work, The Pali Litera-
ture of Burma, gives a very good and complete account of
monastic scholarship in Burma from the reign of Anawrahta
down to the reign of Min-den-min. But no account, it seems,
can give us a vivid picture of the literature and scholastic
activities of the Kynazittha Onhmin or the Kyaukku Onhmin
or numerous other monasteries of Pagan and the interior re-
gions where away from the din and bustle of ordinary life,
the bhikkhu conforming strictly to all the duties of the
monastic Order, strove hard to master the sacred texts of the
religion. There in the darkness and solitude of the library
hall of the monastery he devoted whatever time he could,
day in and day out, in reading the works most suited to his
line of study, and writing down on palm leaves of his own, not
for earthly fame or gain, but as a work of merit. The Gandha-
varnsa, the Sasanavariisa and other chronicles give a long
list of such monk-scholars and philosophers, and a longer
list of their works, but even these lists must represent only
a fraction of the good and continuous work that was carried
‘on in the network of monasteries spread all over the country.
No subject was too unworthy for their study; and though
naturally Buddhism in all its various aspects and branches
demanded the most serious and careful attention, subjects
like grammar, logic, medicine, astrology, astronomy, polity,
law, prosody, metres, and even war; etc. claimed their time
and labour, grammar being one of the most important.‘

48 Of. the list of texts in the inscription of the Common Era
804 (—1442 A.D.). Seo also texts mentioned in other records in

Google
4 NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

This may help to give us a rough idea of the busy but silent
scholastic life in the monasteries continued through genera-
tions of thera-parampara.

We have already read of Dhammasenapati, the author of
Kanika who flourished during the reign of Kyanzittha and
worked in the monastery attached to the Ananda temple.
But the golden period of monastic scholarship in Pagan began
with the reign of Kyanzittha’s successors, in fact, from the
reign of Narapatisithu.® Narapati’s tutor, Aggavathsa, was
a learned thera, one of the most noted who dwelt in the
monastery on the plateau to the north above Pagan. Agga-
varhsa whote a grammar of the Tipitaka called Saddaniti
(1154) which is still regarded as classic in Burma. Uttarajiva
when he crossed over to Ceylon on a visit to the Mahavihara
took with him a copy of this work which was ‘received with
enthusiastic admiration, and declared superior to any work
of the kind written by Sinhalese scholar: Capata, other-
wise known as Saddhammajotipala, the disciple of Uttara-
jiva, was also interested in grammar, besides the Vinaya
and the Abhidhamma. He is credited by the Gandhavarnsa,
the Sdsanavarisa and the Sasanavarhsadipa to have been the
author of the Suttaniddesa, (or Kaccdyanasuttaniddesa) which
was composed at Arimaddana (Pagan) at the request of his
pupil Dhammacari."' He was also the author of Sarmkhepa-
vannand,** a commentary on the Abhidhammattha Sarngha
Inscriptions of Pagan, Pinya and Ava. Ed. by Taw Sein Ko and
translated by Tun Nyein, Rangoon, 1800. _ a

49 A full list of authors and ‘their works is given in Pali
Literature of Burma, by Dr. Bode. What I am attempting hore is
only a bare catalogue with a view to giving an idea of tho
scholarly activities of the monks just to give @ complete account
of the religion during the period. This catalogue is gleaned mainly
from the Sasanavaméa, the Gandhavaméa and the Pitakatthamain,
My indebtedness to Dr. Bode in this connection is obvious.

80, Dr. Bode, p. 17; Gandho, pp. 67, 72; Fausbill, Oat, Ind.
"st Gandha, pp. 64, 74; Sdsana, p. 7A; SAsanadip, verses 12148;
Pitakatthamain, p. 66.

52 According to the Gandha, this work was the only one written
in Qeylon. The Pifakatthamain clesses this work under Abhi-

Google
THERAVADA BUDDHISM IN BURMA 56

of Anwruddha, the Simalaikéra or Simalankarattha,” a
commentary on a Ceylonese work on boundaries and sites
for religious ceremonies, the Vinayasamutthanadipani,* a
work on monastic discipline written at the request of his
preceptor, the Vinayagulatthadipani,** an exposition of the
abstruse passages of the Vinayapitaka, the Namacaradipani,®*
the Matikatthadipani, the Pafthénagananaya,"' all dealing
with Abhidhamma subjects, and the Gandhisdra®* or
Ganthisdra, a condensed collection of important texts.
Forchammer thinks, however, that the Suttaniddesa, the
Sarhkhepavannana and the Namacaradipani were not the
works of Capata, but were introduced by him from Ceylon.**
OF these, the Namacaradipani, according to him, was a book
on ethics, and not on Abhidhamma.*® According to the
Pitakatthamain, Capata was the author of another work, the
Visuddhimaggaganthi,** a commentary on the difficult
passages of Buddhaghoga’s great encyclopaedia.”

‘The introduction of the Sihala Sarngha by Capata inten-
sified the enthusiasm among monks for scholastic work, and
we find monk-scholars busying themselves in writing treaties:
mostly on grammar. Saddhammasiri, a monk of Pagan,
wrote a grammatical treatise called Saddatthabhedacinta,*®
a book based on the Pali aphorisms of Kaccayana, and
perhaps also on Sanskrit texts on grammar. According to
the Sasanavarhsa, he was the translator of the Brhaja, which
evidently is the Brhajjdtaka of Varahamihira, into Burmese,
probably one of the first works in the vernacular.‘ Vimala-

dhamma works, p. 50. Seo Oldenberg, Pali Mas, in the India
Office, J.P.T.S. 1882, p. 85; Fausbéll, Cat. Mand, Mss., J.P.T.8.
1896, p. 39.

63 Gandhe, p. 62; Sasanadip, v. 1218; Pitakatthamain,

Gandha, pp. 64, 74. 55 Pitakatthamain, p. 44.
Gandha, p. 74. 87 Ibid.

Gandha, p. 74.

Forchammer, Jardine Prize Essay, pp. 84, 35.

Ibid. 61 Pitakatthamain, p. 37.
For Capata’s Works see Dr. Bode, op. cit., pp. 17-19.
Gandia, pp. 62, 72; Forchammer, List, p.
Sasana, p. 75; Pifakatthamain, p. 68.

feesssse*

Google
56 NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

buddhi, (also called Maha-Vimalabuddhi) another thera of
Pagan, was the author of another important grammatical
work known as Nyasa, or Mukhamattadipani, a commen-
tary on the Kaccdyanayoga. He also wrote a fikd on the
Nyasa,** and to him is also ascribed the Abhidhammattha-

» a native of Burma and resident of Pagan,
wrote a treatise named Lokuppatti,“” an important book
which is not on grammar. But treatises on grammar closely
followed one upon another. Subhiiticandana, Nanasigara
and Uttama, all of Pagan, were the authors of Lingattha-
vivarana, Lingatthavivaranappakasaka and Lingatthavivarana-
fika."* Uttara also wrote a fik@ on Baldvatara, the grammar
of Vacissara of Ceylon, while the authorship of Lingattha-
vivaranavinicchaya, another work on grammar is unknown.**

Earlier, a scholium on Nyasa entitled Nydsappadipafika
was composed by a noble man whose name is not given,
but who was a grammarian of repute.”? A very interesting
but intensely human story is told about thie author in the
Sdsanavarisa"’ which seems to indicate that he was
a noble man of rank when he fell violently in love with
one of the princesses royal, Narapatisithu, the reigning king,
agreed to give his daughter in marriage to the noble man
provided he could produce a scholarly work. The noble
man then presumably entered the Order and took upon
himself the responsible task of writing the work referred
to above. On the completion of the work the king evidently
gave him the hand of his daughter, for he returned to the
layman's life and was conferred the title of rajjuggahamacca.

Dhammadassi was another important grammarian of Pagan.
He was a Samanera when he wrote his work on Vacca-
vdcaka or Vacavacaka,”* on which Saddhammanandi wrote

65 Gandha, pp. 63, 78. 66 Sasanadip, v. 1223.
67 Gandha, pp. 64, 67; Sdsana, p. 74; Pitakatthamain, p. 60.
68 Gandha, pp. 68, 67, 72, 73.

69 Ibid, pp. 65-75. 70 Sasanadip, v. 1240.
71 Sasana, p. 75; Forchammer, List, p. xxiii,
72 Sasana, p. 75. According to the Pitakatthamain, the

Vaccavdcaka was written by an author whose name was unknown,

Google
THERAVADA BUDDHISM IN BURMA 87

a fika.”” Thera Abhaya, also of Pagan, wrote his Maha-
fika,"* a commentary on the Saddatthabhedacinté of
Saddhammasiri, and the -Sambandhacintatika,"* a commen-
tary on the Sambandhacinta of Sarngharakkhita, a scholar of
Ceylon.

Scholastic work in the monasteries of Pagan continued
unabated even after Narapatisithu’s reign. We have seen
that Kyaswa himself was an author of repute, while his
daughter was also the authoress of a little work in Pali
cases called Vibhattyattha."* It is no wonder, therefore,
that important treatises should continue to be written. Sagara
or Gunasigara, as he is called in the Gandhavarnsa, wrote
the Mukhamattasara"’ as well as a tika on his work, at the
request of the Head of the Church (Sarngharaja) who was
also the preceptor of the king. Besides grammar, Abhi-
dhammatthasangaha was also an important subject of study.
The Sasanavarisa gives us a short story of the old monk
Disipamokkha who took so seriously to the study of this
subject that he mastered it thoroughly within a very short
time, The other theras were astonished at this, and the
earnestness of the old man was rewarded by the king who
appointed him as his dcariya.

It is strange that we have practically no information of
the state of monastic learning and scholarship in the Talaing
country during all this time. I have already pointed out
that there is no ground for assuming that with the taking
away of sacred texts and many learned monks from Thaton
by Anawrahta, Buddhism and Buddhist learning became a
thing of the past in the Talaing country. Indeed that could
not be. The reason, therefore, of our having no information

73 Cat, Mand. Mss. mentions threo tikds on the Vaccavicaka,
but Saddhammanandi is the only author mentioned, p. 50.

74 Gandha, pp. 63, 73; Forchammer, List, p. xxi; Report, p. 2
75 Cat. Mand. Mss. p. 60; Pifakatthamain, pp. 69, 71;
Forchammer, List, p. xxi.

76 Sdsana, p. 77.

7 Sasana, p. 76; Gandha, pp. 63, 73. Forchammer in his
List gives tho namo as Gunaséra, p. xxiii.

8

Google ,N
5B NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

about the state of the religion or religious scholarship in that
country after the memorable sack of Thaton for well-nigh
one century and a half must be sought elsewhere. And
thie is readily found in that fact that all our sources of infor-
formation regarding our subject of study hails from the
Ceylonese school or from some quarters having a great
learning towards that school, not even excluding the Kalyan?
inscriptions. The Sdsanavarhsa, the most important source
in this respect, is frankly of Sinhalese affiliation, and it is
but evident that it hardly takes any notice of any scholar or
any work, except in a few instances, that does not belong
to that school. Talaing country, the Ramafifiadesa of
the chronicles, however, owed allegiance all this time to
the older school alleged to have been founded by Sona and
Uttara to which Shin Arahan himself belonged. It is only
easy to imagine that this Sarngha which was known as Ari-
yathanta Sarngha had a history of its own even after Anaw-
rahta had robbed the Talaing capital of much of its religious
glory. It is equally possible to assume also that during all
this time the Talaing country had not been without its history
of monastic learning and scholarship. But all our sources,
unfortunately enough, ignore this history altogether. When,
therefore, the veil is lifted once again and we get into touch
with the Talaing country after about one hundred and fifty
years, it is long in Narapatisithu’s reign and at a time when
the Ceylonese school had established itself in the Talaing
country. Naturally, therefore, the first Buddhist scholar
whom we meet with as devoting himself in furthering the
religion in the Talaing country is Sariputta Dhammavilasa,
a resident of Ramajijjadesa, but ordained in the Sihala,
Srngha by thera Ananda. The one-sidedness of all our
main sources of information is nowhere so clearly brought
to prominence than in this instance. The Sasanavarisa and
the Kalyani inscriptions relate the story in a way as if
Dhammavilasa was the first scholar and divine of the Talaing
country after Shin Arahan, a fact palpably absurd in a
country where Buddhism had been a living religion for cen-

Google
THERAVADA BUDDHISM IN BURMA 59

turies and where a flourishing Sarngha was all the time in
existence. The modern historian must therefore lament that
no scholar or chronicle belonging to the Talaing school or
having at least sympathies with that school left for him any
account of the religion to enable him to give a complete
history of the activities, contributions and vicissitudes of the
religion in Burma.

Sariputta Dhammavilisa, of whom we have already
heard, is not known to have written any work on Vinaya or
Abhidhamma or even on grammar. His most interesting
and important work was on law; in fact, his Dhammathat or
Law Code was one of the earliest in Burma, and was the
source and model of practically all later Pali and Burmese
law texts written in Burma.”*

It is somewhat curious that the monkish scholars devoted
themselves so much to the study of grammar. Readers may
have noticed that the majority of the works of this period,
and also of later periods are on grammar, apparently an un-
creative subject of study for monks who are expected to be
more concerned with deeper matters and problems of life,
and as such, with psychology, ethics and metaphysics. It
is etrange that so late a scholar, holding so important a posi-
tion as that of the Sarhgharaja, as Pafifiasimf, the author
of the Sasanavarhsa, interests himself in grammar almost out
of all proportion. He cannot conceal his predilection to-
wards the subject in preference to others, more important; -
in fact, he takes delight in relating the accounts of those
scholars who are interested like himself in the subject. In
one place he is almost enthusiastic in recording how popular
was the study of grammar even among women of all ages,
and how even busy mothers of families of Pagan snatched
time to study grammar;’ in another place he relates with

78 Forchammer, Jardine Prize Essay; also his Notes on
Buddhist Tow. Dhammavilisa’s Dhammathat can no longer be
traced; the book existe only in quotations of extracts in a commen-
tary written in 1856, and in a Burmeso translation of 1768, Fesay,
p. 2.

79 Sasana, p. 78.

Google
ci NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

delight how witty women disputed with monks on Pali acci-
dence. This extraordinary interest in grammar may have
been due to the fact that for all who were interested in the
religion—and the majority of the polulation were—a know-
ledge of the sacred texts was almost the first requisite, and
knowledge of the texts presupposed a good knowledge of
Pali grammar. But perhaps more than this, it was due to
the peculiar orthodox attitude of the Ceylonese school—an
attitude which also explains their very strict adherence to the
triflest rule on the smallest decencies of life laid down in
the Vinaya. Dr. Mabel Bode has a very significant passage
in the introduction of her edition of the Sdsanaurhsa’® on
this attitude, explaining the interest of the Ceylonese school
in grammar:

“To the orthodox, scriptural warrant is everything,
in the settlement of religious difficulties. From the
word of the ancient texts, expanded in the Atthakatha,
and further explained by fikds and ofthayojanas there
is no appeal. So the actual ‘word’ becomes the rock
on which right believing and right living rest, and gene-
ration after generation of teachers devote themselves
passionately to the study of Pali grammar. The
‘science of words’ is held to be vital to the cause of
Truth, and the writing of grammatical treatises rises to
the height of a religious duty.”

80 Sasana, Introduction, p. 58.

Google
MISCELLANY

Talanal

By Dr. George Coedés

In his recent work Forgotten Kingdoms in Sumatra’
Dr. F.M. Schnitger mentions (p. 21) a legendary king of
Jambi (Sumatra) named Sutan Talanei whose son, having
been thrown into the sea in a chest and then received on
the shores of Siam by the king of this country, led an
expedition against his father afterwards and killed him.

In considering this work, Sir Richard Winstedt has
recalled the fact that the name of Tun Telanai appears
twice in the Malay Annals: first, as that of a descendant
of Demang Lebar Daun, who became king of Bentam’;
second, as that of an envoy of the Sultan of Malacca to
Siam.*

It will be observed that Talanei-Telanai is brought into
relation with Siam as well in the tradition recorded by Dr.
Schnitger as in the Malay Annals.

It is probably the same name which appears with the
title of mahdsendpati in the inscription of Buddha at Grahi
dated 1183 A.D.* When publishing this inscription, |
read this name as Galdnai, but in the face of the great
resemblance between the characters ¢ and g, I do not
hesitate to correct my reading and to read Talanai.

What the inscription says of this personage who was
the governor of Grahi, is altogether insufficient for permit-

EJ. Brill, Leiden, 1999.

JRAS., 1989, pp. 647-648,

Dr. John Leyden, Malay Annals, p, 45 (written Talani).
Ibid, p. 145 ff.

Published by myself in BEFEO, XVIII, 6, p. 34 and Recueil
deg inscriptions du Siam, IL, p. 45. Tho oxact reading of the date
is Saka 1105 (Bijdragen, deel 83, 1927, pp. 468-469),

anew

Google
62 GEORGE oaks

ting the attempt at’ his identification with Talanei
of the Malay annals and of the Sumatran legend. The
same name could have been borne by several persons
of different epochs. But the interest of the comparison
lies in the fact that the mahdsendpati, who gave the
order for construction of a bronze statue of Buddha at
Grahi, bears a Malay name and that the name in the
Sumatran legend is that of a king of Jambi having had
some strifes with Siam. Now, G. Ferrand has shown that
the king mentioned in the Buddha inscription of Gr:
viz., Trailokyarajamaulibhiganavarmadeva, bea

is
title

identical with thatof the kings of Malaya (Jambi And
Grahi which forms the extreme northern limit of the
possessions of San-fo-tsi according to Chav-ju-kua (1225

A.D.), corresponds to the site of Jaiya which is actually
found in Siamese territory.*

6 JA., XIo série, Vol. 20, 1922, p. 182, n. 1. Dr. R. C. Majumdar,
Suvarnadvipa, I, p. 196 attributes this comparison to me for ro-
jecting it. But it seems to me to be worthy of being upheld.

*

(Translated from the original French article by
U.N, Ghoshal).

Google iN
NOTICES OF BOOKS

Ingalik Material Culture:—by Cornelius Osgood, Yale
University Publications in Anthropology, Number 22, New
Haven, Published for the Department of Anthropology, Yale
University by the Yale University Press 1940—Royal Octavo
Pages 1-500, Plates 11, Text figures 133.

Ingalik Material Culture presents the technological attain-
ments of a primitive American Indian tribe living in Western
Alaska. Ingalik, or “having louses’ eggs’’ is the name
given by the Eskimos of the lower Yukon River to their
Athapaskan-speaking Indian neighbours who occupy the
course of the Yukon River between Anvik and Holy Cross,
the lower Innoko River, south of Shageluk Slough, and the
area southeast to the Kuskokwim River. The Ingalik are
still in the food-gathering stage and pursue hunting and
fishing as the most important means of livelihood. ‘‘The
animal life of the Ingalik country is typical of the interior of
Alaska”, Bears, moose and caribou occur in large numbers
in addition to the fur-bearing animals of smaller size. These
fur-bearing animals exposed the Ingalik to contact with
modern civilization. .

The Ingalik rivers abound in different kinds of fish owing
to their comparative proximity to the sea. Birds this
area are mostly migratory. On this background the material
culture of the Ingalik has developed. Up to the end of
the 18th century the Ingalik lived a life of comparative
isolation, but want of furs towards the west of their country
drove the Russian fur-traders to this region about the begin-
ning of the nineteenth century and they gradually established
five trading stations at different parts of this area. This
brought the natives into intimate contact with civilized man.
During the last few years of the nineteenth century this
contact was further accelarated by the rush for gold and
intensive proselytising efforts of Christian Missions. Asa

Google

Cy NOTICES OF BOOKS

result the white population doubled. In the twentieth
century the airplane has put an end to the long voyages and
consequent isolation of the Ingalik region.

The book is divided into three parts dealing with the
purpose of the work, the data and its an: In addition
to these there are five appendices, a bibliography and an
index of manufactures. The second part of the book which
deals with the data is the most important one. Here the
author describes the different material objects manufactured
and utilised by the Ingalik to satisfy their physical, in-
tellectual and cultural necessities. The author has ap-
proached the life of this tribe from an intensely objective
standpoint. In describing the three hundred and thirty-nine
articles of Ingalik material culture arranged under fifteen
heads the author does not bind himself to the objects alone,
but also gives the various processes or culture-habits con-
nected with them. Information on each item is systemati-
cally arranged and noted under three major heads, that is,
name, manufacture and use. Under name, we get the native
term as well as its English word for word equivalent.
Sometimes the essential relation between the name of the
object and its function is also pointed out at this place.
Manufacture is noted under six sub-headings wherein (1) the
material used, (2) the method of construction, (3) variations
in size, material and construction, (4) the place where the
object is constructed, (5) the time of day as well as the
season or weather when the thing is constructed and (6) the
sex of the maker and his age, where necessary, are clearly
put down under their respective heads. Coming to the
use of the article the author marshals his information under
eight headings, namely, (1) utility or function of the object,
(2) method of use, (3) variations in use, (4) the place where
it is used, (5) the time of day, season or weather when it is
used, (6) the sex of the user, (7) length of life of the article
and (8) the sex of the owner of the article. Sometimes,
under this heading, the method of inheritance is also
indicated,

Google -
NOTICES OF BOOKS 65

This method of presentation of the data seems to be new
in ethnographic literature and has the advantage of laying
before the scholar the exact information divested of the
author’s theoretical bias which often colours the facts.
Throughout the book the author has kept himself clear of
theorizing though he had enough scope and material for the
same.

The author’s estimation of Ingalik culture is given in the
third part of his book where he analyses the information
collected on the 339 objects. Certain general deductions are
made therefrom. Thus according to him, Ingalik manufac-
tures have adrab appearance owing to absence of decora-
tion. They are mostly made up of curved lines with
patterns of parallel lines here and there. Both these aspects
of form are bound up with functional or utilitarian ideas and
not with any conscious motivation. He further finds that
spruce is the predominant material used in Ingalik manu-
factures and it occurs in about half of the items in one form
or other. Next to it comes the caribou. Another deduction
is that “more things are made outside in the open than any-
where else. This is due to two facts. First, a large num-
ber of manufactures of necessity is made outside ......
and second, in summer men choose to do almost all their
construction work outside and occasionally they work out-
side even in winter ......"". Mr. Osgood’s analysis brings
out another fact very clearly and that is the division of
labour between the sexes. Most of the things are made by
one or other of the two sexes and a comparatively few by
both the sexes. Thus the woman specialises in the manu-
facture of twisted lines, tanned skins, nets, grass baskets and
mats, birch bark baskets, skin containers, pottery, dry fish
and clothing while the man monopolises the construction of
primary tools, weapons, hunting and fishing implements,
wood-dishes and bowls and ceremonial parapharnalia. But
this sharp distinction in the sex of the manufacturer is not
correlated with the use of the articles manufactured. These
Indians are extremely ‘“‘utilitarian in their attitude towards

9

Google ' seinen
68 NOTICES OF BOOKS

the material world”. They make very few things which do
not serve some practical purpose. In fact, out of the long
list given by the author there are less than ten items which
might be classed as ornaments for ordinary personal adorn-
ment.

The book will be useful to the scholars as a source book
of the material traits of an Athapascan Indian tribe, but it
has one defect which is inherent in the arrangement of the
material. It does not give a continuous account but merely
glimpses of the different segments of tribal life. The essen-
tial unity which pervades the life of a people and to which
the different traits are linked up has escaped the attention
of the author. Inspite of this we welcome is
attempt at delineating the material culture of a primitive
tribe from a new angle and congratulate the author and the
Department of Anthropology, Yale University for this excel-
lent production. Indian anthropologists who go from village
to village in search of ethnographic materials to be gleaned
from different informants and would build theories upon
their averages would do well to imitate Mr. Osgood who has
Practically collected the whole data from a single native in-
formant, Billy Williams, a man of varied experience.

T. C. Das

Prajnaparamitiratnagunasameayaga @, Sanskrit and
Tibetan text. Edited by E. Obermiller, Moscow 1937,
125 pp.

As regards Buddhist studies from Tibeto-Sanskrit sources
the late Professor E. Obermiller occupied a very prominent
Position among scholars of the present generation. His
learned contributions are well known. But unfortunately
the cruel hand of death has snatched him away very pre-
maturely, thus giving a serious blow to the cause of

Google
NOTICES OF BOOKS 07

Buddhistic scholarship. The book under notice was edited
by him, but it is to be highly regretted that he did not
live to see it in its present form.

The book, which is in verse, is an epitome, chapter by
chapter, of the Prajfiaparamita doctrine as expounded in
the Agtasahasrika Prajfiaparamita. There are three com-
mentaries on this work, one of them being by Haribhadra
who commented also on the Abhisamaydlankara, and one
by his disciple Buddhasrijfiana. As time went on, the
readings of the book underwent much change, as says
Haribhadra himself in the second verse added to the end
of the text, and they were corrected by him.

The edition is based only on a single xylograph found
by Prof. Tubiansky in a monastery in Mongolia. It con-
tains both the skrit text in the Lafica character with
Tibetan transliteration and translation. From the descrip-
tion of the xylograph given by the editor, it appears that
the reviewer, too, has at his disposal a copy of the work
exactly of the same edition. It was presented with two
other books to him from China by one of his friends, a
Mongolian Buddhist monk.

As could be reasonably expected from an editor of the
celebrity of Prof. Obermiller, the edition is good, but it
could be done better by removing some defects that have
crept into it. For instance, on page 9, éloka 6°, it is not
labhonti but na bhonti as both my copy of the xylograph
and the Tibetan translation (yod. pa. min) show. On p. 9,
$loka 7* atha should have been corrected to yatha, as is
evident from the Tibetan reading ji. Itar.

Similarly on p. 16, éloka 24° it must be janeti as in my
copy and supported by the Tibetan reading bskyed, and not
jane ’ti’ as printed. In the same line we have mahaft both
in Lafic& and the Tibetan translation.

On p. 22, éloka 13°, there is bhani in the xylograph and
not bhdni as corrected. In the same éloka, b, we have
there aha and not aham though evidently the latter (Tib. a)
ismeant. As the language and the metre in such works

Google
68 NOTICES OF BOOKS

are very irregular, it is difficult to decide as to how far one
is justified in amending such readings. Many defective
readings are corrected in the present edition in the foot-
notes, but in many cases the actual readings are not shown
though their corrected forms are given in the text.

There are also some printing mistakes. For instance,
on p. 98 in éloka |” one is to read afijali (Tib. thal-mo) for
aficali, and on p. 99, éloka 4° abhijujyati (Tib. mnon. par.
brston. byed) for abhiyucyati-

The readings of the last éloka (p. 124) are not certain.
Smeyam in d in this verse is apparently a misprint for
seyam (Tib. hdi. ni). What is kali in bahudrgtisamkulakati
in a and what does kipam mean here in c ? There is
nothing like it in the Tibetan text.

There are some other minor defects in the present
edition.

Vidhushekhara Bhattacharya

Founders of Vijayanagara. By S. Srikantaya. Pub-
lished by the Mythic Society, Bangalore, 1938. Pp. 174

This work is based on a course of five lectures delivered
by the author under the auspices of the Annamalai University
so far back as 1930. But as the author tells us in his Prefa-
tory Note, ithas been improved by the incorporation of
up-to-date additional materials.

Since Sewell wrote his pioneer work, The History of a
Forgotten Empire (Vijayanagara) some forty years ago,
materials of diverse kinds have steadily accumulated for the
reconstruction of the brilliant career of the great mediaeval
Hindu empire. To confine ourselves only to the intricate
problems of its origin, a host of scholars have been working
in recent times with the aid of the added materials to solve
the riddle. Among these may be specially mentioned Dr.
S. Krishnaswami Aiyangar, Father Heras and Dr. Venkata
Ramanayya. The work before us is a notable addition to
the growing literature on the subject. It may at once be

Google
NOTICES OF BOOKS 6

admitted that the author has spared no pains to deal exhaus-
tively with all the poi ing out of his topic. He often
quotes extensively the views of other scholars not only when
he attempts to criticise them, but when he simply follows
their authority. Among his important conclusions may be
mentioned the view that Vijayanagara just before its emer-
gence as the capital of the powerful Hindu empire was
familiarly known as Hosapattana and was a residential
capital of the Hoyasala Ballala III (p. 37), and that Bailala
III greatly assisted in the foundation of the Vijayanagara
empire (p. 63). In connection with the last point the
author indulges in a vigorous polemic against Dr. Venkata
Ramanayya who holds that Harihara and Bukka were
unfriendly towards Ballala III. We also note that the author
supports (p. 75) the theory of Karnatak origin of the house
of Saiigama as against the Telugu theory advocated by
Wilks in former times and by Sewell and Smith in later times.
He even goes so far as to follow (p. 81) Dr. S. K. Aiyangar
in supposing that Harihara and Bukka were feudatories of
Ballala II]. He vigorously combats the view of Dr. Heras
who rejected the theory of Vidyaranya Madhava’s connec-
tion with the foundation of Vijayanagara. The author's
conclusion may be stated in his own words as follows
(p. 159-160): “The origin and establishment of the Vijaya-
nagara empire was not born of any attachment to any
particular form of Hinduism. It was a comprehensive
movement taking into its fold all forms of the Hindu faith,
including the prevalent forms of Jainism and other religious
faiths of a non-descript character In this great work a
number of prominent men of all religions played a part.””

We have noticed a number of ships of which the
most serious is Alberuni (p. 27) for Zia-ud- Barni.
The book has a good index. An up-to-date bibliography,

a few genealogical tables and a map would have greatly
enhanced its value.

U.N.G,

Google
70 NOTICES OF BOOKS

The psychological attitude of early Buddhist philo-
sophy and its systematic representation according to
Abhidhamma tradition. By Anagarika B. Govinda. Patna
University Readership Lectures, 1936-37. (With seven
Appendices and three Indices).

Anagarika B. Govinda introduces his lectures on the
psychological attitude of Buddhism with a few general
observations on the evolution of religion and the course
it took in Ancient India. He says that religion like a
tree grows naturally under certain conditions and cir-
cumstances and is not the creation of human skill, and he
likens the religious teachers to the artists who use their
brains and hands to reproduce the tree on the canvas. He
then divides the whole history of religion into three periods,
first, that of magic (emotional stage), second, that of the
gods (mental stage) and third, that of man (spiritual
stage). The first stage in Ancient India was marked by
the period of hymns and mantras, of ritual and sacrifice,
the second by that of contemplation of the divine, of metta
and of metaphysical speculation, the third by that of analy-
tic and synthetic meditation and of philosophical systems.

In the second lecture, the author defines the scope of
Buddhist psychology. He rightly says that itis not a pure
science having scientific interest alone; it is a science of
practical application for the elevation of mind or conscious-
ness. It therefore analyses the experiences of the average
man as also those of men who have reached the highest
plane of thought. in meditation. He refuses to treat the
Abhidhamma works as partaking of a scholastic nature,
and he would rather find in them the formulation of the
doctrine in a psychological fashion. He might accept the
connotation of Buddhism as a metaphysical one, but
according to him the truth is that Buddha gave the method
(the path) but not the metaphysical truth, the ‘ultimate.
Mr. Govinda’s opinion was held by a large number of
European scholars before the works of Nagarjuna and
Vasubandhu were known. Itis time that there should be

Google
NOTICES OF BOOKS n

orientation in the older view. His exposition of the three
degrees of knowledge may be his own, but it is certainly
not that of the ancient expositors, so is his exposition of
the Bodhicitta which he translates as the Highest type of
consciousness (per contra see Bodhicaryavatara, Chap. 1).

The third lecture is devoted to the exposition of the four
truths, the theory of dependent origination and the eight-
fold path. We appreciate the author's statement that of
the four truths, the fact of suffering is only half the truth,
while the other half is the fact of happiness, but we do not
follow him when he compares Descartes’ cogito ergo eum
with Buddha’s sabbe sankhara dukkha. Buddha, we are told,
was ‘‘a genuine freethinker” and “‘he conceded to everybody
the right to think independently”. But can he be given
that credit with his teaching of dukkha, anattd, aniccd or
paficakkhandhé and can it be reasonably stated that all
sentient beings endure suffering? Buddha is rational in
comparison with the irrational doctrines of pre-Buddhistic
Brahmanism, but his teaching is not rational in the proper
sense. Apart from our disagreement with some of the
general remarks of the author like “centripetal and centri-
fugal tendencies" (p. 71), we must say that his exposition
of the fundamental teachings of Buddhism is based on ori-
ginal texts and it follows the traditional lines which in our
opinion should be adhered to as far as possible. His at-
tempts at generalisations of Buddhist technical expressions
and formula are indeed interesting and deserve a close
study, 80 also are his charts and diagrams.

The fourth, fifth and sixth lectures are devoted to
the exposition of the Buddhist conception and function of
citta and cetasika, which the author translates as
“principles and functions of consciousness” and as
“factors of consciousness”. In these lectures he has gone
deep into the analysis adumbrated in the Abhidhamma
works, and has tried to present the orthodox exposition as
far as possible in modern philosophical language. We can-
not but appreciate his efforts to explain the abstruse subjects

Google
2 NOTICES OF BOOKS

of Abhidhamma by means of charts and diagrams. He has
thus sought to explain the three or four planes of thought
or consciousness, the states of consciousness in jhanas and
samadhis, the cittas of those who belong to one of the
stages of sanctification, pafisandhicitta which undergoes
rebirth and interrupts the bhavanga-sota and 80 forth. In
short the author has not left untouched any branch of
Abhidhamma psychology-

The value of these lectures has been further enhanced
by the appendices. The author taken recourse to a
number of diagrams to clear up his ideas. But the dia-
grams, it may be thought, are not always comprehensible.
On the whole it is an excellent work. It does not belong
to the category of works written by scholars who have
read Pali texts through translations and summaries, or
find in Pali texts a complete replica of the Vedanta
literature.

Nalinaksha Dutt

Google
Reception to Dr, H. G. and
Mrs. Quaritch- Wales

The members of the Greater India Society had the plea-
sure of meeting Dr. H.G. and Mrs. Quaritch-Wales, the well-
known Malay explorers, ata tea-party on the occasion of
their visit to Calcutta in October, 1940. The pleasant
function took place under the hospitable roof of the Royal
Asiatic Society of Bengal on the 4th October, 1940, imme-
tely after the guests had been shown round the Society's
Library and Collections by its energetic Assistant Secretary,
Mr. J. C. De. The function wi ttended by a number
of members and well-wishers of the Society including
Mr. O. C. Gangoly, Dr. Nihar-ranjan Ray, Mr. S. K.
Saraswati, Mr. J.C. De and Mr. Baijnath Puri. The Presi-
dent who unable to attend owing to ill-health sent a
message which was read out by Prof. U, N. Ghoshal,
the Hony. Secretary. It ran as follows

University College of Science & Technology
92, Upper Circular Road, Calcutta
4th October, 1940

“My dear Ghoshal,

1 am now an octogenarian and owing to infirmi-
ties of my health, I regret, | am unable to attend your
function this afternoon in honour of Dr. and Mrs.
Wales, the veteran Malay explorers. They have de-
served well of us because of their continued and
successive explorations of some sites associated with
early Indian colonization of the Far East. They are
doing for us our truly national work, as they are re-
storing to us some of the long forgotten vestiges of
our great and ancient cultural heritage. May they

10

Google
"4 SHORT NOTICES

live long to continue their noble and disinterested
labours in our cause. I wish your function every
success.

Yours sincerely,
(Sd.) P.C. Ray,
President, Greater India Society.

After the message was read, the Hony. Secretary made a
short speech in course of which after referring to the simi-
larity of aims of the Greater India Society and the Greater
India Research Committee and to the cultural mission of Dr.
Rabindranath Tagore to Indo-China and Indonesia, he
complimented the explorers on the extent and success of
their arduous journeys. Proceeding to thank them for the
genuine appreciation of Indian culture animating all their
labours, the speaker welcomed the project of association of
Indians with European scholars in future explorations to
Malay. Reference was made in this connection to the
arduous Indian explorers of ancient times like Gunavarman
and Kumiarajiva and of modern times like Sarat Chandra
Das and N. G. Majumdar. Dr. Wales made a felicitous
reply expressing his appreciation of the Greater India
Society’s work ; he declared that in future the archaeological
explorations in Malay should be undertaken by Europeans
in association with Indians and he concluded by i
the audience of his whole-hearted co-operation in this great

task.

Short Notice

We have been requested to make the following
announcement :—

“THE ANCIENT INDIAN CIVILIZATION SERIES

“(When the Adyar Library considered the scheme of publishing the
Series, it was not anticipated that the international situation would grow
20 serious as it is at present. Considering the present position, it is
better that such a big scheme be not undertaken at this moment. The
scheme has not been dropped. Since the scheme is expected to have
world-wide appeal, it is necessary to enlist the sympathy and co-opera-
tion of persons in all the countries of the world, Under conditions now

Google

NOTES 75

prevailing in the world, it is not possible. As soon as happier
conditions are restored, the acheme will be taken up. It is only a
general scheme that has been prepared. The details have yet to be
considered and worked out. It may be necessary even to constitute #
new Editorial Board,

ADYAR LIBRARY G. SRINIVASA MURTHI,
Ist October, 1940 Director":

Lecture on the Living Culture of
Java and Bali

On Monday the 10th March, 1941, Dr. F. Vreede, Hony.
Director of Netherlands Centre of Studies of the University
of Paris, delivered a lecture on “The Living Culture of
Java and Bali’, in the rooms of the Royal Asiatic Society
of Bengal. There was a small but appreciative audience
including the President of the Council of the Society, Sir
John Lort-Williams, who took the chair. We reproduce
below the synopsis of this interesting lecture in the author's
own words.

“The unity noticed between the Hindu Civilization
of the Balinese, and the Islamic Civilization of the
Javanese, which strikes even tourists in the daily
life of these two highly artistic, religious and equally
cultured peoples, is mainly due to a common ances-
tral, Indonesian tradition, greatly influenced however
by ancient Hindu colonisation. This common back-
ground manifests itself to the present day in their
shadow-play, theatrical dances and a vast ensemble
of social habits and customs of a retualistic magic or.
animistic nature. The characteristic feature of both
the Balinese and the Javanese civilizations is
nevertheless their spiritual and realistic view of life,
which might prove one day a valuable contibution
to a new world-culture.””

Google
OBITUARY NOTICE
Louis de la Vallée-Poussin
(1869-1938)

By the lamented death of Professor Louis de Ia Vallée-
Poussin, the world of Oriental, especially Buddhist, scholar-
ship has suffered a loss which it would be difficult to make
good for many years. His mastery of Sanskrit combined
with his equipment in Chinese and Tibetan and his grasp
of philosophical principles lent a unique value to his
numerous editions of Sanskrit Buddhist texts and interpreta-
tion of the same.

Louis de la Vallée-Poussin was born at Liege on the Ist
January 1869 and he received his early education in his
native city. He gained in a iant fashion the Doctorate
Degree of the Liege University at the early age of nineteen.
The study of Sir Charles Lyall’s Asiatic Studies decided the
future vocation of the young scholar. He was initiated into
the rudiments of Sanskrit, Zend and Pali by Charles de
Harlez and Philippe Colinat at Louvain. He completed
his studies in Paris where he was a ple of Victor Henri
and Sylvain Lévi and at Leyden where Hendric Kern taught
him the language of the Gai When afterwards his
interest was centred on Buddhism, he added to his know-
ledge of Indian languages that of Tibetan and Chinese.

Appointed Professor at the University at Ghent in 1893,

he continued to occupy that chair till 1929 when he retired
to carry on his researches quietly at home. His professor-

ial duties which consisted in teaching Comparative
Grammar of Greek and Latin left him sufficient leisure to
pursue his favourite studies fully.

The literary activity of Poussin was concentrated almost
wholly on Northern or Sanskrit Buddhism. He published
diverse fragments of the Sanskrit canon discovered at

Google
OBITUARY NOTICE ”

Turkestan by Sir Aurel Stein. But his name will ever be
remembered for his monumental translations (with copious
notes) of Hiuen Tsang’s Chinese versions of the two works
Abhidharmakosavyakhya and Vijfiaptimatratasiddhi. These
works reveal all his sterling qualities, sound philosophical
knowledge, scholarly erudition and a genius for transposing
‘one system of thought into another completely different
from the same.

He was, again, a historian of religion and Buddhist
philosophy. His masterly work in this direction is his Le
Dogma et la Philosophie du Bouddhisme (Paris 1930). We
owe to him besides a History of India in three volumes
contributed to the Histoire du Mond directed by Messrs.
Cavaignac & Co.

For several years he contributed a chronicle of Buddhist
studies in Le Museon. In 1899 he assumed the editorship
of thie Journal which he continued till 1914. A refugee in
England during the last Great War, he published at
Cambridge in 1915-1916 Vol. XXXII of this Journal.

The prestige which he enjoyed in the Buddhist world
of India and the Far East was unparalleled. An unceasing
band of Indian, Japanese and other students who have
since won high fame by their contributions to Buddhist
scholarship flocked to him for advanced study and re-
search. A fitting recognition was granted to Poussin’
by the Japanese Government which presented him in 1935
with a commemorative medal on the occasion of the two
thousand five-hundredth birth anniversary of the Buddha,
a distinction which was accorded only to eight savants of
the entire world.*

U.N. G.

* Based chiefly on the obituary notice by M. E. Lamotte in Le
Museon, Tome LI, 1938, pp. 189-190,

Google
Select Contents of Oriental Journals

Tijdschrift voor Indische Taal-,-Land- en Volkenkunde,
1940, dl. LXXX, afl. 3

Koning Téguh op cen oorkonde by W. F. Stutterheim—
Sti Dharmavaméa Téguh Anantavikramottuigadeva who
is mentioned in the Old-Javanese recensions of the Maha-
bharata and is identified by Prof. Kern with Pirvayava-
dhipa and Dharmavaméa of Erlangga’s Calcutta-Stone
inscription is the subject of this paper. Prof. Kern deemed
this Dharmavaméa to be the father-in-law of Erlangga.
Berg not only doubts this equation, but goes so far as to
suggest that Dharmavamsa Téguh Anantavikramottuiiga.
deva is no other than Erlangga himself. Stutterheim tri
to support this view by making use of two inscriptions, viz.,
D172 and D33, which are joined together after a separation
of 60 years. According to this view the inscription con-
tains a statement, according to which Dharmavaméa Téguh
Anantavikramottuigadeva turns out to be the great grand-
father of Jayavarga (1104 A.D). The joint testimony
of this inscription and of the Old-Javanese version of
Erlangga’s Calcutta-Stone inscription seems to indicate,
according to Stutterheim, that Téguh and Erlangga are
one and the same person. Stutterheim thinks that Téguh
is the posthumous name of that illustrious monarch. The
transcription of D33 and D172 is given at the end of the
article,

Tijdschrift, Ibid., afl. 4.

Geschiedenis van het Indische Archiefwezen van 1816-
1854 by F. R. J. Verhoeven—Traces the history of Indi
records in Netherlands India for the years 1816 to 1854,
which latter year the Minister Pahud permitted the publi-
cation of those records whose publication would not pre-
judice the position of the government,

Google
SELECT OONTENTS OF ORIENTAL JOURNALS 70°

Djawa, May, 1940—De heerschers van Java | by
Koesoema Octaya—Gives a list of Javanese kings with ins-
criptional and other references.

De stichter der Prambanan-temples by W. F. Stutterheim
—The epigraphic data of the Prambanan-complex present
peculiarities of both central and East Java and are to be
placed in the 9th and 10th centuries. The style of archi-
tecture also tells us the same story. Stutterheim supposes
that Balitung who was the first king over both Central and
East Java commenced the temple-complex at Prambanan
and his work was carried on by his successor Dakga. The
image of Siva in the main-temple is nothing but the deified
figure of Balitung; his immediate entourage are also re-
presented in the accessory temples near by.

De wederopbouw van den Siva-tempel te Prambanan
by Ir. V. R. Van Romondt—Gives an account of the re-
construction of the Siva-temple of Prambanan, which was
completed after 25 years’ patient labour. The work is a
tribute to the foresight, patience and scientific exactitude of
Dutch scholarship.

Djawa, July-Sept., 1940—Een toornige Buddhistische
heiland by Ir. J. L. Moens—Discusses some images of Vajra-
yana Buddhism, one of which is identified with Aci
Mahakrodharaja (8th-9th century).

H. B. Sarkar

Journal of the Siam Society, Vol. XXXI, Part Il,
Dec. 1939.

His Highness Prince Dhani Niv:
wanawadi Sri Ayudhya.

Henri Marchal—Khmer Art and the work of the Ecole
Frangaise d'Extréme Orient.

Journal of the University of Bombay, Vol. IX, Part
IV., Jan. 1941,

F. Vreede—Hindu Tradition and Islamic Culture in
Javanese Civilization.

The City of Tha-

Google
The Greater India Society acknowledges with thanks the
receipt of the following books and periodicals,

Books, Pamphlets etc.

Coronation of His Majesty Prajadhipok, King of Siam,
B. E. 2468.

Inscripties van Nederlandsch-Indid, Afl. 1, Batavia, 1940.

Mann, G., Boelisch-Nederlandeche Woordenlijat met Neder-
landech-Boelisch Register, Bandoeng, 1940.

Mukhopadhyaya, Sujitkumar, Trisvabhavanirdeéa of Vasu-
bandhu, Visvabharati, 1939.

Patil, D. R., Tables comparing Gupta Inscriptions and
Puranic Tradition, Poona, 1941.

Sadananda, Svami, Sumatra, (in Bengali), Calcutta, 1940.

Wales, H. G. Quaritch, Archeological Researches on
Ancient Indian Colonization in Malaya, Singapore, 1940.

Journals, Periodicals etc.

Adyar Library Bulletin, Vol. 1V, Parts 3 and 4, Madras, 1940«

Annals of the Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute, Vol.
XXI, Parte Il, Poona, 1940.

Annals of the Sri Venkatesvara Oriental Institute, Vol. I,
Parts 2 and 3, Tirupati, 1940

Annual Report of the Adyar Library, 1938-1939, Madtes,

Annual Report (1939-40) of the Bhandarkar Oriental
Research Institute, Poona, 1941.

Annual Report (1939-40) of the United Provinces Provincial
Museum, Lucknow, 1941.

Bulletin of the Deccan College Research Institute, Vol. Il,
Nos. 1-2., Poona, 1940.

Catalogus der Bibliotheek, F-G: Geschiedenis, Kon. Batavia-
asch Genootschaap van Kunsten en Wetenschappen,
Bandoeng, 1940.

Ceylon Journal of Science, Vol. III, Part I, Colombo, 1940.

Google
BOOKS AND PERIODIOAL 8 al

Djawa, Jaarg. 21, 1-2, Jogjakarta, 1940-41.

Indian Culture, Vol. VII, No. 2, Calcutta, 1940.

Indian Historical Quarterly, Vol. XVI, Nos. 3 & 4, Calcutta,
1940

Journal of the Annamalai University, Vol. X, No. 2, Anna-
malainagar, 1940.

Journal of the Assam Research Society, Vol. VIII, No. I,
Gauhati, 1941.

Journal of Indian History, Vol. XIX, Part 3, Madras, 1940.

Journal of the United Provinces Historical Society, Vol.
XIIL, Part I, Lucknow, 1940.

Journal of the Univ. of Bombay, Vol. IX, Part 4,
Bombay, 1941.

Man in India, Vol. XX, No. 4, Ranchi, 1940.

Nagari Pracharini Patrika, Vol. 45. No. 2, Benares, 1941.

New Indian Antiquary, Vol. II, No. 10, Bombay, 1940.

Rapporten 1938, Oudheidkundige Dienst in Nederlandsch-
Indié, Batavia, 1940.

Tijdschrift voor Indische Taal-, Land- en Volkenkunde, deel
LXXX, Af. 4; Ibid, deel LXXXI, Af. 1, Batavia, 1940-41.

“Printed and Published by §}. J. C. Sarkhel, Manager, Calcutta Oriental
Prese Ltd., 9, Panchanan Ghoth Lane, Galeutta.

Google
Driginal from

UNIVERSITY O}

CHIGAN
THE JOURNAL

OF THE

GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

Vow VIE Jury, 1941 No.2

The Shadow Theatre in Greater India
and In Greece

By J. Przytuski, PH.D.

The history of the shadow theatre is not well-known
because it has remained a popular art, apart from literature,
up to a comparatively recent period. It is admitted that the
most ancient records, the interpretation of which is doubtful
enough, but which give apparently convergent indications,
are all of Indian origin. We believe that a famous passage
in Plato, the cave allegory, should be added to these notes.

In a clever article published in 1927, the Rev. A. Dies
suggested‘ that, when plato constructed his allegory of the
cave, he “‘made use of a show, familiar to him and quite
similiar to our Punch and Judy show”. The learned author
argues from the fact that Plato compares the wall which
stands outside the cave and partly blocks the entrance, “to
the partitions placed by puppet-operators between the spec-
tators and themselves”. And from a text of the Laws
(1.644d-645c) we know that, according to Plato, the puppets
are dolls, set in motion this way and that by means of
strings.

1 Bulletin de UVAssociation Guillaume Budé, Jan. 1927, p. 1

Google
a J. PRZYLUSKI

After reading the above article M.L. Roussel who had held?
the modern shadow theatre in Athens to be the “immediate
and direct heir of the Turkish Karagheuz”” wondered whether
the model transposed by Plato might not have been the real
ancestor of the Athenian Karaghuez. In answer to his query
M. A, Dies wrote, in a second article,’ that “the shadow
theatre may have existed in Plato's time......but the model
that he imitates directly and that he reverses, or should reverse
for his demonstration, is a Punch and Judy show essentially
similar to ours......The ordinary publi see the dolls
directly. Then Plato tums the whole stage round, and it
plays in the other way. The puppets are still set in motion
from beneath, behind the curtain, and move on the top of
it. But the public turn their backs to them and look at a
screen, where their shadows may be seen......Plato has not
only imitated he has constructed...

In short, M. A. Dies insists that a Punch and Judy show,
exactly the same as ours, was the model for Plato's cave.
Plato does not copy, he builds a shadow theatre “with
the help of two elements, furnished separately: the puppet-
show, and besides a shadow acting of some kind or

This conclusion does not seem quite so evident. We
must pay the greatest attention to a possible circumstance
that M. Dies mentions only to reject it. “If one wanted
absolutely to believe,” he says,' “that Plato reproduces a
shadow theatre existing in his days......one must then suppose
that Athens has known in the IV century a Karagheuz
arranged quite differently from the present Karagheuz. In this
theatre, an aparatus placed behind the spectators’ backs, and
comprising first the luminous source, then the puppets borne
up by props, would have projected shadows upon a screen
hanging in front of the public.” Now, this arrangement is

2 Karagheue ow un Thédtre dombres a Athénes, Athens,
2 tomes, 1921.

3 Bulletin de VAssociation Guillaume Budé, April 1937,
pp. 45-46. =

4 Ibid. p. 46. 5 Ibid. p. 46.

Google
SHADOW THEATRE IN GREATER INDIA 85

not only that of the modem cinema, but it is also probably
that of the early shadow theatre. Better still, the model
described by Plato is in some ways nearer to the most
ancient shadow theatre than anything that can be seen
nowadays.

The researches of Dutch ethnologists® tend to prove that,
in the ancient form of the Javanese Wayang the men could
see the puppets, whilst the women could only see their
shadows projected upon a screen. It is because the wo-
men were absolutely forbidden the sight of the sacred dolls
that the former were placed on the side of the screen where
they could only see the shadows.’ When Plato imagines
that the spectators’ legs and neck are tied with chai
that they may not turn round, those prisoners’ condition is
not without some similitude with that of the women in the
early Javanese Wayang. Plato's prisoners, like the non-
initiated spectators of the Wayang, are forbidden the sight
of the things which cause the shadows: in Java the curtain
is the obstacle that reinforces the interdiction; in Plato's
tale, the spectators have been chained first, in accordance
with the same interdiction. This interdiction which seems
arbitrary in the Greek text, is explained in Java as a tabu:
it i@ removed for the initiated only, who can be compared
to Plato's spectators when, liberated from their chains, they
are led forth to the things, the shadows of which they have
seen up to then.

Everything happens, then, as if Plato described, not a
profane show, but a religious ceremony similar to the origi-
nal Javanese Wayang. At this stage, the non-initiated
would see the shadows only, whereas the initiation rites
consisted essentially in the revelation of the sense of the
mysteries and in the disclosing of the sacred images.

Where could these mysteries have been celebrated?

6 Seo the critical bibliography and original synthesis in
W. H. Rassers, Over den oorsprong van het Javaansche toonech,
Bijdragen tot de Taal Land- en Volkenkunde van Nederlandsch
Indié, deel 88, 1931

7 Rassers, Ibid., pp. 350-359.

Google
86 J. PRZYLUSEI

Not on a public stage, but in a sacred place, in a grotto for
instance, because we know that caves have often been
chosen for the performance of religious ceremonies.’ We
may assume then that, when Plato places the scene in a
cave, he acts in conformity with ancient habits; this inference
is confirmed by the most ancient records referring to the
shadow theatre. Thus W. H. Rassero thinks’ that the
sacred enclosure where the Javanese drama is performed
must have been originally surrounded by walls and reserved
for the men, while the access to this was strictly forbidden
to the women. Besides, G. Jacob has shown" that, if
we combine Liiders’ interpretation of the Indian word
Saubhika, with that of the compound lenagobhikd, we obtain
for the latter the sense of: ‘“Héhlenschattenspielerin,” that
is to say: “woman who operates a shadow play in a cave.”
To this we may add that in India, at Sitabenga in the State
of Sirguja, has been discovered a cave with an inscription of
the 2nd century B.C., which seems to have served as a
shadow theatre.” Unfortunately, it is impossible to say how
the puppets and the public, evidently in small numbers
may have been placed respectively, Another exploration
of the site would be necessary, At any rate, the little we
know fits in easily with the hypothesis of Rassers who
looks upon the shadow theatre as a “developed form of a
secret rite")?

We are allowed the choice between two hypotheses:
Plato may have described, in the allegory of the cave, some
representations of mysteries that he knew of, or, “with
the help of two elements fumished separately, namely the
puppet-show and a shadow-acting of some kind or other”
he has constructed, without being aware of it, a show which

8 OF. Baintyves, Bssai sur les grottes dang les cultes magi-
co-religiouz et dans ta symbolique primitive.

9 Op. cit., p. 365.

10 Z.D.M.G., 68, p. 868, Berlin, Akad, Sitzungsber., Feb. 1916.

11 Referens in Z.D.M.G., 58, pp. 455-7. See also Jacob,
Jensen, Losch, Das Indische Schattentheater, pp. 3-4.

12 ‘Op. cit. p. 992.

Google
SHADOW THEATRE IN GREATER INDIA 87

ig precisely the shadow theatre. The first hypothesis seems
preferable to the other, because it would be hard to explain
otherwise how Plato, having in view the Athenian Punch
and Judy show, described a performance quite different
from it in fact, and placed it in a cave, thus presenting an
archaic show which modern erudition only enables us to
explain.

From now on, we can combine together two explana-
tions which were offered separately, and as mere conjectures.
According to M. Cornford, followed recently by P.
Frutiger® several features of the cave allegory were
borrowed from Orphism and from the religion of mysteries.
In the opinion of M. A. Dies Plato transposes a puppet-
show. We believe that the two explanations, far from ex-
cluding each other, converge towards the same point and
bring us back to the religious origins of the theatre. This
interpretation, which would hang in the air if one examined
just the Greek facts, seems confirmed by some recent works
about the evolution of the shadow theatre in the civilizations
of Asia.

An objection presents itself to the mind. If Plato were
acquainted with a form of the shadow theatre, why does
he not describe it more plainly and why does he content
himself with comparing it with puppets? We must not
forget that the show which inspired Plato must have accom-
panied the celebration of mysteries and, accordingly, must
have been known to a small number of the initiated only.
Plato could not have described it clearly and he was obliged
to use comparisons.

Here we may consider a hypothesis which has been
offered to explain the evolution of the Platonic theory.
Between the reduction of the first Dialogues and that of the
Phedon and the Republic a progress is noticeable, which
has been looked upon as a conversion to Pythagoreanism."

13 Cornford, Class, Rev., 17, 1908, pp.435-441; Frutiger,
Les mythes de Platon, p. 263.

14 F.M. Oornford, From Religion to Philosophy, London,
1912, p. 253,

Google

— -_ .
88 J. PRZYLUSKI

It ie difficult to prove that Plato was initiated in the mys-
teries; but he probably felt the influence of some currents
of religious. thought which, just like Pythagoreaniem and
Orphism, presented some affinities with the Oriental mys-
teries. In Plato, the world of ideas is an essentially mythical
conception; one reaches it through an initiation that the
cave allegory seems to describe faithfully. For Plato's dis-
ciple, the question is to grasp the connexion of the eternal
ideas with the transitory things. In the mysteries, the in-
troduction to mystic life was realized when the neophytes
were made to feel the links which join divine reality with
appearance, or, in other words, the myths with their repre-
sentations. Originally, and in order to impress the minds
of the initiandi, a working of shadows was used in the dark
and afterwards the neophyte was led back to the light.”*
Later on, the myths are represented by paintings and crav-
ings of religious scenes on the walls of an edifice; at this
moment the cave is replaced by the church. But the habit
has been long maintained of celebrating the mysteries in
subterranean places, as proved by the sanctuaries of Mithra
and by the Pythagorean Church of Porta Maggiore.

These considerations seem to me capable of throwing
some light upon the connexions of artistic activity with
religious life. In the inferior societies, the work of art
was not specifically different from the thing that it pictured
and the efficacy of magical rites proceeded from this con-
substantiality.* Totemic dance is founded upon the same
principle: by the mask and the tattoo, by the cries and the
mimic, man identifies himself with his ancestral totem; he
is a bird or a quardruped back again. At this point of
collective thought, the shadow is an emanation of the
being: it does not differ from the body that it prolongs.

15 A fragment, sometimes ascribed to Thomistius but probably
due to Plutarch, refers to this coming out in the light after painful
comings and goings in the dark; ef. Frutiger, Ibid., p. 268.

16 Cf. Levy-Brubl, Le Surnaturel et la Nature, p. 128:
“What wo call resomblance is consubstantiality in the primitive
man’s eyes.””

Google ' .F MICHIGAN
SHADOW THEATRE IN GREATER INDIA 89

The theatre, properly speaking, that is to say, a show
where an actor is different from the personage which he
embodies, can only exist in a society where religion tends
to replace sorcery. Devotion and morality are now what
uplifts the individual. To become the equal of the gods,
it is no longer sufficient to wear a mask and to dance: from
the humane to the divine an important distance must be
crossed; between the ordinary man and the hero, there is
also an interval. The supplicant is very different from Zeus,
just as the actor is inferior to Ulysses or Menelaus.

Let us transpose this feeling into philosophical reflection
the universe is not peopled any more with a mul
titude of species situated on the same level and animated
by a vital force comparable to the Melanesian mana; it is
conceived in the light of a hierarchy of beings. Now a dis-
tinction is made between several planes of reality. This
idea grows little by little more -precise in the minds; artis-
tic creation helps man to realize it, because the work of
art is divine as far as it is inspired, and at the same time it
belongs to positive things. The statue of the god, from
now on, appears as a reality both divine and human.
Looked upon in that way, the artist in general; the author
in particular, seems to be the rival of the creative god. Then
a transposition, which is characteristic of philosophical spe-
culation, is sufficient for comparison of the universe to a
huge theatre where human beings are the puppets, the strings
of which are pulled by the gods. It is one of Plato's
favourite images: “‘Dolls for the gods, here is what we are,
all of us who live.””

If philosophical speculation, instead of working around
classical tragedy or upon dolls, exerts itself upon the shadow
theatre, the analysis becomes more subtle. Instead of dis-
tinguishing two categories only, those who pull the strings
and the puppets, the author and the actors, the gods and
humans, one is compelled to separate three planes
at least, because in the shadow theatre, besides the invisible
gods and their images, there is their shadow projected upon
the screen, Moreover, all this phantasmagory is only pos-

Google 7
90 J. PRZYLUSKI

sible through the action of some light: suppress the focus
that lights the screen, the puppets will project their shadows
no more, just ae in the universe everything seems to die out
when the sun ceases to bestow its light. So that the analy-
sis of the show furnishes four elements: a universal princi-
ple, Fire or Light, mythical beings, icons or puppets and
the shadows of those icons. All those elements can be
framed in an idealist system like Plat. the Fire answers
to the Supreme Goodness; the mythical realities to the
numerical and geometrical notions, the icons can be com-
pared to the souls of beings and things, and the shadows
to the sensible things. If Plato had been content to be
Heraclites’ and Pythagoras’ follower he would perhaps have
imagined the following hierarchy: the Fire, the Numbers,
the Ideas and the things. But the shadow theatre, where
the shadows projected upon the screen are illusory and
deprived of consistency, can also suggest radical idealism.
India, where the shadow theatre is known from early tecords,
is also the land of pure idealism. In the Oriental literatures,
the universe is often compared to the playing of shadows
that is to say, to a delusive and unreal sight. This is an idea
familiar to the Buddhists. The Akeyupanigad indicates the
gradual stages of spiritual progress. These stages, called
bhimika, are seven in number. With regard to the sixth,
the freed-alive is compared to a man placed inside a magic-
lantern :
nirgranthah éantasamdeho Jivanmukto vibhdvanah
anirvdno *pi nirvdnas citradipa iva sthitah.

These verses allude to a show that can be seen in two
ways: outside the lantern or inside it. In the first case, the
spectator sees the shadows only; in the second case, he does
not only see the appearance but also the cause that produ-
ces it.

The shadow theatre does not interest the historian of art
and philosophy alone. It involves a problem of great im-

17 Of. J. Preyluski and Et. Lamotte, Bouddhisme et
Upanisad, BEFEO., 1932, part. 1, pp. 163 and 166,

Google
SHADOW THEATRE IN GREATER INDIA oi

portance for the history of institutions. We have seen that
in the Javanese Wayang in its ancient form, the men could
see the puppets whilst the women could only, see the sha-
dows projected upon a screen. This implies a ceremony
where the masculine sex is superior to the feminine sex.
But in Indonesia, in Indo-China and in India, the marks may
be found of a social condition where the women enjoyed a
privileged position and where the mother stood higher than
the father. We may be permitted to wonder whether this
social organization was expressed in initiation ceremonies
especially designed for the women, the men being excluded
or merely tolerated. It will be advisable to investigate whe-
ther such ceremonies have left any mark on the traditions,
the literature or the theatre of Greater India.

Google INIVERSITY OF MICHIGA
Political Relations of Tibet with India
By Dr. R. C. Majumpar.

Some time between 581 and 600 A.D. an obscure chief
named Srong Tsan united the scattered hill tribes and
founded a powerful kingdom in Tibet. He had an army
of about 1,00,000 soldiers and led victorious campaign to
Central India, a term used by the Chinese to designate Bihar
and probably also sometimes U. P. as distinguished from
Eastern India comprising Bengal and Assam. The nature and
extent of his conquest are not known to us, but it has been
suggested that the era known as San and current exclusively
in Bengal commemorates this forgotten foreign invasion of
Bengal. The name of the era, San, equivalent to the last
part of the name of the Tibetan King, and its epoch 593-
594 Ai.D. both favour this hypothesis,’ but it goes against the
generally accepted view that the era originated in the time
of Akbar by the conversion of Hijra into a solar year.”

Srong Tsan was succeeded by his son Srong-tsan Gampo.*
He was a remarkable figure. He married a princess of Nepal
and also won, under military pressure, the hand of the
daughter of the Chinese emperor. Through the influence of
his queens he was converted into Buddhism and introduced

1 Lévi—Le Népal, I, 147, 168-4.

2 Lévi’s view bas been refuted by K. P. Jayaswal (JBORS.,
XXII 172). Somo other views on the origin of Bengali San have
been summarised by D. Triveda in JIH, XIX. 292f.

3 Tho account of Srong-tsan Gampo is based on the following
authorities :—

1 The Chronicles of Ladakh (Translated by Francke in Anti-
quities of Tibet, Part II, pp. 82-84.)

2 A study on the Chronicles of Ladakh by Dr. L. Petech
(published as a supplement to THQ., XV), Ch. V.

3 Lévi—Le Népal, I, 148-152.

4 Sarat Oh. Das’s account (JASB. L. (1881). Part I,
pp. 218-224.)
(This is somewhat antiquated and should be read in the
light of Nos. 1-3).

5 L. A. Waddell—The Buddhism of Tibet, Ch. III.

Google 7
POLITICAL RELATIONS OF TIBET WITH INDIA 93

the religion in his country. The grateful posterity regards him
as an incarnation Bodhisattva Padmapani. He devised
the Tibetan alphabet on the model of the Indian, invited
Indian Pandits to Tibet, and had Buddhist Scriptures trans-
lated into Tibetan. He founded numerous monasteries and
castles at Lhasa and made that his capital. He also exten-
ded the suzerainty of Tibet in all directions.

Srong-tsan Gampo was a contemporary of the great Indian
emperor Harshavardhana. The death of Harsha, towards
the close of 646 or the beginning of 647 A.D., was followed
by anarchy and confusion, and the succession to the imperial
throne was claimed by one of his ministers, who evidently
held away in Bihar and whose name is given in Chinese
texts as Na-fu-ti O-lona-shuen, the original Indian name
being perhaps Arjuna or Arunaéva of Tiabhukti (Trihut,
N. Bihar). According to the story preserved in the Chinese
annals this Arjuna attacked a Chinese mission, under Wang-
hiuen-tse , that was sent by the Chinese Emperor to Harsha.
For reasons not explained, Arjuna killed most of the mem-
bers of the mission and plundered their property. Wang-hiuen-
tse fled to Nepal, secured 7,000 soldiers from Nepal and
1,200 from Tibet, and, returning to Indian plains, disastrously
defeated and imprisoned Arjuna and took him a captive to
China. It is said that Wang-hiuen-tse stromed the capital
city of Arjuna, and about 580 walled towns in India submitted
to him. Even Bhiskaravarman, the King of Kamaripa,
sent supplies to the victorious army led by Wang-hiuen-ts
The whole episode took place during 647 and 648 A.D. in
the plains of Bihar, probably to the north of the river Ganges
and not far from the river Gandakt.

The story reads more like romance than sober history,
and it is difficult to say what amount of historical truth there

4. JA., 9° Serie t. XV. (1900), 2978.

Tt appears that the mission of Wang-hiuen-tee was sent to
Magadha, and presumably the incident took place there. The
Chinese from of the name of the Indian king may mean O-lo-na-shun,
king of Ti-na-fu-ti (p. 800 fn, 2). The latter may stand for
Tirabhukti (N. Bihar),

Google
94 R. C. MAJUMDAR

is in it. For it is as difficult to accept the story of unprovoked
hostility on the part of Arjuna as to believe in the utter rout
of his army and thorough conquest of his country by 8,000
soldiers.

There is, however, no doubt that the Tibetan king,
Srong-tsan Gampo was drawn into Indian politics, either in
connection with the strange episode of Wang-hiuen-tse or in
pursuance of his father's policy. Whether he actually con-
quered any part of Indian plains is not definitely known,
but he is said to have conquered Assam and Nepal, and ex-
ercised suzerainty over half of Jambudvipa.’ (There is hardly
any doubt that Nepal was at this time a vassal state of :Tibet
and remained so for nearly two hundred years.

The reign-period of Srong-tsan Gampo is not definitely
known; but there is general agreement among scholars that he
died about 650 A.D.* He was succeeded by his grandson Ki-li-
pa-pu (650-679) who proved an extremely capable ruler.
He inflicted a crushing defeat upon China in 670 A.D. and
conquered Kashgar and the neighbouring regions in the North.
In the South he is said to have extended his conquests as
far as Central India,” but unfortunately no localities are
specified.

In 702 Nepal and Central India revolted against Tibet.
Nepal was subdued, and Central India, even if it did not
send regular tribute, did not remain free from depredations.
For, during the period 713-41 an embassy from Central India

5 Lévi—Le Népal, IE, 148.

6 Tibetan historians give various dates for tho birth of Srong-
tsan Gampo, ranging between 600 and 617 A.D. (JASB., L., 218).
According to Dr. Petech “it is established with certainty that
Srong-tean Gampo was born in 569 A.D. and reigned from 620 to
650 A.D.” (op. cit. p. 47-48), Lévi, (Nepal, II, 173) and Thomas
(iterary Tezts, 49) also place the king’s death at 650, tho latter
assigning him the 600-850 A.D. Francke notes that the
Chinese date for the king is 600-850 A.D. (op. cit.).

7 Lévi—Le Népal, II, 174, I do not know the authority for Sir
R. C. Temple’s assertion that “at this period Tibetan rule must
have spread southwards far into Bengal” (IA, 1916, p. 39).

Google JNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
POLITICAL RELATIONS OF TIBET WITH INDIA 95

came to China to seek for help against the [Tibetans and
the Arabs."

Lalitaditya Muktapida, the powerful king of Kashmir, was
also engaged in hostilities againt Tibet and sent an embassy
to China between 736 and 747 A.D. He represented to the
Imperial Court, that in conjunction with the king of
Central India he had closed the five roads leadings
from Tibet to India and obtained several victories against
the Tibetans. After Lalitaditya the task of keeping the
Tibet in check fell upon the Pala kings of Bengal.

The Tibetan king Khri-srong-lde-btsan (755-97 A.D.),
regarded as an incarnation of Bodhisattva Majfijusri was
very powerful king. According to the chronicles of Ladakh,
“he subdued all the provinces on the four frontiers” including
“China in the east and India in the south.""?° In a Tibetan
text, composed not much later than the ninth century A.D.,
his son Mu-tig-btsan-po is said to have brought under his
sway two or three parts of Jambudvipa." (This somewhat
vague statement is supplemented by the following details in
the same text.

“In the south the Indian kings there established, the
Raja Dharma-dpal and Drahu-dpun, both waiting in their
lands under order to shut up their armies, yielded the Indian
kingdom in subjection to Tibet: the wealth of the Indian
country, gems and all kinds of excellent provisions, they
punctually paid. The two great kings of India, upper and
lower, out of kindness to themselves (or in obedience to
him) pay honour to commands."

‘The king Dharma-dpal in the above passage undoubtedly
refers to the Pala king Dharmapala. As regards Drahu-dpun,
Dr. Thomas who edited the text suggests that it might mean
“nephew, or grandson, Drahu,” but it does not help us in
identifying him.

8 Lévi—Ze Népal, I, 174-5. 9 Ibid, 175.

10 Francke, op. cit. 87; Petech, op. cit, 65.

MF. W. Thomas—Tibetan Literary Tests and Documents
concerning Chinese Turkestan (1985), p, 270.

12 hid, 272-3,

Google
96 R. ©. MAJUMDAR

The next important king Ral-pa-can (c.817-c.836 A.D.)
according to the chronicles of Ladakh, conquered India as
far as the Gangasagara. This has been taken to represent
the mouth of the Ganges.’*

The facts culled above from the Tibetan texts throw in-
teresting glimpses into the political relations between India
and Tibet for nearly two centuries. How far Tibetan
claims of conquest and supremacy in Indian plains may be
regarded as historical facts, it is difficult to say. For the
Indian sources do not contain any reference to any military
campaign from Tibet, far less to the exercise of political
authority by its king in India.

While therefore we must suspend our final judgment about
‘Tibetan conquest and supremacy in India until fresh evidence
is available, we must not ignore the possibility that perhaps
the course of events in Bengal during 600-800 A.D, was
influenced by Tibet to a much larger extent than we are apt to
imagine.

The alleged victories of Khri-srong-Ide-btsan (755-97
A.D.), for instance, fit in well with what we know of the
political condition in Bengal about the middle of the eighth
century A.D. and might have played no inconsiderable part
in placing a Buddhist ruler on its throne. The specific
mention of Dharmay submission to this Tibetan ruler
or his son is of special interest. Whatever we might think
of the Tibetan claim, a conflict between Dharmapala and
the Tibetan ruler is not an improbable one. In this con-
nection we might recall the tradition that Dharmapala
occupied the throne of Nepala which we know was under
the political subjection of Tibet in the seventh and -eighth
centuries A.D. The expedition of Dharmapala to Kedara
and Nepala may also have some connection with Tibetan
policy. Lastly the alleged conquests of Ral-pa-can (817-836)
might explain the weakness of the Pala kingdom under Deva-

18. Francke, op, cit, 89-90, Francke assigns to Ral-pa-can
the date 804-16 A.D. but Dr. Petech (op. cit., 81) gives the date
817-836 A.D.

Google
POLITICAL RELATIONS OF TIBET WITH INDIA 97

pala which enabled the Pratiharas to conquer Kanauj some
time before 836 A.D. The advance of the Tibetans up to
the mouth of the Ganges would account for the sudden
collapse of the Pala kingdom under Narayanapala, if we
could push forward the dates of the incident by two decades,
which is not very much unreasonable in view of the proved
inaccuracies in the chronology of the Tibetan chronicles.
Lastly, the usurpation of a part of the Pala kingdom by a
Kamboja chief in the tenth century A.D. may be ultimately
traceable to the Tibetan expeditions, for Kamboja was an
Indian name for Tibet. But all these are mere conjectures
and speculations for'the present, and undue stress should not
be laid on them till corroborative evidence is forthcoming.
Varuna

By Dr. BATAKRISHNA GHOSH

Recently | have discussed the etymology of the name
of the god Indra as suggested by Professors Kretechmer
and Benveniste and also given a new etymology of the
name of the god Mitra.' In the present note I wish to
discuss the name of the god Varuna from the view-point
explained in detail in that article.

The name of this god is one of the oldest words of Indo-
European stock, for, as is well known, Skt. vdruna has
been always connected with Gr. ouranés. But, as will be
clear to even a casual observer, these two forms cannot be
equated staightway, and even Joh. Schmidt* expressed doubt
as to the basic unity of these two forms. It is necessary,
therefore, to consider if Schmidt's scep' was justified.

When comparing two forms we generally expect
that every syllable of each form should appear in the
same ablaut-grade in each of them. But, excepting in a very
few etymologies, we never find such ideal agreement.
Insistence on such ideal agreement would lead to the
rejection of well-established etymological equations like
Skt. ugds: Lat. aurora, for here Skt. ug- is in clear
disagreement with Lat. aur-. And yet nobody dreams of
doubting this etymology, and that rightly, for here the
Sanskrit root is but the reduced-grade form of the
Latin root. In comparing word-forms for the purpose of
etymological equation we should therefore be prepared
to accept as equivalent the corresponding syllables in the
forms concerned even though the syllables may not appear
in the same ablaut-grade in each of the forms. This is
absolutely necessary, for the original Indo-European
accent has nowhere been retained unchanged; it has been

1 Indian Culture, vol. VII, pp. 57-64. s
2 Bee Hillebrandt, Vedische Mythologie, second ed., vol. II,
p. 8 fon. 1

Google
VARUNA 9

changed mildly in Sansl
every other dialect.

This disagreement in ablaut-grade is in evidence not
only in the root-syllable (as in the of ugds: aurora) but
quite often also in the suffixes. Failure to always keep
in view this possibility of suffix-ablaut has led to
blunders in very high quarters. Saussure,’ for instance,
wanted to derive the u of vdruna from I.-E. ?, and Pischel*
felt himself constrained to accept the wholly unjustified
mutation of an to un in his attempt to explain téruna, dha-
ru’na etc. besides véruna. But it is quite clear that in all
these forms the element -una is the suffix, and that this
-una is nothing but the thematised form of the weak-grade
form -un of the suffix -van.* Wackernagel® is inclined to
derive daruné from I.-E. *dorun-' (<*dorya‘n-). Even
within Sanskrit, we can see the play of this suffiix- ablaut
in é4k-van: Sak-un-6, ddh-van: adh-un-d, and within Indo-
Iranian in Av. mi0-wan: Skt. mith-un-é. This is enough
to show that the suffix-ablaut van: un was active in every
stage from the original Indo-European ta Sanskrit. There
will be nothing implausible, therefore, if we divide the
word as vdr-una and take -una- to be the thematised
weak-grade form of the suffix -van.

This supported first of all by the much discussed Hittite
form u-ru-van-a. What sound exactly the Hittites wanted
to express by means of the Akkadian syllabic signs u-ru
will perhaps never be finally decided. But the suffix-element
-van- is quite clear in the Hittite form, and also in the Greek
form ouranés <*ovorvanos <*vorvanos. Usually the form
*ovorvanos is held to be the older one.’ Yet Bruj
stated in the clearest possible terms that the
*ovorvanos is a prothetic vowel of later origin.’ Also the

but more or less violently in

Mémoire, p. 181.

GGA., 1879, p. 574.

See my Linguistic Introduction to Sanskrit, pp. 98-99.
Altindische Grammatik, vol. III, § 67 b.

See, e.g., Boisacg, sub’ voce.

See Brugmann-Thumb, Griech. Grammatik, third ed., p. 178.

3

wronne

Google
100 BATAKRISHNA GHOSH

change of -rv- to r is quite common in Greek, e.g. Attic 6rd
<*korvé.’ It is true that the dialectical forms éranos
(Lesbian) and ranés (Doric) cannot be satisfactorily recon-
ciled with ouranés, but that isno reason why we should
hesitate to connect ouranés (<*vorvanos) with vdruna. It
can be safely assumed therefore that I.-E. *vor-van-os has
‘developed on the one hand into Gr. ouranés with the help
of the prothetic vowel o-, and on the other into Skt. odruna
as the result of the weakening of the suffix -van- to -un.

The Indo-European antiquity of the name Vdruna being
thus proved beyond doubt, we shall now try to understand
the character and career of the god who owned this name.
The most salient features of this god's career are the follow-
ing: among the Greeks he was a sky-god of minor import-
ance, the Mitanni—who invoked name in connection
with a peace-treaty—apparently regarded him as a god of
truth and fidelity, in the Avesta the name Varuna does not
occur at all but the god figures prominently under the
epithet Ahura Mazdah, and in the Reveda he is the highest
moral god sharing with the other great gods the epithet
A Moreover in India this old Uranus had become
Neptune to boot, for already in the Reveda he is closely
associated with the waters. Any theory about Varuna, to
be regarded as satisfactory, must be able to do adequate
justice to all these seemingly irreconcilable but fully estab-
lished facts.

It is clear that, among the ancient Indo-lranians at least,
Varuna had once attained a very high position, and that
even though he possessed none of those qualities which
readily appeal to a vigorous primitive people. Gods like
Indra, wielding thunder, would naturally be most popular
with such a people. But a sky-god, whose activities are all
passive, could not have impressed them much. The con-
ception of a passively benevolent deity could have arisen
among the Indo-Europeans only when they had made

9 For other examples, see Op. cit., § M4. 2.

Google
VARUNA 10

sufficient progress in civilisation to be able to appreciate the
virtues of peaceful life. But we know that the primitive
Indo-Europeans were by no means a peace-loving people.
They destroyed a great deal before they began to build.
Yet the great vault of the sky might have impressed even a
primitive people to some extent by means of its sheer
physical grandeur, though it was beyond the scope of a
primitive mind to abstract out of this natural phenomenon a
supreme god distinguished by purely ethical qualities. The
conception of the Greek god Ouranos might have arisen
at some such time. Though later than the Hittite Uruvana
in date, the Greek Ouranos would thus seem to represent
an older stage in the career of Varuna.

The Greek Ouranos had been promoted to the position
of Uruvana by the Mitanni already before 1400 B.C. It
would seem that by this time, at least the forefathers of the
Indo-Aryans among the primitive Indo-European tribes, had
acquired the rudiments of civilisation and culture from the
Mesopotamian world where they had been roaming for over
four centuries.? Varuna was now being invoked along
with Indra—which would show that the ethical god of
humble origin had risen enormously in status in the mean-
time. It was perhaps at this time that the aquatic element
entered into the being of Varuna. As Brandenstein™ says,
“the peculiar syncretism exhibited by Varuna can be best
explained on the hypothesis that the Hittite arunas ‘ocean’
was the cause of Varuna’s becoming an ocean-god, though
originally he had more to do with the night and the night-
sky.’’ To me it seems that Brandenstein’s theory is much
better than Kretschmer’s who considers Hit. aruna and
uruvana to be one and the same word signifying “‘ocean.””
Starting from the assumption that Varuna, the ocean-god,
was borrowed by the Aryans from some Asianic people,
Kretschmer suggested that the difference between the Hittite

10 See my Linguistic Introduction to Sanskrit, pp. 60-51.
11 Hirt-Festschrift, vol. I, p. 38.

102 BATAKRISHNA GHOSH

forms aruna and uruvana is due to the borrowed word being
mispronounced and imperfectly reproduced by the Hittites.’*

Varuna’s career during the Indo-Iranian period has to be
reconstructed on the basis of comparison between the Veda
and the Avesta. But, as is well known, Varuna appears in
the Avesta under the designation Ahura Mazdah, and
moreover, from a position of probable equality with Indra in
the previous age, Varuna under this new designation had
been promoted to absolute supremacy over all the gods by
the prophet of Iran. Darmsteter'* has aptly said that Ahura
Mazdah is no more different from Vedic Varuna, also called
Asura, than Zeus is from Jupiter. But this is merely a
statement of fact and no explanation of it. The explanation
is to be found, I believe, in the epithet Asura shared both by
the Iranian Ahura Mazdah and the Indian Varuna. As I have
tried to show before,** this epithet was probably borrowed by
the forefathers of the Indo-lranians from the Assyrians and
applied as a generic term to all their chief gods. The fore-
fathers of the Indo-Iranians saw the light of civilisation for the
first time when they came in contact with the Mesopotamian
peoples, and it is natural that under such circumstances the
only god of their pantheon who could claim to be a civilised
person should be boosted up. I think this is how it came
to pass that the Maryanni, the proto-Indo-Iranian ruling class
among the Mitanni, promoted Varuna, who previously
held an unimportant position, to the status of equality
with Indra, and also decorated him with the title ‘Asura’
borrowed from Assyrian pantheon. Varuna became Asura
Varuna perhaps already among the Mitanni.

We have now to answer only one question more! why
was Varuna’s name suppressed and personality boosted by
Zarathuitra? This question too | have tried to answer

12 Kretschmer, Varuna und die Urgeschichte der Inder,
WZ2KM., 1926, pp. 1-22.
18 SBE., vol., IV, p. lii. Benveniste however does not seem to be
point; seo Vrtra et Vrthragna, p. 46, fn. 1,
4 Indian Culture, vol. VIL, p. 61.

Google
VARUNA 103

before’*. Zarathu8tra was an uncompromising reformer,
and he wanted a complete break with the past tainted with
Daivic associations. His fearless courage is proved by the
fact that even Indra, the chief god of the Indo-Iranians, was
relegated to the netherworld by him. It is quite possible
that in his eyes the name, though not the personality, of
Varuna had been defiled through association with Indra and
other Daiva-gods among the Mitanni. May be, it was for
this reason that Zarathuttra altogether suppressed the name
of Varuna."* But this stern reformer had the highest regard
for the benevolent and virtuous character of the god. So he
taught his followers to worship Varuna under this new title.

Also among the Daiva-worshippers, so intensely hated
by Zarathuitra, Varuna, decorated with the Assyrian title,
continued to be worshipped, but this less civilised and more
virile people adored Indra far more. When at last in
India the Aryan nomads cried halt and set about developing
their distinctive zation, Varuna had already become an
imposing shadow devoid of tangible substance. But the
aquatic element, acquired so early in Asia Minor and flow-
ing for centuries through unobserved subterranean channels,
invigorated the dying god in a surprising manner and gave
him a new lease of life.

15. Ibid., p. 389.

16 If the locution Assara Mazds occurring in an Assyrian ins-
cription of the seventh century B.O. (seo Keith, Religion and
Philosophy of the Veda and Upanishads, p. 616) really refers to
Ahura Mazdih, then it will havo to be assumed perhaps that this
renaming of the old diety had taken place already before the
advent of the prophet of Iran. An anti-Daova movement was in
any case surely raging in Iran before Zarathustra.

Google iN OF MICHIGAN
Glimpses into The Hindu-Javanese Society
of Central Java

(From the middle of the seventh to the early
part of the tenth century A.D.)

By Himansu Bhusan Sarkar.
The Sources

Inscriptions, works of art and references in the Chinese
annals constitute our chief sources for reconstructing
the social history of Central Java between the middle
of the seventh and the second quarter of the tenth
century A. D. when it was the leading political factor in the
history of the island. But great caution is needed before
we can make use of these materials. In the introductory
portion of Prof. Krom’s Hindoe-Javaansche Geschiedenis*
he has surveyed with a masterly hand the difficulties attend-
ing a correct understanding of these records. The trat
ference of copperplates from one place to another, the
great uncertainty regarding the true import of Hindu-Javanese
official titles, the obscurity of the Old-Javanese language, the
demarcation of the exact boundary between real and
fantastic reliefs depicting contemporary social life, are some
of the outstanding difficulties besetting the path of the
historian. Although great strides have been taken in recent
years towards solving some of these problems, we must say
that we have not yet reached finality regarding most of
them. It is well to bear this in mind while studying the
pre-Islamic Institutions of Java. In view of these difficulties
we have to proceed on the basis of the greatest common
unanimity among scholars. Starting from this standpoint
we can draw an outline picture of social life in Central Java
for several centuries.

The Cultural Background

The inscriptions and monuments of Central Java may be
considered as the expression of a virile social life, and their

Google
GLIMPSES INTO THE HINDU-JAVANESE SOCIETY 105

sites would mark the zone where the life and culture of its
people developed and flourished. If we draw a line from
Pékalongan in the north to Baraténgah in the south and
from Sémarang in the north to Wanagiri in the south, that
would roughly represent the area where the people were
most active in building up their complex Hindu-Javanese
culture. Wit this area, there are some hills and rivers,
in whose vicinity are found :most of the inscriptions and
monuments of Central Java. We may recall in this conne-
zion the names of Dieng, P&rot, Kali b&b%r, Pésindon,
Gandasuli, Banjarnégara, Ngab’an, Baraténgah, K8mbang
Arum, Canggat, Tuk mas, Tumbu, Pakis, Barabudur,
Salatiga, Argapura, etc. The rivers were the easiest
channels of communication with the interior, and the earliest
wave of Hindu colonisation,. both in Borneo and in Java
proceeded along their courses. Even the earliest records of
Central Java, those of Tuk mas’ and Canggal,” lie not far
from Kali Ela, and if we proceed a little to the west, along
the Kali Praga, this brings us to the vi ty of Diéng, the
Old-Javanese Dihyang, where the earliest dated Old-Java-
nese inscription of Central Java has been discovered.” It
is not however possible to determine whether this influx of
Hindu culture into Java proceeded from the northern or
the southern shore of the island. What is, however,
observable in the Sanskrit charters is that their dates become
gradually later as we proceed from north to south.

The early inscriptions of Central Java, those of Tuk mas
(about 650 A. D.) and Canggal (732 A.D.), bear resemblance
to the Pallava script and are written in Sanskrit verse. It is
therefore r able to hold that the colonists of this region
at the beginning of its recorded history, came from the
Coromandel coast of Southern India or from the Hinduized
tracts of Western Java where the Pall: cript was in
vogue several centuries back. Probably there were also
some colonists from the Kalinga region of India, as the

1 Kern, VG. VII (1917), pp. 199-204.
2 Ibid., pp. 116-128. 3 0J0. UL.

Google
106 iH. B. SARKAR

name Ho-ling, which is deemed to be a Chinese transcrip-
tion of Kaliaga and applicable to Central Java,‘ seems to
testify. The use of Sanskrit language and metre and the
elaborate representation of the Hindu religious tradition
indicate that there was no dearth of Sanskrit scholars in
Central Java from c. 650 A. D. onwards. The Chinese
reference to a Javanese scholar from Ho-ling, Jfanabhadra,*
whom the Chinese call Joh-na-poh-t’o-lo points to the
same conclusion. It is stated of the Chinese pilgrim
Hwui-ning that he visited Kaling in 664-5 A.D. and remain-
ed there for three years, translating in collaboration with
Jaanabhadra the extracts about the Nirvana of Buddha
from the Agama-texts that belonged to the first class of
Hinayana-sitras. After the translation of Hwui-ning was
completed, he despatched it to China through Yun-k’i,
a youthful Chinese clergyman, who had received ordi-
nation under Jfanabhadra. It has been related of such
Chinese scholars that they knew not only Sanskrit, but
also the native tongue. It appears therefore that the native
language, which the Chinese called K’ouen-louen, played
above
that all the inscriptions of Central Java upto 782 A.D.
(the charters are dated respectively in c. 650, 732, 778, 782

4 Prof. Krom, Geschiedenis? p. 104, says that the term Ho-ling
should signify no more than that the Chinese bad found there a
“indu”-land, because the term ‘Kaling’ is used in a much broader
senso than what is derived from Kalifga. Cf. the modern parlance
in the Archipelago where every Indian, irrespective of the place
of his origin, called a Kling. It is possible, continues the
same scholar, that tho Chinese, after meeting elsewhere the Kalitga-

people as the representatives of the Hindu-element, also spoke of
“Kaling” in connexion with a similar culture in Java, without
meaning that the Indians had actually come from Kaliiga, Without
denying the force of Prof. Krom’s argument, it may be pointed out
that it is not for the first time that the Obinese found a “Hindu-
land” in Java, nor is there any proof that the term ‘“Kaling” for
all Indians” was current in the period under review. If we admit
‘that the culture of Central Java was similar to that of the Kaliige-
people elsewhere, wo indirectly admit the possibility of Kaliiga-
element and calture in the Hindu-Javaneso society of Central Java.

5. T-tsing, Mémoire, pp. 60

Google
GLIMPSES INTO THE HINDU-JAVANESE SOCIETY 107

A.D.") are written in Sanskrit, which was indifferently
used for Hindu and Buddhist charters. We have also seen on
Chinese evidence that the monk Jiiénabhadra was well
versed in Sanskrit. From these facts it follows that Sans-
krit had found its way into the highest circles of society
by the seventh and eighth centuries. Two phases are notice-
able in the introduction of this Sanskrit culture into Central
Java. The first phase is represented by the script of the
Tuk mas and the Canggal inscriptions which are usually
described as written in the Pallava script. We may then
imagine that there were Southern Indians these
places in c, 650 and 732 A.D. The second phase is repre~
sented by the ‘‘Pre-Nagari” script which is associated
with the efflorescence of Mahayana Buddhism and the rise
of the Buddhist Sailendra emperors of Central Java, and
represented in the charters of Kalasan’ (778 A.D.), Kélurak*
(782 A.D.), Ratu Baka,’ Plaosan’® and Sajiwan."' These
“Pre-Nagari’ inscriptions sustain the traditions of the
previous period, and prove the infusion of new blood from
Northern India into the Hindu-Javanese society of Central
Java. Prof. Krom holds’? that those who introduced
these Indian influences into Central Java were culture-
bearers par excellence, and not political potentates,
for the political organisation of Central Java was much
too “native” for this last development. We may recall
in this connexion that the preceptor of a Sailendra king
came to Java in 782 A.D. from Bengal and he purified
the head of the Sailendra monarch with the dust of his
lotus-feet."* There must have been other missionaries who
emulated the example of the Bengal preceptor, and more
over, the journey from India to Java must have been more
convenient and frequent at this period than in the days
of Fa-hian. These circumstances gave a great impetus

6 Inscriptions of Tuk mas, Canggal, Kalasan and Kelurak.
7 The latest edition by Bosch in 7BG, 68 (1928), pp. 57-62.

8 Ibid., pp. 16-56. 9 Ibid. p. 63.

10 OV. 1915, pp. 89-91. 11 VB@. 7 (1814), pp. 22-24.

12 Geschiedenis? pp. 100-1. 13 The Inscription of Kélurak.

Google
108 H, B, SARKAR

to the propagation of Mahayana Buddhism in Central Java,
which pushed Hinayana Buddhism into the background.
But whether this expansion of Indian culture was due to
those culture-bearers par excellence or to the traders or
to both, the fact remains that Sanskrit is used in all early
records of Central Java, and the earliest literary work of
that region the Candakarana,”* is an attempt to familiarise
the Javanese population with Sanskrit. There were also
other books of the same class, the svaravyafijan for example,
which Juynboll describes in BKI 6:8 (1901) pp. 630-33 and
which also attempt to teach Sanskrit. To the Indians
coming from various parts of the Indian continent Sanskrit
was perhaps something like a lingua franca from the very
beginning of Indians’ contact with Central Java, but Sanskrit
could make an appeal only to the intellectual class of the
Javanese and it could not be understood by the com-
mon people. This might have led to the development
of the Old-Javanese language, which was probably a
mixture of Old-Malay and Sanskrit with a couple of
centuries of uninterrupted and independent development
on the Javanese soil. | say a mixture of Old-Malay
and Sanskrit, because when the Chinese pilgrims speak
_ of K’ouen-louen as the native language of Java and
Sumatra, Old-Malay was used in the inscriptions of Sumatra.
This shows that Old-Malay is equivalent to K’ouen-louen.
But Old-Malay is somewhat different from Old-Javanese,
consequently we have to postulate an independent deve-
lopment of Old-Malay in Java under the circumstances
mentioned above. The oldest of the Old-Javanese records
is dated in 809 A.D. The specimens of the oldest literary
Old-Javanese records are preserved in the above-mentioned
Candakarana, whose date is not certain, but Prof. Krom
places it between 750 and 850 A.D.
Let us imagine that the formative period of Old-Java-
nese falls between c.’650 (date of the Tuk mas inscription
and of the Chinese report about K’ouen-louen) and 809

14 Med, Kon, Akad. v. Wet, 68 (1924), pp. 203-206.

Google
GLIMPSES INTO THE HINDU-JAVANESE SOCIETY 100

A.D. (date of the Old-Javanese stone inscription at Diéng).
This was perhaps a period of mutual understanding and
penetrative social intercourse through the medium of corrupt
Sanskrit and K/’ouen-louen. This reminds us of the
remark of Dr. Brandes, who mentions three stages in the
appropriation of Sanskrit into Old-Javanese: first, when
Sanskrit was learnt by hearing alone, then when it was
learnt by study, and lastly, when it was known by ever
debilitating memory alone. In the first period, Sa ekrit
words followed the peculiarity of the Javanese language,
in the second period they were correctly given, in the third
period Javanese pronunciation again triumphed. Accord-
ing to Prof. Krom, the Amaramala (Candakarana), which
is placed by him between 750 and 850 A.D., belongs to the
second stage. The firet stage is therefore to be pushed
back before c. 750 A-D., since when no non-Sanskritic
records have reached our hands.

‘The influence of Indian culture on the upper strata of
society was undoubtedly great, but how far did it penetrate
among the masses ? If we consult the inscriptions of Central
Java, both Sanskrit and Javanese, it would appear that
important personages sometimes bear Sanskrit names, but
even then, it is not possible to determine whether they were
Hindus or Hinduized Javans. While discussing the name of
Pamavarman in the West-Javanese inscriptions, Prof.
Vogel’® has admirably summed up his views on this point, and
his remark, quoted below, is equally applicable to the present
instance: ‘‘It would, perhaps, be equally risky to conclude
from Pirnavarman’s name, that he was of Indian birth or
extraction. He may, no doubt, have been an immigrant
from some part of the Indian continent, or a descendant of
such an immigrant, but equally well he may have been an
indigenous prince of Malay race who had adopted Hindu
culture and religion and along with it had assumed an Indo-
Aryan name. A Sanskritic name in itself would prove

15 Whilo editing tho West-Jav. inscriptions in Publ. Oudh.
Dienst T (1925), pp. 16-36.

Google
10 H, B. SARKAR,

as little with regard to the nationality of the bearer asa
name in Arabic, Hebrew, Greek or Latin. That Pirna-
yvarman, if not a Hindu, was at any rate Hinduized, may be
taken for granted.”” The names of the common folk in the
inscriptions are, on the other hand, mainly Javanese, but
we should not fail to mention that some Pauranic and Epic
names also occur in Old-Javanese inscriptions. They first
occur in the inscription of Kuburan Candi,"* dated 753 S.E.
where we come across the names of Narada (Na’), Pandava,
(Pa*), Baruna, Nandi (°di) and Ravan (Ravana). The names
of women are also given in the charters of Central Java
with the further designation that they are the wives or
mothers of such and such persons. We should however
bear in mind that the significance of the ‘name’ ws ind
still is, very peculiar in Java. The meanings of ‘name,’
‘title’ and ‘social status’ are synonymous in Javanese; for
example, the Javanese word jén8g may mean anyone of
these; it often happens that a Javanese changes his ‘“‘name””
on several occasions in a life-time, e.g., on marriage,
fatherhood, change of occupations or promotion, etc. We
may recall in this connexion the classical example of King
Balitung (898-910 A.D.) who changed his name in 907 A.D.
into Dharmmodaya Mahaéambhu on the occasion of his
marriage.’

A general study of the inscriptions leaves, however, the
impression that the social organisation was very little
affected by Indian factors. But it may perhaps be admitted
that many Indians, who had come over to Java for trading
or other purposes, remained in the land and married Java-
nese maidens. This intermarriage accelerated the pace
of Indianization of Central Java and had the same result as
Islamic intermarriage in the last days of Hindu supremacy
in Java in the beginning of the sixteenth century, with this
difference, that the Hindu intermarrying families did not
probably exercise sovereign powers which the Islamic

16 TBG. 70 (1980), pp. 157-170.
17 The Kédu charter of 829 8.E. (TBG, 67, pp. 172-208).

Google
GLIMPSES INTO THE HINDU-JAVANESE SOCIETY 111

princes ‘of the harbour-regions evidently did. This fusion
of blood and culture led to the development of a composite
society, which was neither Hindu nor Javanese, but Hindu-
Javanese, a society containing elements from both the
races ‘hile this impact did not much affect the social
and political organisation of Central Java, it revolutionized
the religious ideals of the Javanese people to an un-
precedented extent. Worships of forefathers and spiri
continued, but the highest homage was paid to the gods of
Hinduism and Buddhism, clear traces of which are found
in the inscriptions of Java. There are not only invocations
to Hindu and Buddhistic deities, but there are also temples
and images to glorify the blessings conferred by these
imported gods. We may recall in this connexion the august
caitya’ of Barabudur and the temple-complex of Lero
Jonggrang, which respectively bear eloquent tributes to
Buddha and Siva, the two highest gods of the Indian
religious systems.

Against this cultural background, we may best try to
understand the social life of the Hindu-Javanese population
of Central Ja The people of villages were divided into
various classes, such as anak wanua, tuha wanua, rama,
samakaki, etc., which terms we frequently come across in
the inscriptions. At the village of Kalasan, there were
Bhikgu-s in 778 A.D. We also read in the copper-plates of
Panaraga’* that noblemen and slaves, house-dwellers and
Bhikgus, and even the. four varnas participated in the
foundation of a freehold in 901 A.D. The four varnas are
mentioned for the first time in the inscription of K8boan
Pasar,’* dated 873 A.D., but the authenticity of the charter
is not beyond doubt, and moreover the charter is probably
of East-Javanese origin. The four varnas are again men-
tioned in a record of the time of King Dakga, who ruled in
915 A.D.?° In the reliefs of Barabudur we find representa-
tions of the royal court where the king confers with his
Brahmin ministers, the first of the four varnas. It is doubt-

18 OJO. XXIL 19 O0J0. IX. 20 KO, XVII.

Google
uz H, B, SARKAR,

ful if there were pure Brahmins of Indian extraction, nor
is there any reason to suppose the three other varnas as
living in Central Java in strict aloofness from the Hindu-
Javanese society. What is probable is that the Hindu-
Javanese society of Central Java was artificially modelled
upon the ancient society of Hindu India, but the similarity
did not go beyond this class division. Besides these four
varnas, we have references to particular class divisi
In the stone inscriptions of Pereng,” dated 863 A.D. there is
@ passage referring to the Kalangs of the Hindu-Javanese
society of Central Java. They have been supposed to be
the descendants of war-prisoners, or the Ur-population or
the lower folk with un-Javanese elements. The term hulun
haji, class of slaves, first occurs in the stone inscription
of Diéng,”? dated 809 A.D. Of classes of women we do not
hear much. It is only in the New History of the T'ang
dynasty” that we hear of a class of women—if we may use
the term ‘class’—called vigakanya. The passage runs as
follows: In this country (Kaling) there are poisonous girls,
When one has intercourse with them, he gets painful ulcers
and dies, but his body does not decay.” Whether we
believe in the story or not, such ‘poisonous girls’ are also
known to us from Indian literature.’** Besides these class
divisions there are also others known to the inscriptions of
Central Java, but their import is either unknown or uncer-
tain. The list of such terms will run into several dozens. It
appears therefore that there were various classes of people
and that there was gradation in the ranks of the villagers.
The latter point is clearly illustrated in the inscription of
Wanagiri*, dated 903 A.D., where reference is made to
people of the lowest, mediocre and highest positions.

21 Pocrbatjaraka, Agastya, pp. 45 ff. 22 0J0 IL.

28 This dynasty ended in 906 A.D. The statement given above
may refer to tho last half of tho 9th century.

24 Of. Penzer in Tawney’s Kathdsaritsdgara (translation) IL
(1924), pp. 811 ff.

25 TBG. 74 (1934), pp. 269-295.

Google
GLIMPSES INTO THE HINDU-JAVANESE SOCIETY 113

The position of women in the Central Javanese society
was fairly high. The Chinese annals state” that in 674-5
A.D. the people of Ho-ling took their ruler a woman
of the name of Si-mo. Her rule was most excellent. In
her time even things dropped on the way were not stolen.
Although there are some untrustworthy elements in the
story, the reference to a particular year invests the story
with a halo of reality, and what is more important, the story
refers to the choice or selection of the ruler by the people.
A mutilated passage in the Canggal inscription, dated
732 A.D., has been deemed by some scholars” to refer to
a joint sovereignty of a king and his sister.

In the inscriptions of Central Java prior to 929 A.D.,
we do not hear of any other ruling queen or princesses.
But there are‘notices of other notable women who occupied
high positions in society. The stone inscription of Karang-
téngah,”* dated 769 .S.E. (Brandes) or 719 $.E. (Juynboll and
Goris), seems to refer to a land-grant by a certain Palar and
his wife. This may indicate that the wife had some
control over the property disposed of. An East-Javanese
inscription” leaves no doubt about the matter, but some
Central Javanese charters also furnish substantial eviderice
on this point. The copperplates of Panaraga, ‘dated 823
S.E. refer, for example, to the names of some women who
were the owners of lands at Taji and who gladly gave them
away for the temple of Devasabha. In the inscriptions
officers receive gifts of various kinds, but it is not until
884 A.D.°* that we hear of gifts being awarded to women,

26 Notes, p. 14 and Pelliot, Deux itnéraires, p. 207.

2% Vide Krom, Geschiedenis, pp. 123 ff.

But the interpretation of the passage by Prof. Vogel seems to
me to be nearer the mark: “He the son of the sister of (the person)
named Sanniha...... ig (now) ruling the kingdom with justice.” If
king Safjaya ruled with his sister, the poet was bound to use tho
third case-ending for svasr. Secondly, the very next verse opens
with ‘yasmifcha-sa(ti), which can only signify that the king ruled
alone.

28 0J0. IV. 2% 0JO. XXXII. 90 OJ0, XVII

Google verses
na H. B. SARKAR

but even then the instance is not beyond doubt, because
there is a mutilated passage round about. The first positive
reference is found in 901 A:D.°! when Lady Dheta, the
wives of the patih-s and the nayakas receive gifts of various
kinds. This distribution of gifts to women becomes almost a
regular feature of central Javanese inscriptions from this date
onwards. Women were also entrusted with other functions.
For example, Lady Dheté and her children are alone
placed in charge of the temple of Devasabha and its free-
hold, so that they may protect the sacred religious founda-
tion. What is noteworthy is that Lady Dheta was probably
the raka of Sri bharu, (‘Lord of Sri bharu,’) the latter
possibly being a place-name. If my interpretation of the
relevant passage is correct, it would furnish an additional
proof of the rights of women over manors.

Early marriage was not unknown in Central Java. A
proof is furnished by the inscription of Kembang Arum,
902 A.D.,°* where among the donees we come across the
names of older matrons, mothers of young children and
wives of youngsters. In some cases men were polygamous,
and a presumptive evidence is furnished by the inscription
of 908 A.D., published by Dr. Van Naerssen in Aanw. Kol.
Inst., 1934, where Ladies Sucint8, Kina, Waita and Sawita
appear to be the wives of samgat Kalangwungkal (PI. II,
re° 11-12), but a more conclusive evidence is furnished
by the inscription of P&sindon®, dated 904 A.D., which
the spiritual teacher Siwita purified his body
(and) went away with all (his) wives and two daughters.”
This very passage also indicates that women went to
pilgrimages along with their husbands. But, far the most
important record throwing light on the status of women is
the so-called jayapattra-Dieduksman™ which resembles
charters of Central Java though its findspot is not
known. According to Brandes, its date is 849 S.E., but

31 OJO, XXII. 32 JGIS. 1938, No. 1.
88 TBG. 25, pp. 464-65, 84 TBC. 32 (1889), pp. 98-149.

Google
GLIMPSES INTO THE HINDU-JAVANESE SOCIETY 115

Goris** and Stutterheim™ read the date as 829. It records
that a certain Tabwél was sued by samégat Pinapan, viz.,
Gawul and his wife Gallam for the repayment of money
borrowed from sang Dharmma by Campa, the wife of
Tabwél. As Campa died childless and the complainant
did not arrive at court, the case was dismissed. It is also
noteworthy that among the witnesses there was Guru woju,
the wife of a former (?) samégat Pinapan. The inscrip-
tion proves that there were women-judges, that women
could borrow on their own account and that a women
could also be a witness which last privilege is usually
denied to women in Hindu Law. Women also participated
in religious festivities celebrated on the occasion of found-
ing free-holds, when there were feasts, music, dancing,
jesting, rec’ boar-fights and cock-fights. We shall have
occasion to describe this fully later on.

(To be continued.)

35 OV. (1928), p. 64.
36 TBG. 75, p. 421 n, 1 and 437 n. 4.
5

Google
NOTICES OF BOOKS

The Stone Implements of Bandarwela (Ceylon)—By
N. A, Noone and H. V. Noone. (Ceylon Journal of Science,
Vol. III, Part 1, Section G, Anthropology, Nov. 15,1940).

The authors collected about 2000 stone implements from
Bandarwela, the famous site where the Sarasins and Hartly
found, at the beginning of the present century, interest-
ing records of prehistoric man’s activities. The specimens
were mostly gathered from the surface of the knolls and
from the slopes of the ridges. Some were, of course,
“extracted from depths of up to 24 inches.” These knolle
were most probably working sites. The implements are
mostly made of quartz and rock crystal; a few are made
of chert.

The authors classify the artefacts into five major groups
namely (a) Polyhedrals, (b) Bifaces (c) Flake and blade
implements (d) Geometrical pieces (e) Special pieces. Each
of these groups is again divided into minor divisions and
subdivisions. In classifying these objects the authors have
followed the new nomenclature and have also suggested
some new names. They also claim to have discovered
some new types of implements such as the burinate tools,
nosed-scrapers, semi-discoidals, etc. In the absence of
geological and palaeontological evidences the authors have
rightly desisted from suggesting any probable age for these
implements. Though the implements are of varied shapes
and sizes the authors think them to belong to one culture.
“According to the Seligmans’ (1911) investigations this
culture is at least two thousand years old, but so far as we
know, it cannot yet be said, when it came into existence
or when it came to an end.” Even in 1911 Seligman found
the Veddahs using stone and shell implements, and if we
go towards the east, we find stone age, even at present, in
Australia and parts of Melanesia.

The information given in the article is interesting and
useful. But it is curious that the authors have not taken

Google
NOTICES OF BOOKS nz

into consideration the important paper by Mr. P. E. P.
Deraniyagala on ‘The Stone Age and Cave Men of Ceylon”
published in September, 1940, in the J. R. A. S,, Ceylon
Branch, where the author has tried to settle the chronologi-
cal sequence of prehistoric finds of Ceylon with the help of
geological and palaeontological evidences.

T.C. Das

Dvipamaya Bharata (Insulindia)—By Suniti Kumar
Chatterji, Professor, Calcutta University, 369 pp. with numer-
ous illustrations. The Book Company Limited, Calcutta
1940. Re. 4.

It was nearly a decade and a half ago that a happy
conjuncture of circumstances enabled our great national poet
Rabindra Nath Tagore to undertake his long-projected and
long-deferred tour in the islands of Java and Bali still
redolent of the memories of the Indian cultural influences.
The mission which lasted almost exactly three months
(July to September 1927) was in every sense a marked
success. Not only did all sections and communities of the
people, including the highest representatives of Government,
honour themselves by according an enthusiastic welcome
to India’s illustrious son, but India herself through her
great cultural ambassador was able to renew, however
fitfully, her long-lost connection with those lands on which
she has left the indelible stamp of her genius in their
imperishable works of art as well asin the daily lives of
their people.

The present work is a dairy of this memorable tour
written by one who accompanied the poet throughout his
journey. Cotributed originally in a series of articles to the
Bengali periodical Prabasi, (Bhadra, 1334 to Aéwin 1338
it has been brought together in a book-form by an
enterprising publishing firm of Calcutta, Messrs. The Book
Company Limited. It is enriched with a large number of
illustrations from photographs taken on the spot by the
author’s companions. Of the merits of this book it is

Google
ns NOTICES OF BOOKS

impossible to speak in terms of too high praise. It may be

id without exaggeration to be a unique work in Bengali
iterature. Not only does it describe lands and peoples till
then almost unknown to Bengali-speaking readers, but it
deals with history, topography, art, literature and, last but
not the least, the colourful life of the people. The author
has the artist’s knack of painting with a few strokes brilliant
word-pictures of the landscape, the dwelling-houses, the
religious observances, the manners and customs wl he
has witnessed, nay even the idiosyncracies of the individuals
whom he has met. The extraordinary range of his interest
in men and things, his keen powers of observation and
narration, his simple fascinating style, his sage reflections
interspersed with humourous anecdotes, make his work a
model of what a book of travel should be like. His fine
ibility is reflected in his appreciation of the
songs, dances, plays, paintings and sculptures and other
works of art which it was his good fortune to witness. His
atriotism and keen religious sense are equally reflected in
his observations on the great temple architecture and divine
images of Java. His occasional digressions, such as his
account of the waves of Hindu colonial and cultural expan-
sion in Indonesia, are models of concise, accurate narratives.

The work which is aptly dedicated tothe celebrated
artist Nandalal Bose of Santiniketan, consists of two parts,
Part 1 describing the visit to the Malay peninsula on the
route to Java and Part Il dealing with the journey in
Sumatra, Bali and Java.

In a work of such varied contents itis not possible to
single out any topics for special mention. But we may
notice some points of peculiar interest. To us in India
the author’s account of the social and economic conditions
of our countrymen settled in those lands of South-East
Asia naturally makes a deep appeal. On the whole
the author gives us a pleasing picture not only of their
enterprise but also of their simplicity, hospitality and deeply
religious nature. The author has a good word to say about
the great work done by the Dutch administrators in conserv-

Google
NOTICES OF BOOKS 119

ing and restoring the ancient monuments, in preserving and
promoting the ancient learning and in diffusing popular
knowledge by means of such institutions as the Kirtya
Liefrinck van der Tuuk. Very enjoyable and instructive
are the author’s accounts, derived from personal experience,
of those finest flowers of Indo-Javanese culture, the dance
and the shadow-play. Very striking are his descriptions
of his visit to the famous monuments of Prambanam,
Borobudur, Chandi Mendut, and so forth. Of the magic
island of Bali the author gives us many wonderful pictures,
such as those relating to the Sradh ceremony, the ritual
gestures, the funeral rites and so forth. Not less striking
are his frequent sketches of the life and character of the
Balinese people from prince to peasant. Of the extra-
ordinary value of these descriptions there can be no manner
of doubt for according to all competent observers Bali is
fast plunging into the vortex of modern civilization and
losing her pristine charm and simplicity. As an American
tourist told the poet in course of a conversation. “The
Serpent is fast galloping into this Eden.”

‘The author’s concluding words are well worth repeating.
We make no apology for reproducing them even in an
imperfect translation. “Like a bright-hued dream our visit
to Insul-India came to andend. But the influence of this
dream upon my intellectual and spiritual life will remain
evermore, For as the result of this visit Ihave been able
to some extent to appreciate the greatness of my people,
to acquaint myself somewhat with the genius of Ancient
India and by the awakening of my spiritual sense through
the appreciation of beauty to know myself better than
before."”

In a work of such outstanding merit it would be invidious
to point out a few slips. If, however, a second edition of
this work is called for, it would be necessary for the author
to modify his identification of Srivijaya with Palembang
(pp. 137, 148), his location of Suvarnadvipa and the
Sailendras in Sumatra (pp. 137, 148, 178), his equation of
Champa with Annam and Cochin-China (p. 137), his

Google
120 NOTICES OF BOOKS

reference to Balaputradeva as endowing villages for founda-
tion of a Nalanda monastery (p. 177), his description of the
Sailendras as being subject to Java and afterwards destroy-
ed by the Malays (p. 180).

It isto be earnestly hoped that this fine work may be
translated into English and some of the major Indian
vernaculars, so that it can reach a wider circle of readers,

U.N. Ghoshal

irdesa of Vasubandhu—Sanskrit Text
3. Edited with an English Translation,
Introduction and Vocabularies. By Sujit Kumar Mukho-
padhyaya, Visvabharati-

This work of Vasubandhu consists of thirty-eight memorial
verses. As the editor has confessed, these cryptic verses in
the absence of a commentary are not intelligible in all their
implications. The Tibetan versions on account of their
extreme faithfulness and literaliom do not render any
appreciable service in the matter of interpretation of the
philosophy. The translation into English, too, though care-
fully correct, is, taken by itself, not of much help in this
regard. The truly helpful feature of the editor's work is
the collection of parallel passages given in an appendix. But
the real difficulty which confronts a student of philosophy
lies in the looseness of the terminology and the poetic
imagery employed in the text quoted. The terminology
requires to be carefully defined so that the exact connotation
of the terms can be fixed with logical precision. I now
propose to sum up the results attained by me after careful
study and reflection on the text together with a statement of
the problems, which have exercised my mind, with a view
to focus the attention of scholars on them.

The Ultimate Reality according to Vasubhandhu seems
to be pure consciousness bereft of diremption into subject
and object, as we can gather from the Trimsika and its
commentary. This is also called Parinigpanna or the
Transcendental Form. The second form is the Parataritra

Google
NOTICES OF BOOKS tat

or the contingent. The third is the Parikalpita, which |
Propose to render as ‘false construction.’ The editor
translates it as imaginary, but | do not think it free from
undesirable association, which should be scrupulously
guarded against in philosophical writings. These three
forms or types of reality constitute the subject-matter of the
book under review. The second type of reality is desig-
nated as the asatkalpa, i.e., the principle of false construc-
tion. It has three varieties, viz. (I) the primordial consciot
ness, also called the store-house consciousness, which
contains in itself the odsands, the predispositions and
potentialities of evolution ; (2) the contingent or the causal
products; (3) the illusory appearance or false construction
(verse 8). The contents of consciousness come under
the second head. They are the products of the formative
principles, called vdsan which are inherent in the pri-
mordial store-house consciousness. The third variety com-
prises all extra-mental things, which are false constructions
out of the objective reference of the contents of conscious-
ness. The extra-mental objects are unreal, and so the
objective reference is unreal. But the contents of conscious-
ness per se have empirical reality, as they are not facts of
interpretation like the extra-mental objects. They are real
ideas, evolved out of real vdsands though they are false as
hypostatized. The Transcendental Form is absolutely real,
as it is bereft of subject-object polarisation and so’self-
contained. This is in brief the statement of Vasubandhu’s
metaphysical the: Incidentally | may refer to a textual
difficulty in verse 36. Mr. Mukhopadhyaya translates
citta in the text as Pure consciousness and as mind alter-
nately without caring to distinguish the meaning of the
terms. From a careful consideration of the parallel passages
quoted by the editor and of the evidence of the Trimsika it
is quite obvious that cittamatra means the pure subjective
consciousness (grahakacitta) and not Pure consciousness in
the present context. Moreover, Vasubandhu seems to
reserve the word citta for impure consciousness both in the
present work as well as in the Vijfiapatimatratasiddhi. If

Google
122 NOTICES OF BOOKS

the editor's translation were correct, Pure con
would not be the ultimate Reality, as it is said to be
sublated in the realization of the Dharmadhatu, the Absolute
Reality, which is equated by Vasubandhu with Pure
consciousness in the Triméika.

I now propose to state my difficulties; firstly, what is the
relation of Alayavijfidna to the Pure Transcendental cons-
ciousness ? Is it organic or accidental ? Secondly, ie the
Alayavijfidna a real transformation of the First Principle or
only an appearance ? Thirdly, is the Alayavijfiana ulti-
mately real ? Fourthly, is the Transcendental Pure cons-
ciousness one in all subjects or variant with the varying
egos ? Fifthly, is the Transcendental consciousness a
changing dynamic principle or a static entity owing all ite
dynamiem to the vdsands ? Sixthly, are the vdsanas integral
to the Transcendental consciousness or external forces
which somehow supervene upon the former ? The last
question can be propounded in a different form as follows-
Is the Paratantra a real evolution of the Transcendental
Principle or only an adjunct having no organic connection
with it ?

Vasubandhu speaks of alaya a transformation.
of pure consciousness and Sthiramati unmistakably empha-
sizes the reality of the transformation. A student of
philosophy finds in it a veritable crux. How can the real
transition refrain from infecting pure consciousness with its
contingent character? How can it again be reconciled with
the positive assertion that it is the Tathata, the unchanging
principle which remains the same for all time? The situ:
tion comes to be thi Either we must belive the change to
be unreal and apparent or believe the Transcendental to be
only the consummation of the process of evolution and not
ever-existent. So the firet question leads to a dilemma.
The same result applies to the second question. As
regards the third question, we can give a categorical
answer. The dlayavijfidna cannot lay claim to ultimacy,
as it is definitely asserted to come to cessation or at any
event to undergo transformation into pure consciousness,

Google
NOTICES OF BOOKS ia

I am not definite on the fourth point, as | have not been able
to light upon any text. | shall be infinitely obliged if the editor,
who is working on Vasubandhu, satisfies me with definite
textual proofs. The problem can be solved if the dharma-
dhdatu or dharmakdya can be shown to be one or many. The
problem is of paramount importance, since the decision
whether Vasubandhu’s philosophy is monistic or plur
hinges upon its solution. The fifth and sixth questions are
identical in philosophical value. The one may be regarded
as the corollary of the other.

We may find a clue to the solution of the problems in
verse 12, The Paratantra, which covers the whole field of
consciousness on this side of the Transcendental conscious-
ness, is declared to be real only as the condition of illusion.
The subject-object polat ion is false and the Paratantra
in 20 far as it participates in this false appearance is unreal.
Its reality consists being the basis of illusion. But the
real basis is the real consciousness. In so far as itisa
ct manifestation it is unreal. If the contingent (Para-
tantra) aspect be only an apparent and illusory transforma-
tion, the vasands, which are the formative principles of
this transformation and have their seat in the citta or
Glayavijfidna, must be asserted to be equally unreal. At
any event Vasubandhu is unmistakably clear that dlaya-
vijfigna with all its evolutes is not conterminous with the
Tathata, though it runs parallel to it and is bound up with
the former so far as the first start and subsequent career are
concerned. In point of fact the historical career of alayavi-
ifiana has no beginning, though it has an end. If the Tathata
or pure consciousness be a transcendental principle for all
time and not the conclusion of the historical evolution of
alayavijféna, the latter together with all its eventual
products must be declared to be an unreal appearance in and
over the transcendental consciousness. If this be the true
interpretation of Vasubandhu’s idealism, it should be called
Transcendental Idealism and if the ultimate reality be one in
all centres of consciousness, for which there is every pre~
sumption though Vasubandhu is rather non-comittal, we

6

Google
124 NOTIOES OF BOOKS

shall have no hesitation to equate it with the philosophy of
and Sankaracarya. I appeal to the editor to
address himself to the task of collecting data from all
sources, Sanskrit, Tibetan and Chinese, for which he is
singularly competent, so that the tentative suggestions of
mine can be tested and our knowledge of Vasubandhu’s
Philosophy be put upon an unassailable footing.

In fine, I shall be failing in my duty if I do not hand-
somely acknowledge the merits of the work. The industry
of the editor, his judicious selection of parallel passages
and neat editing deserve our sincere praise.

Satkari Mookeriee

The Early History of Ceylon, by G. C. Mendis, B.A.»
Ph. D.: with a foreword by Prof. Wilhelm Geiger: The
“Heritage and Life of Ceylon’ Series, No. 1: Fourth Edition,
revised and enlarged: Y. M. C. A. Publishing House,
Calcutta, 1940: pp. 173, with 20 illustrations, 11 maps
and plans: Price, Indian, Rs. 2/8, Ceylonese Rs. 2.50.

This is an exceedingly useful little book, well-planned
and well-executed in the usual style of si

relating to Ceylon has made ite wel-
come advent. Within the short compass of some 150 pages
the ancient and medieval history of this Island, which is
really a part of India when we consider the race, language
and culture of its inhabitants, from the earliest times to the
end of the reign of Parikramabahu VIII (1509 A. D.) is
given; during the reign of this king the Portuguese
arrived in Ceylon ushering in the modern period of the
history of the Island. In his foreword Dr. Wilhelm Geiger,
the veteran Pali and Sinhalese scholar, has culogised the
critical eye with which the author Dr. Mendis has looked
at the old historical traditions. The work indeed, as
Dr. Geiger says, is a rich source of interesting information,
and this information is reliable. [t begins with an account of
the pre-historic peoples of Ceylon, including the Viddas,

Google
NOTICES OF BOOKS 125

and their culture. Dr. Mendis leayes the question of the
arrival of the Aryan speakers in Ceylon, the linguistic for-
bears of the present-day Sinhalese, open, as to which part
of India they migrated from. It looks from a number of
linguistic reasons noted by Geiger and by the present
reviewer that the first Aryan-speaking settlers from India
came from the Gujarat side rather than Bengal, although
in subsequent times there was some close connection with
Bengal and Eastern India (Magadha) from where Buddhism
came to Ceylon. The history is unfolded epoch by epoch,
and the author has not confined himself to political history
alone—he has given ample indication of the civilisation of
the people in the succeeding periods as it manifested itself
in art and literature, in agriculture and trade and in
administration and organisation. The interaction of
Buddhism and other faiths, Brahmanism and the pre-Aryan
religion, has also been discussed: and political and other
connections with India which have always been exceedingly
intimate, have also been fully taken note of. The
illustrations form a representative selection of Ceylonese art
and architecture, and the maps and plans are all very useful.
Altogether this book forms a very good little introduction
to the history and culture of Ceylon, the first of the lands of
Greater India, and public appreciation of it has been amply
demonstrated by the fact that the book has already seen its
fourth edition since its first publication in 1932.

Suniti Kumar Chatterji,

Google -
Editorial Notes
Visit of Rao Bahadur K, N. Dikshit.

On the occasion of the brief visit to Calcutta of Rao
Bahadur K. N. Dikshit, Director-General of the Archaeologi-
cal Survey of India, the members of the Managing Commit-
tee of the Greater India Society, of which he is an elected
Vice-President, entertained him at a Tea Party in the rooms
of the Mahabodhi Society on the afternoon of the 24th July
1941. The pleasant function, which was opened with a
welcome address by the Honorary Secretary of the Greater
India Society, was attended by most of the members of the
Mana ging Committee and several other well-wishers of the
Society. The distinguished guest mixed freely with the
company who appreciated him very much. On the next
day Mr. Dikshit delivered an interesting and well-attended
public lecture on India’s Heritage at the Ramakrishna
Mission Institute of Culture, Calcutta, with Dr. D. R. Bhan-
darkar in the chair.

Fifth Indian History Congress, Hyderabad.

The Greater India Society has received and accepted
the invitation of the Local Secretary, Fifth Indian History
Congress, to send delegates to the Congress which is to be
held at Hyderabad on the 2Ist to the 23rd December next.
The names of gentlemen representing the Society at the
Congress will be published in the next number of our Journal.

Deccan College Post-Graduate and Research Institute,
Poona.

The Secretary of the above Institute has recently written
to us offering exchange of its publications with those of the
Greater India Society, The offer has been gladly accepted
by ourselves.

Celebration of the eightieth anniversary of
Sir P. C. Roy, President of the Greater India Society.

To commemorate the attainment of his eightieth year
by Sir P. C. Ray, a public meeting was organised by the

Google
EDITORIAL NOTES 127

Prafulla Jayanti (Celebrations) Committee on Saturday the
2nd August at 4 p.m. in the spacious hall of the Calcutta
University Senate House. The function was presided over
by Sir Manmatha Nath Mukherjee, Ex-Chief Justice of the
Calcutta High Court, who is one of the oldest and most
respected of Sir P. C. Ray's pupils. The vast crowd which
filled the hall to suffocation was an index of the esteem and
reverence in which the great Indian savant and philanthro-
pist is held by the people of Bengal. The proceedings aptly
commenced with the singing in chorus of Bankim Chandra‘s
immortal poem Bande Mataram (‘Hail Motherland’) which
has come to be accepted over a large part of India as our
national anthem. This was followed by recitation of some
fine Sanskrit verses composed by Pandit Vidhusekhara
Bhattacharya, Professor of Sanskrit, Calcutta University,
who is a member of Managing Committee of the Greater
India Society. Then came the presentation of addresses
by various public bodies such as the Jayanti Committee,
the Post-Graduate Department of the Calcutta University,
the Royal Asiatic Society of Bengal, the Bangiya Sahitya
Parishad, the Indian Chemical Society, the National Institute
of Science and the Greater India Society. The address of
the last-named body is quoted below in full:

“To

Sir Prafulla Chandra Ray, Kt., C.I.E., D.Sc., Ph-D.,
F.C.S., F.R.A.S.B., etc., etc.

“Sir, .

“On behalf of the Greater India Society of which you
have been the honoured President for some years
past, we beg to offer you our heartiest felicitations
‘on the completion of your eightieth
“By your publication of the History of Hindu Chemistry
you opened the eyes of the scholarly world to the
attainments of our ancestors in this branch of
science. The Nagarjuna prize, which is one of
your gifts to the Calcutta University, fittingly comme-
morates your rediscovery of the great Hindu chemist-

Google
198,

EDITORIAL NOTES

philosopher from the oblivion of centuries. You
have thus been instrumental in opening a new
chapter in the cultural history of India and Greater
India.

“By the simplicity of your life, your so
well-being of your students and your li
for the cause of learning, you have been a shining
example of the great ideals of an Indian guru.
You have seen the fulfilment of your ideale in
the creation of a sampradaya of your pupils who
are filled with the same devotion to Truth and
Service which has been your distinguishing charac-
teriatic.

“You have been a pioneer in the cause of industrial
awakening of our province, and you have sounded
the clarion call to our people to rouse them from the
slumber of ages.

“We are grateful to you for your conspicuous servici
the cause of science, and for your noble wo!

our mother-tongue through the Bangiya
Sshitya Parishad and other institutions.

“Your services on behalf of the poor and the afflicted, and
your saintly career as a life-long Brahmacharin will be
an inspiration to our people for generations to come.

“We pray to the Almighty that you may long be spared
to serve our Motherland.

in

We remain,
Sir,
Yours in love and esteem,
Upendra Nath Ghoshal,

Honorary Secretary:
Kalidas Nag,

Honorary Joint-Secretary,
On behalf of the Managing Committee of
The Greater India Society,
Calcutta University, Calcutta.”
The 2nd Auguat, 1941.

Google
EDITORIAL NOTES 1

The main function of the meeting being over, the Presi-
dent delivered an address in Bengali, the gist of which is
given below. The contribution of Acharya Ray to the
national life said the President was unrivalled. He was &
path-finder in the new awakening of India. A country
which could produce such a man had no reason for despait
It is to be doubted whether his unrivalled genius or his cl
like simplicity or his love for the poor and the destitute or his
renunciation was his greatest contribution to the national
life. The example of his celibate life has cast a spell over
his countrymen. They all prayed to God that he might
attain the hundredth year of his life.

In replying to the addresses the honoured guest delivered
a most moving speech. He complimented the various
public bodies sharing in the function upon their achieve-
ments and wished them a very happy future. To the
Greater India Society he offered his congratulations for
attaining recognition in the international sphere. He conclu-
ded his speech with these solemn words which are given
below in English translation.

“The bark of my life has almost reached the port of its
destination. The time has come when I should lead
myself beyond the reach of praise or blame and step
ashore, When Ihave served my time, I shall still
desire to live again and again in the lives of those
who will carry on the struggle from generation to
generation until the fourfold curse of tyranny,
injustice, proverty and ignorance is lifted from the
brow of my beloved long-suffering motherland.”

Thailand Research Society

Thanks to the kind initiative of Dr. H.G. Quaritch
Wales we have for some time past been able to establish
our much-desired scholarly co-operation with Thailand.
Recently the Secretary of the Thailand Research Society
made us a welcome offer for mutual exchange of our
publications. It gave us great pleasure to signify our
immediate acceptance of this offer. We have since

Google
130 EDITORIAL NOTES

received the latest issue (vol. XXXII, Pt. 1) of the Journal
of the Thailand Research Society which contains, among
other things, the following appreciative notice of our
Journal.

“Journal of the Greater India Society,
Vol. VII, No. 2, July, 1940.

“The latest number of this Journal testifies to the un-
diminished activity of the Greater India Society. The
field covered should be of special interest to our part
of the world for obvious reasons. This number,
moreover, pays particular attention to a field of
research not easily accessible to the average student
of Oriental Research—that of the Dutch East Indies
—for the reason that very many people do not read
Dutch with the same facility as English, French or
German.”

The Greater India Society also conveys its grateful
thanks to some individual members of the Council of
Thailand Research Society for extending their valuable
co-operation with its activities. Some time back Major
Erik Seidenfaden, President of the Thailand Research
Society, in reply to a letter of the present writer, sent us a
copy of His Highness Prince Dhani Nivat’s monograph,
The Coronation of His Majesty Prajadhipok, King of Siam
as his personal gift to the Greater India Society. A brief
notice of this most interesting monograph will appear later
in this Journal. We are also pleased to announce that
His Highness who is a Vice-President of the Thailand
Research Society and Acting Editor of the Society’s Journal
has very recently been kind enough to present us with a
collection of his notes and reviews in English together
with a book in Thai discussing the origin of the Panji Cycle
of Romances. It is to be devoutly hoped that the co-
operation so happily started between the Thailand Research
Society and ourselves will continue to flourish in the coming
years to our common advantage.

Google
EDITORIAL NOTES 131

In Momoriam—Rabindranath Tagore

On the 7th August, 1941 passed away at his Calcutta
residence Rabindranath Tagore whom the world had long
recognised as one of the greatest Indians of his generation
and one of the noblest humanists of all times. It is not
possible for us in the present place to take stock of the
brilliance of his achievements as a God-gifted seer and
Poet, as a staunch Indian nationalist and withal a lover of
universal humanity. But a Society which had the proud
privilege of counting the illustrious poet as its patron from
its very foundation may well be excused if it recalls at this
tragic hour the happy memories of his association with its
activities. We well remember how when in January 1934
we started the Journal of the Greater India Society, we
were greatly heartened by his profound message which we
have pleasure in reproducing below:

“To know my country in truth one has to travel to that
age when she realised her soul and thus transcended
her physical boundari when she revealed her
being in a radiant magnanimity which illumined the
eastern horizon making her recognised as their own
by those in alien shores who were awakened into a
great surprise of life; and not now when she has
withdrawn herself within a narrow barrier of obs-
curity, into a miserly pride of exclusiveness, into a
poverty of mind that dumbly revolves round itself
in an unmeaning repetition of a past that has lost its
light and has no message to the pilgrims of the
future”’.

When in January 1936 we brought out the Sylvain Lévi
Memorial Number of our Journal, we had the pleasure of
opening it with the following touching tribute paid by
the greatest of. the then living Indian poets and thinkers
to the doyen of European Orientalists :—

“Sylvain Lévi is dead. The penetrating mind that explor-
ed the obliterated paths of India’s ancient history,
difficult of access, has laid down its task. And for the

he has rendered to India, precious

132

EDITORIAL NOTES

in its rareness and luminous in its sagacity, we can
but offer our homage of praise to his memory. He
joined the past which is immortal and which it
was his own life's work to bring to the recognition _
of the living present. The students from India who
had the opportunity of receiving his unfailing kind-
ness and untiring help will ever mourn his loss, the

“He has a special claim of gratitude from me who repre~
sent Santiniketan, for he was the Gist of the European
scholars who readily responded to my call and came
to train our own students and scholars in the scienti-
fic technique of historical research; he has helped
me to create in our érama the tradition of the
international fellowship of culture which he could do
toa perfection, not only because his scholarship was
great, but also because he had the beautiful gift
of friendliness and genuine sympathy for students
and: patience for them even when their capacity
was too elementary for the learning which he himself
possessed”.

Ina happier mood we were able to extend our heartiest

felicitations (/GIS., Vol. VII, No. 2) to our illustrious patron

on

the occasion of his receiving the high and well-deserved

honour of Doctorate of Literature (Honoris Causa) of the
Oxford University. By a curious coincidence this solemn
ceremony, which took place at Santiniketan under the
presidency of Sir Maurice Gwyer, Chief Justice of the
Federal Court of India, took place exactly a year previous to
the poet’s lamented demise. The grand address which the
poet read in Sanskrit in accepting the honour well merits—
though in an English garb—reproduction in full.

“Delegates from Oxford University,

“‘In honouring me, an Indian poet, your ancient seat of
learning has chosen to express its great tradition of
humanity. This tradition, to-day, has acquired a
deeper and more pressing significance; | feel proud

Google
EDITORIAL NOTES 133

to accept its message, and the recognition it
conveys, as a symbol of the undying spirit of man.
I welcome you here at Santiniketan, and | assure
you that this friendly gift that you have brought
to me and to my country, will remain in our hearts
and bid us stand together for the common cause
of civilisation.

“In an era of mounting anguish and vanishing worth,
when disaster is fast overtaking countries and
continents, with savagery let loose and brutal thiret
for possession augmented by science, it may sound
merely poetic to speak of any emerging principle
of world-wide relationship. But Time's violence,
however immediately threatening, is circumscribed,
and we who live beyond it and dwell also in the
larger reality of Time, must renew our faith in
the perennial growth of civilisation towards an
ultimate purpose.

“I accept this recognition from Oxford University as a
happy augury of an Age to come, and though I
shall not live to see it established, let me welcome
this friendly gesture as a promise of better days.”

Now that the cruel hand of death has snatched away

our much beloved gurudeva from our midst, we. can but
share in the universal grief caused by his irreparable loss.
On the 12th August 1941 we had the melancholy duty of
meeting ih the room of the President of our Society and
passing a condolence resolution which was duly conveyed
to the poet’s son under his signature.

Google
134 REPORT OF THE GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

Extraots from the Annual Report of the Gre ater India
Society for 1940

General

With the year 1940 the Greater India Society completed
the thirteenth year of its existence. During the year under
review the Society could not but suffer from the effects
of the Great War which cut off all contacts with almost
the whole of the scholarly world outside India. The
Committee, however, is glad to observe that it has neverthe-
less, been possible for the Society to maintain its activities
at their usual level.

Management

A slight change took place in the personnel of the Mana-
ging Committee during the year. Mr. T. N. Ramachandran,
Curator of the Archaeological Section of the Indian Museum
was elected as an additional member of the Committee.
Simultaneously Rao Bahadur K. N. Dikshit and Mr. O. C.
Gangoly two of our oldest members were elected to the new
office of Vice-Presidents of the Committee. In other
respects the constitution of the Committee remained the
same as in the previous year. Dr. U. N. Ghoshal continued
to act as Honorary Editor of the Journal of the Society
over and above his duties as Honorary Secretary of the
Society, while Dr. Kalidas Nag continued to act as Honorary
Joint Secretary. The business of the Committee was
disposed of as the occasion arose by circulation among
the members.

Office

No change has to be reported as to the office establish-
ment. Babu Gauri Kinkar Banerji carried on the duties
of office clerk on his usual annual honorarium. The
menial work was carried out by Darwans of the ‘Prabasi’
office on their usual annual allowance... The office typing
was done gratis as in former years by Mr. R.K. Ghoshal.
Inthe absence of Mr. P. K. Sen Mr. P. M. Sur of the same

Google rr
REPORT OF THE GREATER INDIA SOCIETY 135

firm (Messers. Sur & Sen) audited the accounts of the
Society for the year without any remuneration. The
Committee conveys its sincere thanks to the last-named
gentleman for his valuable services on behalf of the Society.

Members & Subscribers

The number of members on the Society’s Roll on the
31st December, 1940 was nominally the same as on the
corresponding date of 1939... Itisto be hoped that steps
will be taken henceforth to realise all membership fees
and as much of the arrears as possible. The Committee
has the pleasant duty of recording as in previous years
its high appreciation of the support extended to the Society's
Journal by various provincial governments and Universities
in British India, by the Director-General of Archaeology
and the various officers under his jurisdiction and by the
enlightened Governments of Baroda, Gwalior, Mysore and
Travancore.

Finance

The closing balance of the Society's accounts on the
31st December, 1940 was Rs. 1084-0-11 as compared with
Re. 1355-7-8, the corresponding figure for the previous
year. On the receipt side the Society profited as in previous
years by the kind donation of Re. 400-0-0 from the National
Council of Education, Bengal and Rs. 100-0-0 from Dr. N. N.
Law, one of our esteemed members.

Under the head ‘Subscription to Journal’ the receipts
amounted to Rs. 176-10-0 as compared with Re, 135-7-8
the Ggure for the last year. The sale of books and pamph-
lets accounted for Rs. 143-5-10, with which may be
compared Re. 184-1-6, the corresponding figure for 1939.
It is to be earnestly trusted that steps will be taken to
increase the income under this head in the next year.
On the expenditure side the largest item naturally was under
the head ‘Printing, binding and stationery’ which accounted
for Rs. 743-8-0. With this may be compared the figure
for the last year viz. 448-0-9. The extra expenditure was

Google
136 = REPORT OF THE GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

incurred for meeting the belance of charges for publication
of ‘Travels of Tibetan Pilgrims in the Swat Valley’ by Prof.
G. Tucci. Under the head ‘Allowance to staff’ the charges
amounted to Rs. 155-9-0 which compares favourably with
the corresponding charge for the previous year, viz. Re.
165-3-0. This item included the typist’s and proof-reader’s
charges for the two issues of the Journal. The Postal
charges accounted for Rs. 74-69 which shows a slight
decrease as compared with the figure for the previous year,
viz. Re. 86-746.

Publications

Two issues of the Journal (vol. VII, nos. | and 2) were
published in the course of the year. The longest article
appearing in its two successive issues was that of Dr. J.
Hackin, Director of the French Archaeological Delegation
in Afghanistan. It described the results of the excavations
carried out by the author on the site of a ruined Buddhist
monastery at Fondukistan in the Ghorband District of
Afghanistan. Other important papers dealt with the anti-
quities of Cambodia, Malay Peninsula and Indonesia, with
the Hittites and with the interrelation of India and
Indonesian cultures. It may be mentioned in this connection
that the Journal continued during the year to be on the
exchange list of most of the standard Orientalist periodicals
both Indian and foreign. In the year under review the
Society was able to publish, in spite of the difficulties
created by the Great War, the work called Travels of
Tibetan Pilgrims in the Swat Valley by Prof. G. Tucci.
As regards the English version of Hindoe-Javaansche
Geschiedenis by Prof. N. J. Krom, the complete Ms. was
returned to the translator Mr. H. B. Sarkar for revision.
It is to be hoped that the printing of this important work
will be taken up in the course of the present year. Of the
five monographs included in the series of Bulletins of the
Society, three were announced in the previous year for
re-issue since their stock was almost or entirely exhausted.
‘The Committee regrets to state that this much-needed task

Google
REPORT OF THE GREATER INDIA SOCIETY 187

remained unfulfilled. It isto be earnestly hoped that the
revised editions of these useful works for which there is a
steady demand might be taken in hand at an early date.

Library
During the year under review the Society's Library was
enriched by a constantly flowing stream of Journals, books
and pamphlets received in exchange or for review or by
gift. Under our existing arrangement with the Calcutta
University these were made over from time to time to the

University Library to be kept in the Society’s own separate
collection.

Lectures

As in former years a course of popular lectures was
arranged for by the Society in collaboration with the
National Council of Education, Bengal. The names of
the lecturers and the subjects of the lectures with the dates
of their delivery are given below:
1, Sarasi Kumar Saraswati—The Art of Paharpur in
relation to Greater India, 23, 8. 40.
2. Nihar Ranjan Ray—Wall-Paintings of Pagan, 13.9.40.
3. Suniti Kumar Chatterji—Sanskrit in Asia, 19. 9. 40
4. Jitendra Nath Banerjea—Ancient Indian Cult-deities
and their emblems on coins and seals.
5. Kunja Govinda Goswami—Bangarh Excavations,
10. 12. 40
6. Priya Ranjan Sen—Bengalees in Burma, 4. 2. 41
7. Kalidas Nag—Assam and Manipur, 12. 2. 41
To all these gentlemen who have benefited the Society
with their lectures the Committee offers its most sincere
thanks.

Congresses and Conferences

During the year under report the Committee accepted
invitations for sending delegates to the fourth Session of the
Indian History Congress at Lahore. Rao Bahadur K. N.
Dikshit and Mr. Jitendra Nath Banerjea attended it as the
Society's representatives and took an active part in its

Google SNIVERSHY OF ler
188 REPORT OF THE GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

deliberations. At the Tirupati session of the All-India
Oriental Conference the Society was represented by Mr.
©. C. Gangoly (who was President of the Fine Arts Section),
Dr. U. N. Ghoshal, Dr. Suniti Kumar Chatterje and Mr.
Jitendra Nath Banerjea.

Conclusion

In concluding this brief report about the working of the
Society for the last year the Committee cannot but gratefully
remember those friends and well-wishers of the Society
who have helped it in various ways. Among these special
mention should be made of Dr. Shyama Prasad Mookerjee
(President of the Post-Graduate Council, Calcutta University),
Dr. Narendra Nath Law (Editor, Indian Historical Quarterly),
Mr. P. N. Sur, (Incorporated Accountant), Mr. Ramananda
Chatterji (Editor, Modern Review) and the authorities of
the National Council of Education, Bengal. It is however
a fact, that funds are urgently needed for meeting the
Society's immediate requirements, more specially that of
housing its growing collection of publi Equally
insistent is the need for young recruits for continuing the
good work that the Society has started on such a modest
scale. The Committee appeals to all lovers of Indian
culture in this country and abroad for help in this noble task,
and it earnestly trusts that its appeal will not go in vain.

“

tion

Google
Obituary Notice ~~
Joseph Hackin, 1886-1941

By the tragic death of Prof. J. Hackin in an air-crash
in England on the 23rd April last the world of Oriental
scholarship has been deprived of one of its most devoted
workers and the Greater India Society of one of its most
respected collaborators.

Born in the petty State of Luxembourg on the 8th November
1886, Joseph Hackin received his early training in Orienta-
lia at the Ecole des Hautes Etudes in Paris, where he took
his lessons in Sanskrit and Tibetan at the feet of that doyen
of French Oriental the late Prof. Sylvain Lé:
interest, however Jay in the sphere of Buddhist Art and
Archeology, specially those of Tibet and Eastern Turkes-
tan, He found congenial occupation at the Musée Guimet,
that famous Museum of Orients tiquities in Paris, which
he served with conspicuous ability first as Assistant Keeper
and afterwards as Curator for many years. His first published
work, prepared in collaboration with a Chinese colleague,
was a Catalogue of Chinese paintings preserved in the
Musée Guimet (Tchang Yi-tchou et J. Hackin. La peinture
chinoise au Musée Guimet, Annales du Musée Guimet,
Bibliotheque d'Art, lv, Paris, 1910). He followed this up
with a number of valuable works on the art of Tibet and
adjacent lands. Among these we may mention his mono-
graph on the art of Tibet based on’ the Bacot Collection
of the Musée Guimet (L’Art tibétain, Introduction de M-
J. Bacot, Paris, 1911), his Memoir on the Life of the Buddha
as represented in the Tibetan Iconography (Les Scénes
figurées de la vie du Bouddha dans l'iconographie tibétaine,
Mémoires concernant l’Asie Orientale, Vol. II, Paris,
1916), Some Notes on Tibetan Paintings, Ripam, No. 7),
Indian Art in Tibet and Central Asia (The India

8

Google
140 OBITUARY NOTICE

Society, London 1925) and, last but not the le:
his important work on Indian and Tibetan Sculpture in
Musée Guimet (La Sculpture indienne et tibétaine au
Musée Guimet, Paris, 1931). Of a more general character is
his Guide-catalogue of the Buddhist Collections of India,
Gandhara, Eastern Turkestan, North China and Tibet pre-
served in the Musée Guimet (Paris, 1923). Speaking of the
last-named publication, Mr. G. de Roerich rightly observes
that it is not merely » dry inventory of the Museum collec-
tions, but a general survey of the Buddhist Art in India,
China, Central Asia and Tibet.

In the field of archeological exploration Hackin’s grea-
teat work lay in Afghanistan. Thanks to the treaty nego-
tiated by Prof. A. Foucher with the Afghan Government in
1922, the archeology of the Afghan country till then barred
by seven seals was thrown open to the enterprise of French
scholars. This was immediately followed by the founda-
tion of the French Archeological Delegation in Afghanistan,
which under a succession of brilliant scholars has been
exploring and excavating various ancient sites in that fasci-
nating country for the last 20 years. Appointed Field-
Director of the Delegation in 1930, Hackin undertook a
series of explorations on sundry sites of archeological
interest in the Afghan country. One of his earlier excava-
tions was that of a Brahmanical temple, the first of its
kind as yet found in Afghanistan, with a unique Sirya
image at Khair-khaneh, 12 miles north-west of Kabul. The
results of these excavations were communicated by the late
lamented scholar to the Journal of the Greater India Society,
Vol. Ill, no. | in a paper which appeared in an English
garb under the title “Archeological Exploration of the
Neck of Khair-khaneh (near Kabul)."’ The field-season
of 1936-37 was devoted by Hackin and his associates to
the exploration of a number of sites of which the most im-
portant were Begram (ancient Kapiéi), Shotorak and Fondu-
kistan. Among the r of Begram were discovered nu-
merous bronze and glass objects of the workmanship of
Syrian artists (first to fourth century A.D.), and what is still

Google
OBITUARY NOTICE 14d

more interesting, a considerable number of ivory plaques of
Indian workmanship bearing affinities to the Mathura School
of Art of the Kushan times. At Shotorak were laid bare
the ruins of Buddhist shrines which yielded numerous sculp-
tures of the third to the fourth century A.D. At Fondu-
kistan the excavations revealed the remains of a Buddhist
monastery consisting of a main sanctuary and its adjuncts.
Here were found numbers of clay modellings and mural
paintings showing Gupta and pre-Gupta influences and a
few antiquities (including a most interesting pair of Lunar
and Solar deities) representing Central Asian types. The
Journal of the Greater India Society had the privilege of
publishing a most valuable account (in English translation)
of these excavations from the pen of the late lamented
scholar in two successive issues (“Archaeological Excava-
tions in Fondukistan,”’ Journal of the Greater India Society,
Vol. VII, No. 1, pp. 1-14; Ibid., No. 2, pp. 85-91, illustrated
with 34 figures), Among Hackin’s more important publi-
cations concerned with Afghanistan antiquities may be
noticed two volumes in the series Memoirs of the French
Archaeological Delegation in Afghanistan, Vol. III, (Nou-
velle Recherches Archéologiques 4 Bamiyan, Paris, 1933),
Ibid., Vol. VII, (Recherches Archéologiques au Col de
Khair-khaneh prés de Kabul, Paris 1936), Ibid.. Vol. IX,
Recherches Archéologiques & Begram, 2 vols., Paris, 1939),
this last being reviewed by Mr. O. C. Gangoly in JGIS.,
Vol. VII, no. 2. Another volume of the same series (Bamian)
has been left incomplete at the time of his death.

The Musée Guimet with which Hackin was associated for
the greater part of his scholarly career underwent consider-
able development in his life-time. New halls were added
to it like the Sallee Pelliot (for housing the rich collections
of silk paintings recovered by the Pelliot Mission from the
walled-up library of Tun-huang in north-west China) and
the Sallee d’Afghanistan for storing the results of exca
tions by the French Archeeological Delegation in Afghanis-
tan. In 1935 the Museum was in a position to celebrate
its 50th Anniversary in a befitting manner.

Google
142 OBITUARY NOTICE

Besides undertaking his most fruitful work of excavation
in Afghanistan Hackin found time to join a French archzeo-
logical expedition in Eastern Turkestan (1931) and to visit
Japan to further the work of the Franco-Japanese Society
(Maison Franco-Japonaise): in Tokio in 1932-33. He also
used to conduct courses in Indian art and archeeology, in
Tibetan and Central Asian art at the Ecole du Louvre in
Paris. Among his purely literary publications may be men-
tioned his edition and translation of a Sanskrit-Tibetan
Manuscript of the 10th century A.D. brought by the Pelliot
Mission from Tun-huang (Formulaire Sanscrit-tibétain
du X° siécle, Mission Pelliot en Asie Centrale, Paris, 1924).

The sudden death of Dr. Hackin while he was still
engaged in the midst of his useful labours in the Afghan
country is a painful reminder of the toll which the present
war is taking on the lives of those gifted scholars (alas! too
few) who have devoted their lives to the recovery of the lost
civilisation of the countries touched by Indian culture. It is
to be feared that a long time will elapse before the work of
the French Archeeological Delegation in Afghanistan will
be resumed by a scholar of the depth, penetration and
enthusiasm of Joseph Hackin.*

U.N. Ghoshal

“The writer expresses his obligations to Mr. Ramananda
Chatterjee, Editor, Modern Review, Calcutta, for permission to utilise
certain statements appearing in Mr. Georges de Roerich's paper
on the late lamented scholar, which was published in Modern Review,
Tune 1941,

Google
Rabindranath Tagore
(Born 7th May, 1861; Died 7th August, 1941).

The Poet-Laureate of Asia and Cultural Ambassador of
the New Orient is no more. From the very inception of our
Greater India Society Rabindranath was our Purodha and
in this note we offer him our humble gratitude and homage
for all that he has done for the renaissance of India and for
the revival of the cultural relations of India with the outside
world.

The Poet's father, Maharshi Debendranath Tagore, we
should remember, was the pioneer of the revival of Vedic
studies in Bengal, financing about a century ago, a special
mission of Bengali Pandits to Benares in order to acquire
the correct traditions of Vedic lore. The earliest Bengali
translations of the Vedas were published in Debendranath's
Journal Tattoa-Bodhini Patrika, and Swami Dayananda
Saraswati, the founder of the Arya Samaj based on Vedic
culture, came to Bengal specially to greet the venerable
father of the Poet. The ideals of the Vedic Ashrama and
the “Message of the Forest’ transmitted through the
Aranyakas and the Upanishads remained till the Poet’s last
days the mainspring of his spiritual and artistic creations.

In his early boyhood Rabindranath was nurtured in the
cultural atmosphere created by Bankim Chandra Chatterjee,
the editor of the Bangadarsan and Dwijendranath Tagore, the
editor of the Bharati. While still in his teens Rabindranath
was composing poems and songs like a true prodigy that he
was, and sailed away to Europe (September, 1878—March
1880) while he was writing essays on “The Anglo Saxons and
their literature,"’ “Beatrice and Dante” in the Bharati. He
studied English literature under Henry Morley at the
University College of London, but returned to India (March,
1880) from his first foreign tour without completing any
course of studies. In 1881 he composed his first musical
drama Valmiki Pratibha based on the Ramayana. In
1884, he published Bhanusimha Thakurer Padavali showing

Google -
14 OBITUARY NOTICE

his wonderful mastery of the composition of the mediseval
Vaignava poets. The same year he published in his
volume Kadi o Komal (‘Sharps and Flats’), translations from
Shelley. Mrs. Browning, Ernest Myers, Aubrey De Vere,
Victor Hugo, Musset and others. He imbibed his love for
French literature from his brother Jyotirindranath Tagore,
who enriched our Bengali literature with copious translations
from the classics of the Latin group of languages. Two
other friends of the Poet, helping him to appreciate
European literature in early days, were Mr. Loken
Palit I. C. S. and Mr. Priyanath Sen, the erudite poet and
critic. He paida second visit to Europe in 1890 (August—
November). In 1891 when the Poet appeared as an indepen-
dent editor of his Bengali monthly Sadhana (December,
1891) he published highly thoughtful es: ind criti
of contemporary literature, his famous play Bisarjan
(‘Sacrifice’), his magnificent poem on Kalidasa's Meghadata
(‘Cloud Messenger’) as well as his ‘Diary of a traveller in
Europe.’ In the same year (1891) was consecrated the
temple at Santiniketan where the Poet was to start ten
years later his famous school. In 1894 on the passing away
of Bankim Chandra Chatterjee the Poet composed a paper
on the Father of Bengali Novels. The same year he wrote
articles showing the poetic and cultural value of our folk
songs and nursery rhymes which he had been collecting
with zeal from the villages of his father's estates.

In 1900 (December) he delivered his first sermon at the
tenth annual festival of the Santiniketan where on the 7th of
Paus (26th December 1901) the following year, he
formally opened his Brahmacharya Ashrama. In 1901 also
he revived Bankim Chandra’s Bangadargan which he
continued to edit for five years. A series of domestic
tragedies followed. The poet's wife Srimati Mrinalini Devi
died on the 23rd of November, 1902; his second daughter
Renuka died in May, 1903 ; the venerable father Maharshi
Debendranath died in January, 1905 ; and his youngest son
Somindra died in November 1907. Instead of crushing
his spirit these sufferings purified the soul of the Poet and

Google
OBITUARY NOTIOE 145

elevated his literary creations to the realm of divine mysti-
* cism which would find its supreme lyrical expression in
Gitafijali (1910). The memories of his dying children were
immortalised in a volume of poems Sifu, (‘the Crescent Moon’
in English adaptation) 1903 and in the poignant symbolical
drama Dak Ghar (‘The Post Office’), 1912. The Poet we
also the leader and the minstrel of the first great Indian ni
tional (Swadeshi) movement born out of the partition of Ben-
gal. In 1905 he opened a new line of cultural co-operation
by helping Sister Nivedita of the Ramakrishna-Vivekananda
Mission and the famous Japanese art-critic Okakura Kakuzo
(author of the Ideals of the East) in the organization of the
New School of Art in Bengal sponsored by E. B. Havell and
Abanindranath Tagore. In 1907 he began to publieh in the
Bengali monthly Prabasi edited by Ramananda Chatterjee,
his great social novel Gord, reflecting the age of the
Swadeshi movement. In 1909 in a drama Prayaécitta
(‘Atonement’), the Poet anticipated the philosophy and
technique of non-violent non-co-operation (Satyagraha of
Gandhi). He wrote a paper on Tapovana (‘The Hermitage’)
and the allegorical play Raja in 1910. The fiftieth Birthday
of the Poet was celebrated in 1911 with a grand meeting at
the Calcutta Town Hall and the same year the Poet published
an autobiographical fragment Jiban-Smrti (‘Reminiscences’)
in Prabasi. In 1911-1912 he completed his famous plays
Achalayatana and Dak-Ghar and composed the sublime
national song Jana-gana-mana-adhindyaka symbolising
the spiritual unity underlying the diversity of Indian Culture.
He also wrote a highly thoughtful paper on the main cur-
rents of Indian History (Bharatvarger Itihdser Dhara.)
Between May 1912 and September 1913 the poet was on
his third foreign tour, during which he cultivated the
personal friendship of W. B. Yeats, Ernest Rhys, Henry
Nevinson, May Sinclair, Charles Trevelyan and William
Rothenstein. The India Society of London published the
first English translation, by the Poet himself, of his mature
lyrics, the Gitafjali. The Poet delivered a course of lectures
(Sadhana) at the Harvard University and read a paper on

Google
146 OBITUARY NOTICE

“Race conflict’’ at the Congress of Races, Rochester. He
also lectured at the Chicago University on the “Ideals of
Ancint Indian Civilization.” Thanks to this cultural mission
of Tagore, the whole of Europe and America came to
regard India with a new feeling of admiration and res-
pect. On the 13th of November 1913 the Nobel Prize for
literature came for the first time to the continent of Asia,
being awarded to the Bengali Poet who was hailed by the
then Viceroy, Lord Hardinge as ‘‘the Poet-Laureate of
Asia.” The University of Calcutta had already decided to
confer on him its D.Litt. (Honoris Causa), and on the 29th
of January, 1914 Lord Carmichael, the Governor of Bengal,
handed over to the Poet the Nobel Prize and the Medal ata
special reception. In June 1915, the King-Emperor conferred
on him a knighthood and the Poet composed in Bengali a
sonnet on Shakespeare for his Tercentenary Commemora-
tion Volume. In 1915, also appeared his brilliant social
novel Ghare-Baire (‘The Home and the World’), the lyrical
drama Phalguni (the Cycle of Spring) and his sublime collec-
tion of poems Balaka (‘The Swan’). In 1915 Mahatma
Gandhi visited Santiniketan twice and kept there for a while
the students and staff of the Phoenix School, started by him
in the Transvaal. Rev. C. F. Andrews and W. W. Pearson
also began to collaborate with the Poet in his educational
work.

His fourth foreign tour (May, 1916—March 1917) took
him via Burma and Malaya to Japan where at the University
of Tokyo he delivered his lectures on Nationalism, “‘expo-
sing the spirit of violence and imperialist greed inherent in
the Nation-State."’ Crossing over to the U. S. A. he addressed
the Yale University and the public of Boston and his lectures
were published later on as Personality. In 1918 the Poet
received Mr. ES. Montague, the then Secretary of State
for India and also Sir Mic | Sadler and the members of
the Calcutta University Com ion. He published then his
brilliant satire on Pseudo-education Totd-Kahini (‘The
Parrot’s Training’). The foundation-stone of Visva Bharati
was laid in Santiniketan (1918) after the death of his eldest

Google ca
OBIIUARY NOTICE zr

daughter (May). In 1919 he delivered an address before
the National University of Mrs. Annie Besant at Adyar as
its Chancellor. Following the Jallianwallah Bagh tragedy
(April 18, 1919) he renounced his knighthoood and started
the Department of Higher Studies, the Vidya Bhavan, of the
Visva-Bharati (July, 1919).

In the expectation of securing scholarly and financial
aids from abroad the Poet started on his fifth foreign tour
(May 1920—July 1921). He met Bernard Shaw, Robert
Bridges, ert Murray, Lowes, Dickinson, A. E., Bergson,
Sylvain Lévi etc. He lectured at the Universities and
learned societies of Brussels and Antwerp, of the Hague,
and Leyden, of Paris and Strassbourg, of Geneva and
Lucerne, of Basle and Zurich, of Darmstadt and Hamburg,
of Copenhagen and Stockholm, of Berlin and Munich, of
Fankfort, Vienna and Prague. He also crossed over to the
U. S. A. and lectured on “The Meeting of the East and
West.”

Returning to India in the reactionary period of Non-
co-operation, the Poet challenged the current popular senti-
ments by his lectures on the Meeting of Cultures (Sikear
milan). In November 1921 Prof. Sylvain Lévi arrived to help
organising researches in Chinese and Tibetan studies in
Santiniketan and on the 22nd December Sir Brajendranath
Seal formally inaugurated the Visva-Bharati. From now
on the Poet's school at Santiniketan began to function as
an International University in its real sense. It invited and
arranged special courses of some of the outstanding scholars,
writers and social workers from the East and the West;
Dr. M. Winternitz from the German University of Prague,
Prof. V. Lesny from the Czech University of Prague, Dr.
Sten Konow of the Ethnographic Museum of Oslo,
Prof. A. Bake of Holland, Dr. Germanus of Budapest,
Andrée Karpeles of Paris, Prof. G. Tucci from the University
of Naples and Rome, Dr. Harry Timbers from the Quaker
group of Philadelphia, Prof. Tucker from Califor
nia, Mon. F. Benoit from Switzerland, Mon. Bogdanov from
Russia, Miss Flaum from Jerusalem, Poet Yone Noguchi

9

Google
das OBITUARY NOTICE

from Japan, Ju Peon the celebrated Chinese artist from
Nanking, Mrs. and Miss Bruner the Hungarian artists,
and a host of ardent scholars and social workers, men
‘as well as women from different parts of the world,
enjoyed the hospitality of the Founder-President of
the Visva-Bharati and contributed to the widening of its
international outlook. If any cultural itute of India
merited full financial aid and special charity to function as
the International University of India, it would be Rabindra-
nath’s Visva-Bh In February 1922 the Institute of
Rural Reconstruction at Sriniketan was inaugurated with
the help of Mr. L. K. Elmhirst. The Poet presided over the
Shelley Centenary meeting in Calcutta (July 8, 1922).

In 1924 he was invited by Sir Ashutosh Mookerjee
to deliver a course of special lectures on Literature
at the University of Calcutta. Between March and July
1924, the Poet was on his sixth foreign tour visiting the
cultural centres of China and Japan accompanied by Kshiti-
mohan Sen, Nandalal Bose, and the writer who visited on
return journey Indo-China, Java, Bali and Malaya. His seventh
foreign tour (September 1924—February 1925), in course of
which he fell seriously ill, brought him for a short while to
South America, and in course of the voyage he composed
his poems of Paravi dedicated to the Poetess of Argentina
Victoria Ocampo. In 1925 Prof. Carlo Formichi accom-
panied by Dr. G. Tucci came to Santiniketan as a visiting
professor with a collection of Italian books. In December
1925, the Poet presided over the first Indian Philosophical
Congress at the University of Calcutta reading a paper
on the Bauls and the Folk philosophy of Bengal. In
February 1926 he lectured on the Philosophy of Art at the
University of Dacca and set out on
(May—December 1926) at the invi
Government. He lectured in the various intellectual centres
of Italy and passing through Switzerland met his old friend
Romain Rolland and also Sir James Frazer, Prof. Forel,
Duhemal and others. Through England he reached Norway
and Sweden meeting Nansen, Bjornson, and Bojer. He

Google
OBITUARY NOTICE 9

passed through Berlin, Dresden, Prague, Belgrade, Sofia,
Bukharest, Athens and Cairo.

Before his ninth foreign tour (July—October, 1927) to
Indonesia, the Greater India Society honoured ite Purodha
Dr. Tagore with a special reception at the Calcutta University
Institute where at the end of the meeting the Poet blessed
the Society. He started for Java and Bali accompanied by
two artists of Santiniketan Surendranath Kar and Dhirendra-
nath Dev Barman and by our learned colleague Dr. Suniti
Kumar Chatterjee who has recently published a most
valuable diary of the tour (Duipamaya Bharata). On the return
trip the Poet visited Siam. Coming back to India he atten-
ded (August 1928) the centenary of the Brahma Samaj,
held at the Senate Hall and read a paper on “The messi
of Rammohun Roy.” His tenth foreign tour (February,—
July 1929) brought him to Canada to’attend the Triennial
Conference at Vancouver. On his return journey he deli-
vered several lectures in Japan and broke journey in Indo-
China where he was warmly received by the people and the
French Government.

During his eleventh foreign tour (March 1930—January 1931)
he revisited France and held an exhibition of his paintings
in Paris, He met President Masaryk, Prof. Einstein and
other celebrities and delivered at the University of Oxford
his Hibbert lectures on ‘The Religion of Man.’ At the
invitation of the Soviet Republic he visited Moscow, studied
the cultural and economic activities of the U.S. S. R. and the
recorded his impressions in his famous Letters from Russia.
Crossing over to America he was received by President
Hoover in Washington and a public banquet was given in
his honour by the leading citizens of New York. Sinclair
Ley Will Durant, and other American writers came
personally to greet him. On his return, his seventieth Birthday
was celebrated all over India and in a big public meeting
at the Calcutta University Institute the Poet was felicitated
by Mm. Pandit Haraprasad Sastri, the President of the
Greater India Society. The Joint-Secretary ‘of the Society
had the honour of preparing the Golden Book of Tagore

Google
150 OBITUARY NOTICE

presented to the Poet at the Town Hall of Calcutta,
27th December, 1931. His twelfth and last foreign tour
brought the Poet to Persia at the invitation of his Majesty
Riza Shah Pehlvi who offered the Poet and his partya
really grand ‘‘Oriental’” hospitality. From Iran the Poet
visited Iraq where he was received by King Feisal. Returning
to India he was presented with a special address by the
University of Calcutta and he accepted its offer to deliver the
Kamala lectures. On the IIth of December 1932. the Poet
presided at the seventieth Birthday celebration of Sir P. C.
Ray, our revered President of the Greater India Society.

In 1933 the Poet presided at the inaugural meeting of
the Centenary of Raja Ram Mohun Roy, the ‘‘Father of
Modern India.” The Shah of Persia sent the Poet-scholar
Poure Davoud as a visiting professor to Visva-Bharati. The
Poet was entertained by the Vice-Chancellor of the Bombay
University and by the Persee community of Bombay who
donated a special lectureship at Santiniketan, on Zoroastrian
studies. He also delivered lectures at the Andhra and at the
Osmania Universiti In December he addressed the Ram
Mohun Centenary at the Senate House. In 1934, he was
invited to visit the histori es of Ceylon and delivered
many lectures there. On his way back he was received by
the Governor of Madras. In 1935, he delivered the Convoca-
tion Address at the Hindu University of Benares which
conferred on him the D. Litt. honoris causa. On the 27th of
December 1935 he sent a message of felicitations to the
President of the Indian National Congress on the occasion of
ite Golden Jubilee. In 1936 he was honoured by the people of
Behar ina special meeting at Patna, organized by Babu Rajen-
dra Prasad. In July of the same year the Dacca University
conferred on him the D. +» honoris causa and in Septem-
ber he sent a message to the World Peace Congress at
Brussels. On the IIth of October, he felicitated the great
Bengali novelist Sarat Chandra Chatterjee on his sixtieth
Birthday. In February 1937 he delivered the Convocation
Address of the Calcutta University, for the first time in
Bengali. He inaugurated the Chinese Hall (Cheena Bhavan)

Google
ORITUARY NOTICE 161

with an address on “China and India” and wrote a wonder-
fully lucid Introduction to Science (Viéva Paricaya) in
Bengali: He was taken seriously ill in September, but
he recovered and sent a message to the New Educa-
tion Fellowship Conference in Calcutta, in the following
December. The Poet presided at a sitting of the Parlii
ment of Religions in March 1937, celebrating the
Rama Krishna Centenary. In March 1938, the Osmania
University conferred the D.Litt, honoris causa on the
Poet who received, in course of the year, Mahatma
Gandhi in Calcutta and Lord Lothian at Santiniketan. In
1939, he invited Pandit Jawahirlal Nehru to open the Hindi
Bhavan at Santiniketan. The Poet laid the foundation
stone of the Maha-Jati Sadan at the request of Sj. Subhas
Chandra Bose, the then President of the Indian National
Congress. He visited Puri and the Premier of Orissa
organised a public reception on the occasion of the 78th
Birthday. The Poet greeted Pt. Jawahirlal Nehru on his
way to China and opened the Vidyasagar Memorial Hall
at Midnapore, December 1939. In February 1940, the
Poet received Mr. and Mrs. Gandhi in Santiniketan. The
Oxford University held a special convocation at Santiniketan
on the 7th August of the same year conferring on him the
D.Litt., honoris causa. A full account of this function has been
published in a previous issue of the Greater India Society's
Journal, In December 1940, H.E. Tai Chi Tao brought
the message of the Chinese Government and the greetings
of the Chinese people to the Poet. A final warning to the
war-ridden world was delivered by the Poet on his eightieth
Birthday through his magnificent address on Sabhyatar
Sarkat (‘The crisis in civilization’) and as if the tragedy of
the cruel war were too much for the Poet, we found his
vitality steadily to ebb away. Exactly one year after the
conferment of the Honorary Degree of the Oxford Univer-
sity, Rabindranath, the most sensitive and sonorous harp of
Humanity, collapsed on the 7th August, 1941, darkening
the horizon of India and the World.

Kalidas Nag

Google
Select Contents of Oriental Journals

Journal of the Mal in Branch of the Royal Asiatio
Sooiety, Vol. XIX, Part I (February, 1941).

An Introduction to the study of Ancient Times in the
Malay Peninsula. By Roland Braddell.

This is a continuation of the author’s paper contributed
to the same Journal (Vols. 13, 14, 15 & 17).

Begins with a critical account of the history of Fu-nan
from the fourth to the seventh century A.D. This is follow-
ed by a geographical excursus discussing seven toponyms
viz., Javadvipa of the.Ramayana, Jabadiou of Ptolemy, as
well as Ye-t Tchou-po, Tou-po, Ye-po-ti and Cho-po of
the Chinese writers. The author's conclusions (p. 68) are
that these seven toponyms probably refer to one and the
same place which is not Sumatra or Java or Malay
Peninsula, but most probably Borneo. Proceeding with his
theme, the author suggests (p. 72) that both a priori reason-
ing and surviving data lead us to infer a very early acquain-
tance with Borneo on the part of Indi and Chinese, and
the Indians must have been familiar with Borneo before
they became acquainted with Java, the navigation of which
is far more difficult and dangerous.

Kulanggi or Gulanggi. By Roland Braddell.

—Defends the author's equation of the above term with
Lower Burma against the criticism of Sir Richard Winstedt.

The Journey of Fa-Hsien from Ceylon to Canton. By A.
Grimes.—From the details given by the celebrated Chinese
pilgrim a modern meteorologist draws very interesting con-
clusions about the season and the route of the pilgrim’s
voyage. A map at the end illustrates the author's view of
Fa-Hsien's route which is very different from that suggested
by Giles, the translator of Fa-Hsien.

Tho Journal of the Thailand Research Society, Vol.
XXXII, Part I, March, 1941, ,

An appreciation of the Cahiers de I'Ecole Frangaise
d'Extréme Orient. By Major Erik Seidenfaden,

Google
SELECT CONTENTS OF ORIENTAL JOURNALS 188

—Gives a very useful summary, arranged according to
countries, of the contents of the Cahiers Nos. 1-22 published
by the French School of the Far East regarding the work of
research and temple-restoration carried out by itself during
1934 to 1940.

Bulletin de 1'Eoole Fraricaise d’Extréme Orient, tome
XXXIX, fase. 2, 1940.

Préh Khan de Kimpon Sody. By Henri Mauger.

—Gives for the first time a detailed survey, illustrated
with charts, plans and plates, of the group of monuments so-
called which should be carefully distinguished from the
temple of the same name near Angkor.

Une statue de (iva récemment découverte d Baékon
(Cambodge) With two illustrations. By G. Coedds.

—A curious group of statues recently discovered at
Bakoa is identified with Uma Gangapatiévara of the Bakon
Stéle Inscription noticed in the author’s Inscriptions du
Cambodge, t. 1.

Bulletin de I’ Ecole Francaise d’Extréme Orient, tome
XXXVIIL, 1938, Fasc. 2. Hanoi, 1940.

Essais sur l'art de I'Indus. By Victor Goloubew,
1 L’homme au chile de Mohenjo Daro.

Contains exhaustive criticism of the view of Rai Bahadur
Rama Prasad Chanda supported by Sir John Marshall,
namely that the famous limestone statue of Mohenjo Daro
was the prototype of a meditative yogi. In truth the statue
belongs, as much by its iconographic peculiarities as by its
choice of subject and diverse details of technical execution,
to the art of Western Asia. By referring to a series of
votive sculptures discovered in Chaldaea and Elam it is
possible to date it between 2350 and 2200B.C. It was
apparently the effigy of a priest. The geometrical trefoils
and the circles which adorn its dress have probably a sym-
bolic affinity with the cult of the starred sky apparently
introduced into India by immigrants of Sumero-Elamite
stock.

Google
154 SELECT CONTENTS OF ORIENTAL JOURNALS

En marge de Ramayana Cambodgien. By Francois
Martini. Points out that the Cambodian Ramayana now in
course of publication supports Coedés’ identification of a
particular bas-relief of Angkor-vat as representing the
Svayambara of Sita.

Bulletin of the School of Oriental and African Studies,
Vol. X, Part Ill, London 1940.”

Ramall. By H. W. Bailey. Refers to Rama story in
Khotanese. Contains translation with notes of relevant
extracts. .

Ttagutta by the same. Shows that the correct meaning
of the above is Tibetan.

U.N. G.

Catalogus der Bibliotheek: Koninktijk Bataviaasoh

Cenootschap van Kunsten en Wetensohappen, 1940.

It is a catalogue of books in the library of the Batavian
Society of Arts and Sciences. The books are classified
according to countries and periods.

Inscripties van Nederlandsch-Indié, aff. 1, 1940.

The book under notice contains four inscriptions edited
with text, translation, notes, etc. The inscription first edited
is that of King Balitung and dates from 905 A.D. It was
found at Randusari near Prambanan. It states that the
King issued a command to the village of Poh and the
dependencies at Rumasan and Nyi, all -under Kiniwang,
ordaining that they should constitute a freehold for the
tang hyang caitya, which is to be the silunglung of the King
entombed at Pastika. On the authority of a Singha:
cription Stutterheim thinks silunglung to be a building con-
nected with the worship of the dead.

The second inscription is that of Dang Acarya Munindra
from 885 A. D. and was found at Randusari near Pramba-
nan. It states that the Venerable Munindra purchased
from the village authorities of Parhyangan a sawah-feld in

Google
SELEOT CONTENTS OE ORIENTAL JOURNALS = 155

order to make it'a freehold for the maintenance of a temple
which is not further specified.

‘The third inscription is that of Kytarajasa and dates from
1296 A.D. It was found on the Penanggungan. It records
that Sang Apaiiji Patipati called Mpu Kapat and his family
possessed a freehold for religious purposes. It was called
Sukamyta. It had passed from the control of the clergy to
the temporal authority. It was again restored to the clergy
asa freehold. The resurrected freehold was to give rdja-
sekar and other taxes to the royal freehold at Pagér.

The last inscription is from Singhasari and is supposed
to date from the middle of the !4th century on account of
the appearance of the name of Gajah Mada as patih of
Janggala and Kédiri. It records a dispute between the
village authorities of Walandit and the dapurs of Himad
regarding the control of the dharmma Kabuyutan (interment
place of forefathers) together with its freehold Walandit.
As the autonomy of Walandit was proved by an edict of
Sindok, the Himad authorities did not press their point.
The other party, however, obtained the present record to
escape future trouble.

Rapporten, Oudheidkundigen Dienst in Netherlands-
oh—Indid, 1938,

Candi Sumberawan, as it is popularly called, is situated
about 6 kilometers to the North-East of Singhasari and
forms the subject-matter of this monograph. The name of
of the Candi is supposed to be derived from sumber (source)
and rawan (pond), which designation seems to be just in
as much as the Candi is surrounded by ponds on three sides.
Dr. Stutterheim conjectures that the original name of the
Candi was casurangganan which occurs in the Nagarakrta-
gama. The relics found in course of excavation of the
Candi do not betray its religious character. The reconstruc-
tion revealed it to bea stipa. Its plan answers to Hindu-
Javanese architecture from the Central and East-Javanese
periods. Mr. Van Romondt assigned it to the [4th-I5th
centuries. The epigraphist of the Archaeological Survey of

Google
166 © SELECT CONTENTS OF ORIENTAL JOURNALS

Netherlands. India places the stipa between the I Ith-and
the 15th centuries.

Djawa, XX, No. 6, 1940.—

Rapport inzake een te Batavia op te richten Faculteit der
Letteren. By Brugemans. Reports the establishment of a:
Faculty of Letters at Batavia, in which the scheme of the
study of Indian History and Culture occupies, as it ought to
do, an honourable place.

De Poera Madoewe Karang te Koeboetambahan, een
Noord-Balisch agrarisch heiligdom. By Grader—Describes a
North-Bali agrarian temple. Illustrative of the character of
the agrarian temple is the worship of batara Sri and batara
di Kamoelan together with the worship of the rice-goddess
and forefathers. The worship of some agrarian deities and
some gods of the Hindu pantheon is described in that
connexion.

Djawa, XXI, No. 1, 1941.

Een genezende heiland. By Ir. J. L. Moens—Describes
a six-armed Avalokiteévara-image with alloys of 8 metals
found at Menggung in Surakarta. Now at. Sriwedari
museum. It is argued that this image owes its origin to the
inspiration of the East-Indian Art of the Pala period.

H. B. Sarkar

Additions to the Library

The Greater India Society acknowledges with thanks the
receipt of the following periodicals and books during the
months.

Periodicals

1. Annals of the Bhandarkar Oriental Research Insti-
tute, Poona, Vol. XXI, Parts Ill, IV, 1939-40.

2. Annual Report on the Working of the Curzon Mu-
seum of Archaeology, Muttra, for the year ending
31st March 1941, Allahabad 1941.

Google
3..
4.

_

14,
5.
16.
7.
18,
19,
20.
21.
22.

23,
24,

ADDITIONS TO THE LIBRARY 167

Bulletin of the Deccan College Research Institute,
Vol. II Nos. 3-4, Poona, June 1941.

Bulletin of the School of Oriental and African
Studies, London Vol. X, Part Ill, 1940.

Carnegie Endowment for International Peace Pam-
phlet on New Year's Message, January 1, 1941. By
Nicholas Murray Butler.

Ceylon Journal of Science. Section G, Anthropology,
Vol. III, pt. 2 The Physical Anthropology of the
existing Veddas of Ceylon. Part I. By W. C. Osman
Hill.

Columbia University Bulletin of Information—Report
of the President for 1940.

Columbia University Address on the World Awaits
another Waterloo by Nicholas Murray Butler.

Djawa, 21" Jaargang No. 3, Mei 1941.

lu Heritage, May, 1941.

Indian Historical Quarterly, Vol. XVII, No. I, Cal-
cutta, March 1941.

Do. Vol. XVII, No, 2, Calcutta, June, 1941.
Journal of the Assam Research Society, Vol. Vill,
April 1941, No. 2.

Journal of Indian History, Vol. XX, Part I, April,
1941,

Journal of Malay Branch, Royal Asiatic Society,
Vol. XIX, Part I, February, 1941.

Journal of Thailand Research Society, Vol. XXXIll,
Part 1, March, 1941.

Journal of the United Provinces Historical Society,
Vol. XIII, Part 1, July, 1940.

Do Vol. XIII, Part I], December, 1940.
Nagari Pracharini Patrika, year 45, Kartick 1997 No3,

Do Do Magh, 1997, No. 4.

Do year 46, Baisakh, 1998, No. I-
Oudheidkundig Verslag, 1940. Oudheidkundige
Dienst in Nederlandsch-Indié, Batavia, 1941.

Suddha Dharma, Vol. V, No. 4, February II, 1941.

Do. Vol. VI, No. 1, May 21, 1941.

168 ADDITIONS TO THE LIBRARY

25. Tijdechrift voor Indische Taal-, Land- en Volken-
kunde, Deel LXXXI Afl. 3 Batavia 1941.

Books, pamphlets eto.

1, Aanpassing van Het Inlandsch Onderwijis op Bali
aan de eigen Sfeer. Door H. Te Fliethaar. Over-
druk mit Koloniale Studien, No. 2, 1941.

2. Architecture on the monasteries of Thailand. By
Luang Vichitr Vadakarn, Publications of the Depart-
ment of Fine Arts, 1940.

3, Early History of Ceylon. By G.C. Mendis, with a
foreword by Prof. Wilhelm Geiger. The Heritage
and Life of Ceylon Series, No. 1. Fourth edition
revised and enlarged. Y.M.C.A. Publishing House,
Calcutta 1940.

4. Javaanse Kaartepelen. Door Dr. Tjan Tjoe Siem.
Verhandelingen van het Koninklijk Bataviaasch
Genootschap van Kunsten en Wetenshappen. Deel
LXXV, Eerste Stuk, Bandoeng 1941.

5. Translation of the Kharosthi Documents from Chinese
Turkestan. By T. Burrow, Royal Asiatic Society,
London, 1940.

6. Verbs of movement and their variants in the critical

edition of the Adiparvan by E. D. Kulkarni, Poona
1941,

Printed and Published by Sj. J. C. Sarkhel, Manager, Calcutta Oriental
Press Led., 9, Panchanan Ghosh Lane, Calcutta.

Google
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
GRADUATE LIBRARY

DATE DUE

Original from

Digitized by Google UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
Digitzea by (SOO!

