Driginal from

Digitized by 0 UNIVERSITY OF MI

g» Google
Digitized by Google

UNIVE!

#4. 0%

THE

JOURNAL

- OF THE

GREATER INDIA SOCIETY ) -

= \
Vou. X1h } doy, fioas | P No. 2

EDITED BY

U. N. GHOSHAL

CONTENTS

Articles :
Indology in Russia (G. N. Roerich)
Mainamati and Lalmai Finds and the Kingdom

of Pattikera (T. N, Ramachandran) os oe
Linguistic Medium of the Savastivada School—

An Introduction (Anukul Chandra Banerjee) ... | ss 102
Reviews of Books: —... on Pa ¥y. ++ 106
Endowment of Chinese Cultural Scholarships by the
Government of China at the Calcutta University - WZ
Progress of Indological Scholarship in France : F 112
Learned Societies in France: ... os on oom)
Exhibition of Afghanistan antiquities at the Calcutta
University: .., = wo i ce WA
Editorial Notes: ... on : 116
Select Contents of Oriental Journals : oo we WB

Published by—
THE GREATER INDIA SOCIETY, CALCUTTA

Agents outside India—
Messrs. LUZAC & CO., 46, Great Russell Street, London. w. c. 1
e Annual Subscription Rs. 4-8 or 8s. 64., including postage

Google
a»

Mol
‘’ in Greater India Society (Established 1927)
ne 2, Aims and Objects
1. To organise the study of Indian Culture in Greater India (i.e.
Seri India Minor, Indo-China and Insulindia) as well as in China,

Korea, Japan and other countries of Asia.

2. To arrange for publication of the results of researches into the
history of India’s spiritual and cultural relations with the outside world.

3. To create an interest in the history of Greater India and
connected problems among the students in the schools, colleges, and
Universities of India by instituting a systematic study of those subjects
and to take proper steps to stimulate the same.

4. To popularise the knowledge of Greater India by organising
meetings, lantern lectures, exhibitions and conferences.

Membership Rules

1, The annual subscription payable by members is Rs. 12/- only.
Members are entitled to receive the publications of the Society at
concession rates and copies of the Journal of the Society free of cost.

2. Resident members may have access to the Society's collection
of books, pamphlets and periodicals etc. on application either to
the Honorary Secretary of the Society or the Librarian. Calcutta
University. The Society’s collection is housed, by arrangement with
the Calcutta University authorities, in the University Library.

Officers and Members of the Managing Committee,
Greater India Society, 1945

President—Dr. Shyamaprasad Mookerjee, M.A., D.Litt. Bar-at-Law.

Vice-Presidents—Rao Bahadur K.N. Dikshit, M.A.,O.C. Gangoly, Esq.,
Dr. R. E. Mortimer Wheeler, D.Litt.

Hony. Secretary—Dr. U. N. Ghoshal, M.A,, Ph.D.

Hony. Jt. Secretary—Dr. Kalidas Nag, M.A., D.Litt. (Paris.)

Other Members of the Committee—Dr. Narendra Nath Law, M.A.
Ph.D.; Prof. Suniti Kumar Chatterjee, M.A., D.Litt. (Lond,) ;
Dr. Prabodh Chandra Bagchi, M.A., D.Litt. (Paris); Dr.
Nalinaksha Dutt, M.A., Ph.D., D.Litt. (London.); Mm. Vidhu-
sekhara Bhattacharyya; Dr. Nihar Ranjan Ray, M.A., Ph.D.
D.Litt. (Leiden); Dr. Jitendranath Banerjea, M.A., Ph.D.
T. N. Ramachandran, Esq, M.A.; Dr. B.C. Law, M.A.,
Ph.D., D.Litt. .

JOURNAL OF THE GREATER INDIA SOCIETY
Published twice a year, in January and July. Annual Subscrip-

tion—Rs. 4-8 or 8s.-6d.—inclusive of postage. Volumes I-XI already
published. .

Google
JP Gots 2-235

THE

JOURNAL

OF THE

___ GREATER INDIA SOCIFTY

IMPORTANT NOTICE

fully reminded that their

Subseri'

‘3 are respe

subscriptions to the J. G.I. S. for vol. xii cease with this
number. They are therefore earnestly requested to
remit their subscriptions for vol. xiii at an early date to the

undersigned .

35, Badurba

un Row, \ Manager,

Calcutta Creater India Society

oun . wiaey readin ancient Kussia were the “Acts of St. Ihomas
in India”, an apocryphal version translated from the Greek. Well-
known was the “Legend of the Kingdom of India’’, which became
popular in Russia since the Xill-th century, and preserved its
popularity among the Russian peasant masses till the XIX-th century.
The ‘‘Legend”’ gives a description of the tropical nature of India, its
inhabitants, fabulous riches and an account of the country’s theocra-
tical ruler. To the same cycle of legends belongs the Legend about
the fabulous kingdom of Belovodye (lit. “White Water’), said to be
inhabited by Christians, which became popular among the Russian
Old Believers in the XVII-th century. Throughout the XVIIIth and
XIXth centuries bands of Old Believers went in search of it, visiting

. Google iN

Ms

Hol
7
wat Greater India Society (Established 1927)
we? Aims and Objects

1. To organise the study of Indian Culture in Greater India (i.c.
Serindia, India Minor, Indo-China and Insulindia) as well as in China,
Korea, Japan and other countries of Asia.

2. To arrange for publication of the results of researches into the
history of India’s spiritual and cultural relations with the outside world.

3. To create an interest in the history of Greater India and
connected problems among the students in the schools, colleges, and

‘mmnbiniemnitionnisubiubeionti*utinmmanstematicstidy of those subiects

Dr. Prabodh Chandra Bagchi, M.A., D.Litt. (Pa Dr.
Nalinaksha Dutt, M.A., Ph.D., D.Litt. (London.); Mm. Vidhu-
F; sekhara Bhattacharyya; Dr. Nihar Ranjan Ray, M.A., Ph.
D.Litt. (Leiden); Dr. Jitendranath Banerjea, M.A., Ph.D.;

T. N. Ramachandran, Esq., M.A.; Dr. B.C. Law, M.A.,
Ph.D., D.Litt. .

JOURNAL OF THE GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

Published twice a year, in January and July. Annual Subscrip-

tion—Re. 4-8 or 88.-6d.—inclusive of postage. Volumes I-Xl already
published. °

Google
JIGoN 9-235

THE

JOURNAL

OF THE

GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

Vou. XII duty, 1945 No.2

Indology in Russia

G. N. Rogricu

Early Indo-Russian cultural relations remain shrouded by an impe-
netrable veil, Our information is exceedingly scanty and for some of
the periods non-existent. Stray finds of Buddhist images in the
burials of the South Russian steppes attest the presence in the pre-
Mongol period of nomad tribes, probably of Central Asian Turkish
origin, professing Buddhism. We have little information about cultural
contacts prior to the XV-th century. India for a long time remained
a favourite theme of fables and tales, many of which belonged to the
so-called Alexander Cycle, and had penetrated into Russia through
Byzantium, Iran and the Arab World. Thus in the Russian Primary
Chronicle (XIth cent. A. D.) mention is made of the “rakhmans -pious
men” (PSRL, I, 6; V, 85). Under 1352 A. D. the Novgorod Chronicle
(PSRL, IV, 61) speaking about the ‘‘black death” (plague), adds that
nce came from the Indian countries, from the City of the
Sun’’. Widely read in ancient Russia were the ‘‘Acts of St. Thomas
in India”, an apocryphal version translated from the Greek. Well-
known was the “Legend of the Kingdom of India’, which became
popular in Russia since the XIlI-th century, and preserved its
popularity among the Russian peasant masses till the XIX-th century.
The “‘Legend"* gives a description of the tropical nature of India, its
inhabitants, fabulous riches and an account of the country’s theocra-
tical ruler. To the same cycle of legends belongs the Legend about
the fabulous kingdom of Belovodye (lit. “White Water”), said to be
inhabited by Christians, which became popular among the Russian
Old Believers in the XVIlI-th century. Throughout the XVIlIth and
XIXth centuries bands of Old Believers went in search of it,

Google
70 G. N. ROERICH

Eastern Turkestan, Mongolia, Tibet, and even India and Indo-China.*
To the XIlIth century belongs the Russian version of the “‘Story of
Alexander’s conquest in India’? (the so-called ‘‘Alexandriya’’).”
Mention should also be made of the “‘Story of Barlaam and Joasaph,
the Indians’, the famous Christian Life of Buddha. In the XV-th
century Russia obtained first-hand information about India and the
Indian peoples. In 1466 A.D. Athanasius Nikitin, a merchant from
Tver, joined the embassy sent by Ivan III to Shirwan. ikitin after
visiting Shirwan, continued his journey and sailed across the Caspian
to Mazandaran, from where he visited ayy, Kashan and Yazd.
While in Pe he heard about the profitable Indian trade, and
decided to visit India. He embarked at Ormuz; and sailed for India,
where he first disembarked at Diu and then at Chaul. After spending
some time at Bidar, Nikitin made a tour of the Bahmani dominions.
He returned to Russia through Persia and Trebizond, his journey
having lasted about six years (1466-1472). Nikitin died in Smolensk,
and though his journey was barren of results, his unfinished diary is
still a valuable source of information, and compares favourably, in the
opinion of Professor Minayev. with that of Nicolo Conti. In the XVI-th
century Russia’s knowledge of India was still scanty, and when in
1532 Khwaja Husain, an envoy of Sultan Babur, arrived in Moscow,
the authorities in the Russian capital hesitated to conclude a treaty,
and suggested a trade agreement. In 1676/7 Muhammad Yiisuf
Kasimov, a Russian Tartar, came to Kabul and intended going to
Delhi, but failed to obtain the necessary permit. In 1695, in the reign
of Peter the Great, a Russian merchant Semen Malinkov was deputed
to visit India. He travelled through Persia and in 1696 disembarked
at Surat. Malinkov visited Agra and Delhi, and was received by
Emperor Aurangzeb. On his return journey, he revisited Persia, but
died at Shirwan, without leaving behind any notes on his journey.
Inspite of the failure of these repeated attempts at establishing direct
trade relations with India, many in Russia must have possessed direct
information about India from Indian traders and artisans, who resided
in Russia in the XVII-th century. Inthe XVII-th century an Indian

1 “Bukhtarininskiye Staroobryadtsi", Academy of Sciences of the USSR.
Loningrad, 1930, pp. 36 ff. G@.T. Khokhlov, ‘‘Puteshestviye ural’skikh kaza-
kow v Belovodskoye tsarstvo", mp. Russian Geographical Society. St. Peters-
burg, 1903.

2 M.N.Speransky. ‘Indiya v staroy russkoy pis’mennosti”, “‘Symposiam
‘in honour of 8. F. Oldenburg”, Leningrad, 1934, pp. 465 ff.

8 P. Alfarich: ‘La Vie Chrétitnne du Buddha”, J. As. X, pp. 269-288,
Tes Ecritures Manichéennes, I, pp. 216 ff,

Google
INDOLOGY IN RUSSIA n

colony was established in Astrakhan on the Volga estuary, and Indian
traders sailed up the Volga to Yaroslav and Tver. A local Astrakhan
chronicle‘ says that the first traders from Armenia, Persia and India
came to Astrakhan about 1615/6 in the reign of the Tear Mikhail
Fedorovich. The same chronicle adds that in 1625 a caravanserai for
Indian traders was built in Astrakhan by order of the Russian voye-
voda Prince Semen Prozorovsky. The Indian colony consisted of
traders, artisans (metal workers and weavers) and occasional sidhus,
who must have come to Astrakhan from Baki, the city’s Fire Temple
being known to Indian sadhus as Bari Jvalamukhi, and which till
recently was a well-known place of pilgrimage.’ In the ‘“Memo-
tandum Book” of the Secret Chancery we read under 1665 about the
despatch to Astrakhan of a messenger with a letter addressed to the
voyevoda Prince Odoyevsky instructing him to send to Moscow
“Indian artisans”. In the same year Prince Odoyevsky was commis-
sioned to depute to India an Astrakhan trader to invite Indian weavers
to come to Moscow.* From legal documents preserved in the Astra-
khan Provincial Archives, and studied by Professor Pal‘mov, it
appears that some of the Indian traders could speak Russian, and
even read and write (Pal” mov, p. 172). The Astrakhan Archives
contain information on the arrival in Astrakhan of “Indian rel
men.” Many of the Indiai settled in the region, married and
became subjects of the Russian Tsar. George Foster, who pndertook
in 1782-4 an overland journey from Bengal to England, speaks in his
“Travels” (p.303) about a ‘‘small society of Hindoos” in Astrakhan :
“The Hindoos also enjoy at Astracan very fair indulgence ; nor could
they in the most celebrated places of worship in India, perform their
rites with more freedom. They are not stationary residents, nor do
they keep any of their females in this city; but after accumulating a
certain property they return to India, and are succeeded by other
adventurers. Being a mercantile sect of their nation, and occupied
in a desultory species of traffic, they have neglected to preserve any
record of their first settlement, and subsequent progress in thie quarter
of Russia; nor is the fact ascertained with any accuracy by the
natives of Astracan. In the karavansara allotted to them, which is

4 N,N. Pal'mov: “Astrakhanskiye Arkhivi", Zapiski Instituta Vosto-
kovedeniya, Il, 4. Leningrad, 1934, pp. 162-182,

5 According to Professor V. V. Barthold, The Encyclopaedia of Islam,
1, p. 609, fire-worship was introduced into Baki in the XVIII-th contury by
Indians and Indian Parseos. Tho other Jvalimukhi is situated in Kangra.

6 Pal'mov, ibid. p. 164 &. 7 Pal’mov, ibid, p. 180 ff,

Google
p G. N. ROERICH

commodious and detached, they make their ablutions and offer up
their prayers, without attracting even the curiosity of ‘the Christians ;
and they do not fail to gratefully contrast so temperate a cdnduct with
that of Persia, where their religion, persons and pros] are equal-
ly exposed to the attacks of bigotry and avarice.""*

In the middle of the eighteenth century the famous Ri
scientist Mikhail Lomonosov was instrumental in organizing the first
Polar expedition to Spitzbergen which had as its object the finding
of a sea passage to India.

The first Russian translation of Sanskrit text was the translation
of the Bhagavad-Gita published in 1787 by the eminent Ri
Rosicrucian and publisher N.1. Novikov. The Russian trai
did not represent a direct trai ion from the ori
a Russian rendering of the English translation by Ch. Wilkins
(London, 1785).

At the end of the eighteenth century a Russian mi jan Gerasim
Lebedev came to England on the staff of the Russian Embassy.
After a stay in England, ‘he embarked for India, and spent there
twelve years (1785-1797), working as a clerk at Fort William. His
réle in the renaissance of the Bengali theatre is well-known. He
founded a theatre in Calcutta which performed plays written by
Lebedev himself in Bengali, as well as plays by European drama-
tists which Lebedev translated. He applied himself to the study
of Sanskrit, and on his return to England. published in 1801 his
“Grammar of Pure and Mixed East Indian Dialects with Dialogues’’.
On his return to Russia, he cast the first Devanagari type in St.
Petersburg by command of the Emperor Alexander |. In 1805 he
published in Russian a survey of the religious and philosophical
systems of India, entitled “‘An impai survey of the systems of
Brahmanical East India” (‘‘Bespristrastnoye sozertsaniye sistem
vostochnoy Indii bramgenov’’).

The beginning of Sanskrit studies in R is closely linked with
the name of Count S. S. Uvarov. In 1810 this enlightened statesman,
while serving on the staff of the Russian Embassy in Paris, drafted
with the assistance of Klaproth a Memorandum on the founding of
an Asiatic Academy in St, Petersburg (‘‘Project d’une Academie
Asiatique”), the programme of which was to include the teaching
of Sanskrit. When later Count Uvarov became Minister of Public
Instruction and President of the Imperial Academy of Sciences, he
began to carry out his project. One of his first tasks was to establish

n

8 D.B. Diskalkar, “Hindus in Afghanistan, Persia and Russia in 173”,
Journal of the Greater India Society, vol. 1V, fase. 2 (July, 1987), p. 148 f.

Google
INDOLOGY IN RUSSIA B

a chair for the teaching of Sanskrit in St. Petersburg. Great diffi-
culties had to be overcome, for Sanskrit scholars were not to be
and young scholars had to be trained to enable
them to occupy the chair of Sanskrit. Count Uvarov selected
Robert Lenz (b. 1808-d. 1836), a student in the University of Yuryev.
Lenz was sent to Germany to study Sanskrit under the famous
Franz Bopp in Berlin. While in Berlin, Lenz pu’ lished in 1833 the
first critical edition of Kalic ’s Vikramorvasi—Urvasia fabula
Calidasi”, with a Latin translation of the text after the Calcutta
edition of 1830. This was followed in 1834 by “‘Apparatus criticus
ad Urvasiam’’, Berlin. After completing his studies in Berlin,
Lenz went to Oxford and London, where he met E. Burnouf. He
returned to Russia in 1835 and was appointed adjunct of the
Academy of Sciences, and Professor of Sanskrit and Compara-
tive Philology. He did not however succeed in establishing a
school of Russian Indologists, and died in 1836.

The work of Lenz was continued in Kazan and Moscow by
Professor Pavel Yakovlevich Petrov (d. 1876), the teacher of a
number of Russi philologists and linguists, and among them
Professor F. Korsch, F. F. Fortunatov and V. F. Miller. Pavel
Petrov after graduating from the Moscow University in 1832, conti-
nued his studies of Oriental languages. both in Moscow and St.
Petersburg, where he studied Sanskrit with Lenz. In 1836 Petrov
published a translation into Russian of the Sitaharana episode of
the Ramayana (Book III), with a glossary and a grammatical ana-
lysi This work was recommended by the academician Ch. D.
Fraehn (1732-1861) to Count S,S. Uvarov. Fraehn suggested that
the young scholar should be sent abroad to continue his Sanskrit
studies. Petrov was accordingly given a scholarship and sent to
Berlin to pursue his studies of Sanskrit with Fr. Bopp. The latter
suggested to Petrov to proceed to England, where facilities for the
study of Sanskrit were greater than in Berlin, and where he could
avail himself of the large collections of Sanskrit MSS in Oxford and
London. Petrov’s trip to England did not materialize, though he
was able to spend some time in Paris and examine the local collec-
tions of Indian MSS. In 1841 Petrov returned to Russia, and was
appointed to the chair of Sanskrit at the Kazan University, one of
the oldest seats of Oriental learning in Russia. Between 1852 and
1875 Professor Petrov occupied the chair of Sanskrit at the University
of Moscow, and greatly fostered the study of Sanskrit in Russi
His interests were many. Besides the ancient Indian epics, he was

interested in Sanskrit drama, proposed to translate Kalhana’s,
‘

Google
oc) G. N. ROERICH

Rajatarangini, and even study the spoken languages of India, as
well as Avestan.

In St. Petersburg the teaching of Sanskrit was continued by
Professor C. Kossowicz, the author of a well-known book on ancient
Persian inscriptions—“‘Inscriptiones Palaeo-Persicae Achaemenida-
rum’’, Petropoli, 1872. In 1846 he published in the periodical
*‘Sovremennik’’ (‘The Contemporary”) a translation into Russian
of the three acts of Krgnamiéra’s Prabodhacandrodaya, which was
followed by a translation of the whole drama published in 1847 in
the ‘Moskovskiy Sbornik”? (Moscow Symposium’’). In 1849 Pro-
fessor Kossowicz published in the periodical ‘“Moskvityanin” (The
Moscovite) his translation of the Mrcchakatika-

From the very beginning of Sanskrit studies in Ru: the study
of the classical language of ancient India was closely linked with
the study of Buddhism, specially ite later phase—the Mahayana.
All along the Asiatic borders of Ri the Russian Empire was
in daily contact with powerful and warlike Mongol tribes, pro-
fessing Buddhism, and the importance of the study of the Mongol
language and Tibetan was early recognized. Most of the Russian
Mongolists were attracted to the study of Buddhism, a tendency
which was strongly pronounced in the valuable scientific work done
by the Russian Orthodox Mi n in Peking, which was started
in 1716, and officially recognized by the Treaty of Kyakhta in 1728.
The first authentic information on Buddhism was obtained by the
Russian academician Pallas, who in his “Sammlungen historischer
Nachrichten ueber die Mongolischen Voelkerschaften’, Il. St.
Petersburg, 1801, gave an excellent account of Buddhist cosmogony,
mythology, iconography and hierarchy, as well as the contents of
several Buddhist texts in Mongol and a Biography of Buddha. A
short life of Buddha was given by the Russian traveller Timkovsky
(“Puteshestviye v Kitay, cherez Mongoliyu v 1820 i 1821 godakh”.
St. Petersburg, 1824, vol. Il, pp. 409-433).

The first half of the XiX-th century saw the appearance of a
number of eminent scholars in the fields of Indology and Buddhology,
and the allied fields of Sinology and Tibetology. Rev. Hyazinth
Bichurin, the Father of Russian Sinology, left a number of important
works on the history and geography of China, Tibet, Turkestan
and Mongolia. In this field he was a forerunner of Bushell, Ed.
Chavannes and W. W. Rockhill. Among his works on the history
and geography of Central Asia, we shall mention his valuable
toriya Tibeta i Khukhunora”’ (‘The History of Tibet and Kuku-
nir’’), 2 volumes, St. Petersburg, 1833, containing translations of

Google
INDOLOGY IN RUSSIA bid

the chapters of the Chinese Dynastic Annals relating to Tibet and
the Tangut (Hsi-Hsia) kingdom, and excerpte from the T’ung-chien
kang-mu; his “‘Istoriya o narodakh obitavshikh v Sredney Asii’””
(“History of Central Asian tribes’’), 3 volumes, St. Petersburg, 1851,
ing translations of the Chinese Dynastic Annals; his
“Opisaniye Tibeta’”’ (‘‘Description of Tibet’, St. Petersburg, 1828)
and the valuable ‘“Opisaniye Jungarii i Vostochnago Turkestana”
(“Description of Jungaria and East -Turkestan”. St. Petersburg,
1829). Towards the end of his life Bichurin’ began the study of
Mongol, and published two articles on Buddhism—‘‘The Exposition
of Buddhist Religion’? (Russkiy Vestnik, No. 3. St. Petersburg
+ 1841) and ‘“‘Buddhist Mythology’’ (Russkiy Vestnik, No. 7,
pp. 136-160).%

* In 1800 Isaac Jacob Schmidt (1779-1847) came to Sarepta from
Amsterdam to become a member of the local Mor:
He was placed in charge of the trading activities of
and in his capacity of trade agent made several trips to the camps
of Kalmuck princes in the steppe country of the lower Volga
(between 1804 and 1826). Having become a Russian subject
(Yakov Ivanovich Schmidt), he applied himself to the study of
Mongol and Tibetan. In 1829 he was elected Member of the
Imperial Russian Academy of Sciences. The Russian Academy
of Sciences was already in possession of a large collection of
Oriental MSS and books. To house this collection the Asiatic
Museum was founded in 1818."° The Tibetan collection of the
Academy of Sciences was considerably enriched by the acquisition
of the large collection of Tibetan MSS and xylographs made by
Baron P. L. Schilling von Canstadt in 1830 in Buryat-Mongolia.”?
This collection included a number of MSS indexes of the bKa’ ’gyur
and bsTan-'gyur, prepared* by Buryat lamas under the supervision
of Baron Schilling von Canstadt. In 1845 one of these indexes w:
edited by Schmidt (“Index des Kandjur’’. St. Petersburg, 1845).
Besides several important works in the Mongol field, Schmidt wrote
a number of essays on Buddhism. In the Mémoires de l’Académie
de St. Petersburg we find his ‘Ueber einige grundlehren des
Buddhismus”. In 1834 he published an article entitled “Ueber die

9 S.A. Kosin: “Ueber die unveroeffentlichen Arbeiten d. H. Bitschurin”’,
Monumenta Serica, 111 (1938), pp. 628-44.

10 Ch. D. Frachn, Vorlaeufiger Bericht, St. Petersburg, 1819.

11 A part of Schilling von Canstadt’s collection is preserved in tho
Library of the Institute in Paris, See J. Bacot, “La collection tibetaine
Schilling von Canstadt 4 1a bibliotheque de V Institut, J. As, 1924, pp. 321-349,

Google
Fd G.N. ROERICH

sogenannte dritte Welt der Buddhaisten”’, and “Ueber das Mahajana
und Pradschnaparamita der Bauddhen” (Mémoires de l'Académie,
vols. Ill and 1V. 1815-37), In 1846 he prepared in collaboration
with O. N. Boehtlingk (1815-1904) a Catalogue of Tibetan xylographs
in the collection of the Asiatic Museum of the Academy of Sciences.
Mention must also be made of Schmidt’s ‘‘Tibetan Grammar” (St.
Petersburg, 1839), and his “‘Tibetan-Russian Dictionary’ (St-
Petersburg, 1843), both of which were largely based on A. Csoma
de Ke'rs’ “Tibetan Grammar’ and ‘“‘Tibetan-English Dictionary’?**

The great Russian Mongolist Osip Mikhyalovich Kowalewsky
belongs to the same period. In 1824 he was sent to Kazan to study
Oriental languages, from where he proceeded in 1830 to Buryat-
Mongolia and Pel . where he continued his studies with Mongol
and Tibetan lamas residing in the Lamaist monasteries of the Chinese
capital. His great ‘Dictionnaire Mongol-russe-frangais” in three
volumes (Kazan, 1844-46-49),"° based on the polyglot dictionaries
printed in Peking, gives the Sanskrit and Tibetan equivalents of
many Mongol words and philosophical terms. His “Mongol Chresto-
mathy” in two volumes (Kazan, 1836-7) includes a number of
Buddhist texts accompanied by commentaries."* In 1833 on his
return to Russia, Kowalewsky was appointed to the chair of Mongol
at the University of Kazan. In 1855 the chair of Mongol was
transferred from Kazan to St. Petersburg, and was entrusted to
Professor Golstunsky- .

In 1844 the Asiatic Society of Bengal presented the Russian
Emperor with fourteen rare books in Arabic, Sanskrit and Tibetan,
which were later deposited in the Asiatic Museum.

A pupil of Kowalewsky was the great Russian Buddhologist
Vasiliy Pavlovich Vasilyev (1818-1900). In 1840 Vasilyev was sent to
the Russian Orthodox Mission in Peking for the study of Chinese and
Tibetan languages, and spent there ten years, till 1850. In Peking he
was able to study Tibetan and Tibetan exegetical literature with
Tibetan and Mongol famas, and lay the foundation of his extra-
ordinary wide knowledge of Buddhism and Tibetan Buddhist texts.
Although not a Sanskritist, his publications include a number of works
on Buddhological subjects. It is a matter of deep regret that the
greater part of his works in the field of Tibetology remains un-

12 A Grammar of the Tibetan Language. Calcutta, 184, Essay towards
4 Dictionary, Tibetan and English. Calcutta, 1834.
18 Kowalewsky’s Dictionary was reproduced by Henri Vetch, Peking,

in 1934,
14. Tho same is true of A. Popov's “Mongol Chrestomathy”, Kazan, 1834.

Google
INDOLOGY IN RUSSIA n

published, being preserved in the Archives of the Oriental Institute of
the Academy of Sciences,* and among thema “‘Tibetan-Russian
Dictionary” and a Tibetan Grammar. Vasilyev's great work on
Buddhism, which earned him world-wide fame, has been translated
into French and German (V. P. Vasilyev: ‘Buddizm; ego dogmati,
istoriya i literatura’, vols. I-III, St. Petersburg, 1857-69; “‘Der Buddhis-
mus; seine Dogmen, Geschichte und Literatur’. St. Petersburg, 1860.
A French translation by Comme, Paris, 1865). The third volume of
his ‘‘Buddhism’’ contai his Ri in translation of Taranatha’s
rGya-gar thos-’byun, or “History of the Buddhist Doctrine in India’.
Important for the study of Tibetan literature is Vasilyev’s ‘article
“Die auf den Buddhismus bezueglichen Werke der Universitaets-
Bibliothek zu Kagan” (Mélanges Asiatiques, Il, St. Petersburg, 1855,
pp. 347-386). In 1895 Vasilyev published the chapters on Tibet and
India from the large “Universal Geography” or ’jam-glin rgyas-béad
by the bTsan-po Nom-un gan bsTan-’dzin chos-kyi Ni-ma, also known
by the title of Minjul qutuztu: (Vasilyev; “‘Geografiya Tibeta”, St.
Petersburg, 1895).

Y. 1. Schmidt’s place in the Academy of Sciences was taken by
the Indologist and Tibetologist A. A. Schiefner (1817-1879), who
became a Member of the Academy in 1854. A. A. Schiefner pub-
lished a number of essays on Tibetan Grammar and Lexicography.
He also edited several Tibetan texts and Catalogues of the rapidly
growing Tibetan Collection of the Asiatic Museum of the Academy
of Sciences. Thus in 1859 he edited a vocabulary of Buddhist terms
in Sanskrit, Tibetan and Mongol (‘‘Buddhistiche Triglotte d.h,
Sanskrit-Tibetisch-Mongolisches Woerterverzeichniss”. St. Peters-
burg), brought back by Schilling von Canstadt, and representing an
abridged edition of the well-known Buddhist polyglot dictionary.
In 1868 he edited the Tibetan text of the rGya-gar chos’byun by
Taranatha (1575-1635), which was followed by a translation of the
chronicle ~in 1869 (‘‘Taranatha’s ‘‘Geschichte des Buddhismus in
Indien’’. St. Petersburg, 1869)."* Schiefner was interested in
Buddhist folklore literature, and his collection of Buddhist fables and

15 M. 1. Tabyansky, “Preliminary report on the MS legacy of V. P. Vasilyev
and V. V. Gorsky”, DAN, 1927, p. 64. 8.A. Kozin, “Bibliographical survey
of the published *and unpublished works of the Academician V. P. Vasilyev”,
IZAN, 1931, pp. 759-774, A. 1. Vostrikov, “S. F. Oldenburg and the study of
Tibet”, Zapiski Instituta Vostokovedeniya, IV (1985), p. 69.

16 Schiefner’s German translation follows closely on the Russian transla-
tion by Professor V. P, Vasilyev, which appeared in 1869.

2

Google
8 G. N. ROERICH

tales appeared in London (‘‘Tibetan Tales derived from Indian
Sources’’, London, 1906).

The growth of the St. Petersburg school of Indology is made
apparent by the compil nm of the monumental “‘St. Petersburg
Sanskrit Dictionary’ in seven volumes, published by the Academy
of Sciences between 1855 and 1875, and compiled by O. N. Boehtlingk
(1815-1904) and the great Vedic echolar Rudolf Roth. O. N. Boeht-
lingk also published an abridged edition of the same Dictionary
between 1879 and 1889, which was likewise published by the
Academy of Sciences (‘‘Sanskrit Voerterbuch in kuerzerer Fassung’’,
in seven parts. St. Petersburg, 1879-89. This Dictionary ‘was re-
printed by Messrs Markert and Petters, Leipzig, in 1923-25),

To the same period belongs the eminent Russian Sinologist, the
Archimandrite Palladius Kafarov, who headed the Ri in Orthodox.
Mission in Peking in 1849-59, and again in 1864, author of the
Chinese-Russian Dictionary in two volumes, invaluable for the study
of Chinese Buddhist texts. The Memoirs of the Russian Orthodox
ission contain two of his articles on Buddhism—‘‘Life of Buddha’”
(‘Zhizneopisaniye Buddi), Trudi clenov Ross. Dukhovnoy Missii,
1, Peking, 1909, pp. 222 ff. & “Istoricheskiy ocherk drevnego
Buddizma”’, Trudi, Il, pp. 57-99.

Professor C, Kossowicz was succeeded at the University of: St.
Petersburg by the great Russian In@ologist and Buddhist scholar
Professor Ivan Pavlovich Minayev (1840-1890).'7 Professor Minayev
began his Sanskrit studies with Professor Kossowicz, and at the
same time attended the Chinese classes given by Professor V. P.
Vasilyev, from whom he inherited a deep interest in Buddhism.
After graduating from the University of St. Petersburg, Minayev
spent six years abroad, studying under Fr. Bopp, Steinthal, Weber
and Benfey. He resided in Paris and London, and pursued his
studies at the Bibliothéque Nationale and the British Museum. On
his return to Russia, he was appointed to the chair of Sanskrit at
the University of St. Petersburg in 1869. In the same year he
published his Pratimokga-siitra, This was followed by his Pali
Grammar (‘‘Ocherk fonetiki i morfologii yaztka Pali”, St. Petersburg,
1872). This work was translated into English (‘Pali Grammar,
London. 1882) and French (‘‘Grammaire Pali”, Paris. 1874). In
1874/5 Professor Minayev made his first journey to India, and made

17 A short biographical sketch of Prof. Minayev by Miss A. Schneider
appeared in the Indian Hist. Quarterly, vol. X fasc. 4 (Dec. 1984). pp.
811-826.

Google
INDOLOGY IN RUSSIA 79

a prolonged stay in Ceylon, after which he visited Bihar, the
Nepalese borderland, and Almora in the Himalayas. His impressions
were vividly told in his “Sketches of Ceylon and India’’ in two
volumes, St. Petersburg, 1878. Besides pursuing his Buddhist studies,
Professor Minayev collected folktales and his collection of popular
tales was subsequently published in a volume entitled “Indian
Tales”, containing 47 tales and 25 legends collected in Kumaon
(St. Petersburg, 1875).

In 1880 Prefessor Minayev visited India for a second time. This
time he travelled through Hyderabad, where he visited the cave-
temples of Ajanta and Ellora, and then went on to Golkonda, Lahore
and Delhi. In 1886 he again revisited India, and this time he spent
some time in Darjeeling, and journeyed to Burma and Mandalay.
His planned fourth overland journey to India through Afghanistan did
not take place. The greater part of Professor Minayev’s published
works deals with Buddhism. In his ‘‘Buddhism. Izsledovaniya i
materyali (vol. I, fasc. | and 2. St. Petersburg, 1887), he questioned
the authenticity of the Pali Canon, and upheld the antiquity of the
Northern tradition (this work was translated into French and published
in the Annales du Musée Guimet: ‘Recherches sur le Bouddhisme’’.
Annales du Musée Guimet, Bibliotheque d'études, vol. IV. Paris,
1894). The second fasicule of the work contains Minayev’s edition of
the Mahdavyutpatti (a second edition of Minayev’s Mahavyutpatti was
prepared by Professor N. P. Mironov and published in the Bibliotheca
Buddhica, vol. XIII), and the Mafijusri-nadmasangiti. The Sanskrit
texts edited by Professor Minayev include the Sigyalekha-dharma-
kavya of Candragomin (Zapiski of the Oriental Section of the Imperial
Russian Archaeological Society, IV, 1889, pp. 29-52), the Suprabhata-
stotra, a hymn in praise of Buddha (Zapiski, Il, fasc. 3, pp. 236 f.)
and the Bodhicaryadvatara by Santideva (Zapiski, 1V, 1889, pp. 153-
228; a second edition appeared in 1890 edited by Professor S. F.
Oldenburg). Among the Pili texts edited by Professor Minayev, we
find: the Chakesadhatuvamsa (JPTS, 1885, pp. 5-46), the Gandha-
vamsa (JPTS, 1886, pp. 54-80), the Andgatavamsa (JPTS, 1886, pp.
33-53), the Simavivada-vinicchaya-katha (JPTS, 1887, pp. 17-34), the
Kathavatthuppakarana-atthakatha (JPTS. 1889, pp. 1-199). Through-
out his journeys in India and Ceylon, Professor Minayev had collected
an extensive collection of Indian MSS, a catalogue of which has been
compiled and edited by Professor N. P. Mironov in 1918. B
his interest in Buddhist India, Professor Minayev was deeply interest-
ed in the historical geography of the Indian borderland and Central
Asia. Thus in 1878 he published a monograph entitled ‘Description

Google
80 G. N. ROERICH

of the countries of the Upper Amu-darya”’. St, Petersburg, and in
1881 gave a commentary on the “Travel beyond the Three Seas” of
Athanasius Nikitin (“‘Old India”, St. Petersburg, 1881). Professor
Minayev also published an edition of Marco Polo accompanied by his
commentary (posthumously edited by Professor V. V. Barthold. St.
Petersburg, 1891). Throughout his scientific career Professor Minayev
stressed the importance of the study of contemporary India and of the
ig languages of India. Thus he collected materials for a Newari
Dictionary which were later edited by A. Conrady (‘A Sanskrit-
Newari Dictionary’, from the writings of the late I. P. Minayeff,
prepared for print by Aug. Conrady, ZDMG, vol. 47, pp. 539-573).
His views on the problem were defined in his well-known speech at
the Annual Convocation of the University of St. Petersburg in 1884
(“The study of India in Russian Universities’). Professor Minayev
died at the early age of 49, leaving many of his works unfinished.
His work and traditions were continued by a band of brilliant pupils.
In 1879 Alexey Putyata, a pupil of Professor Minayev, published a
translation of Kalidasa’s Sakuntala. In the second half of the XIX-th
century and the beginning of the present, Indology made rapid
progress in Russia, thanks to the labours of a number of brilliant
scholars, among whom we find Professor S. F. Oldenburg, Fedor I.
Stcherbatskoy (often written Stcherbatsky), Baron A.D. von Stael-
Holstein, N. D. Mironov, D. Kudryaveky, V. F. Miller, Fedor I.
Knauer and others.. In 1890 the study of Sanskrit was made obligatory
for students of the Slavic and Classical Departments of the historical
philological faculties of Russian Universities. To meet the growing
demand for text-books on Sanskrit, Professor V. F. Miller and F.1
Knauer published a Sanskrit Manual (‘‘Rukovodstvo k izucheniyu
Sanskrita’’, St. Petersburg, 1891), and Professor D. Kudryaveky a
Sanskrit Reader with Grammar (Yuryev, 1903).’*

To Professor Sergev Fedorovich Oldenburg (1863-1934) belongs
the merit of being not only an eminent Indologist, but also the
pirer and organizer of Oriental research in Russia. A pupil of
Professor Minayev, S. F. Oldenburg was like his teacher attracted to
Buddhism, and distinguished himself in the fields of Buddhist Art,
archaeology and folklore. After completing his studies at the
University of St. Petersburg, where he attended lectures by Professor

18 Other works by Prof. Kudryavsky: “‘Izsledovaniya v oblasti drevne-
indiyskikh domashnikh obryadov”. Yuryov, 1904 (‘Researches in the domai
of ancient Hiudu domestic rites’ “Hitopadesa-dobroye nastavleniye.
Sbornik drevne-Indyskikh razskazov". Yuryev, 1908.

Google
INDOLOGY IN RUSSIA 81

Minayey and V. P. Vasilyev, Oldenburg was sent abroad and spent
three years in Germany, France and England. His first. work was
devoted to the Indian folklore, in which he analysed the contents of
two Buddhist collections of edifying tales—the Bhadrakalpavadana
and the Jatakamala (“‘Buddiyskiye Legendi”. I. Bhadrakalpavadana,
Jatakamala, St., Petersburg, 1896). The problem of Indian folklore
was the subject of numerous articles published by him in the Zapiski
of the Oriental Section of the Russian Archaeological Society, and
other Russian periodicals. He was early attracted to the study of
Buddhist Art and identified some of the scenes on the famous Bharhut
stipa and many of the sculptures of Barabudur in Java (‘‘Notes on
Buddhist Art”, Zametki o budd. iskusstve. O nekotorikh skulpturnikh
i zhivopisnikh. izobrazheniyakh budd. Jatak. Vostochniye Zametki,
St. Petersburg. 1895). Professor Oldenburg was also interested in
the great Indian epic—the Mahabharata. His studies in this field
did not form the subject of a large work, except for a short article
on the Mahabharata in Buddhist literature (Zapiski, X (1897), p. 195
ff), which was later printed in the Revue de I’ Histoire des Religions.
One of his greatest achievements, which earned the Ru:
Academy of Sciences a well-deserved honour, was the founding in
1897 of the Bibliotheca Buddhica, a series devoted to the publication
of Buddhist texts and monographs on Buddhist subjects. The series
comprises thirty volumes (up-to 1937), and it is hoped that with the
end of the War its publication will be resumed by the Academy.
Perhaps his greatest contribution to Oriental learning was his
archeological exploration of Eastern Turkestan, and his participa-
tion in the organization of Russian scientific exploration of Central
Ar Russian explorers were the first to report the existence of
extensive ruined sites on the northern and southern fringes of the
Taklamakan desert. The great Russian explorer of Central Asia
N. M. Przhevalsky in the account of his Fourth Central Asian
Expedition (N. M. Przhevalsky: “Ot Kyakhti na istoki Zheltoy
Reki’’, St. Petersburg, 1888, pp. 353 ff., 356, 365 ff) described ruined
sites in the vicinity of Charchan-darya. Professor Minayev in his
review of Przhevalsky’s book (Journal of the Ministry of Public
Instruction, vol. 264, pp. 168-189) stressed the importance of archaeo-
logical exploration along the ancient caravan route from Khotan
to Lob-niir. The botanist.Regel, who visited Eastern Turkestan
in 1879, was the first to report on the existence of ruined. citi
in the Turfan oasis. In 1889-90 the brothers G. and N. Grum-
Grzhimaylo visited Turfan and gave a detailed account of the rui
of Idikut-shahri, mentioned the Buddhist cave temples of Sengim-

Google
82 G, N. ROERICH

aghiz and the ruined Buddhist temple near Lukchun (‘“Opisaniye
puteshestoiya v Zapadniy Kitay’’, vol. 1. St. Petersburg, 1896).
Further information on the ruined sites of Turfan was obtained
by Capt. V. I. Roborovsky and Lt. P.K. Kozlov during their ex-
edition of 1893-95, The explorers discovered the cave-temples
of Toyuk-mazar and the ruins of Yar-khoto (‘Trudi ekspeditsii Imp,
Russkago Geograficheskago Obshchestua,”” vol. |. St. Petersburg,
1899). Professor K. 1. Bogdanovich, a geologist attached to the
Tibetan Expedition of General M. V. Pevtsov in 1889-90, also
mentions ruined sites in the Tarim Basin (Trudi Tibetekoy Ekspeditsii,
vol. ‘Il, St. Petersburg, 1892, pp. 151-160). In 1898 the Russian
Academy of Sciences sent out an archaeological expedition headed
by Dr. Dmitri A. Klementz to Turfan. The expedition investigated
of Yar-khoto (W. of Turfan City), the ruins of some ancient
uated East of the modern town of Turfan, the ruined
sites of Idikut-shahri, Astana, Sengim-Aghiz, Murtuk, Toyuk-mazar.
Surkhab and the ruins of a Buddhist vihara south of Lukchun. The
scientific results of the expedition were published in a monograph
entitled “‘Turfan und seine Alterthuemer. Nachrichten ueber die
von der Kaiserlichen Akademie der Wissenschaften zu St. Petersburg
im Jahre 1898 ausgeruestete Expedition nach Turfan.” Fs
St. Petersburg, 1899. Professor Oldenburg from the very be;
of the archaeological exploration became deeply interested in the
antiquities and the MSS remains from Eastern Turkestan. In 1893
the Russian Academy of Sciences received from the Russian Consul-
General in Kashghar N. F. Petroveky a collection of MSS discovered
in the sand-buried ruins south of the Taklamakan desert. Pro-
fessor Oldenburg published a preliminary notice on a Prakrit MS of
the Dharmapada, belonging to the Petroveky Collection (‘’Predvari-
tel'naya zametka o buddiyskoy rukopisi, napisannoy pis'menami
kharosthi,” St. Petersburg, 1897). His large work on the subject,
though ready for print, has not been published. Collections of
antiquities and MSS from Eastern Turkestan have also been received
from Monsieur N. N. Krotkov, the Russian Consul-General in
Urumchi, the provincial capital. The general interest aroused by
the archaeological discoveries of Eastern Turkestan led to the for-
mation of an “‘Association Internationale pour l’Exploration de
VAsie Centrale et de l'Extréme Orient’, proposed at the XIl-th
International Congress of Orientalists held in Rome in 1899. The
Russian Section of the Association was established in 1903 under
the chairmanship of Professor V. V. Radlov, the eminent Turkolo-
gist. Professor Oldenburg, as Vice-chairman of the Section, contri-

Google
: INDOLOGY IN RUSSIA 83

buted greatly to its scientific activities and the despatch of scientific
missions to Central Asia and the Far East. In 1900 he published
a Notice on the organiz: of an archaeological expedition to
Eastern Turkestan (Zapiski of the Oriental Section of the Russian
Archaeological Society, vol. XIII (1900), p. ix ff). Oldenburg also
participated in the organization of the expeditions of P. K. Kozlov
to Eastern Tibet in 1900-1, and Southern Mongolia and Amdo in
1906-8, during which the eminent Russian explorer made his re-
markable discovery of the Tangut ruined city of Khara-khoto in
the Etsin-gol basin. The excavation of this ruined site yielded a large
collection of Tangut (Hsi-hsia) MSS, most of which contained
Buddhist texte, written in the Hsi-hsia script, adopted since 1037
A.D. This unique discovery proved the existence of a literary
Tangut language, akin to the dialects of the Tibetan North-East,
into which most of the Buddhist Canon had been translated between
the XIl-th and XIV-th centuries A.D. The large collection of Buddhist
paintings and drawings brought back by P. K. Kozlov from Khara-
khoto, were studied by Professor Oldenburg in a special monograph,
in which he stressed the importance of the finds for the history of
Tibetan Art (‘Matériaux pour l’iconographie bouddhique de Khara-
Rhoto”’, Memoirs of the Ethnographic Section of the Russian Museum
of the Emperor Alexander III, 11, Petrograd, 1914).

Professor Oldenburg was also instrumental in sending two Buryat-
Mongol schotars mGon-po skyabs Tsibikov and Badzar Baradiyn to
Central and North-Eastern Tibet (Amdo). Professor Tsibikov’s
expedition was organized by the Russian Geographical Society, and
lasted three years (1899-1902), during which Tsibikov visited Central
Tibet, and resided for some time in Lha-sa. The Preliminary Report
of his expedition appeared in the Journal of the Russian Geographical
Society (vol. XXXI, fasc. 3 (1903), pp. 187-227; an English’ translation
of the above appeared in the Smithsonian Report for 1903, pp.
727-746. Washington, 1904). The Detailed Report of Professor

- Tsibikov’s journey was published ina large volume by the Ru
Geographical Society in 1919 (‘“Buddist Palomnik u svyatin’ Tibeta’’.
Petrograd, 1919), arid contains by far the best description of the
temples and monastic establishments of Lha-sa, Tashi-lhun-po and
bSant- Badzar Baradiyn’s journey in 1905-7 on behalf of the
Russian Section of the International Association for the study of
Central and Eastern Asia, covered Mongolia and North-East Tibet
(Amdo), where he spent some time in the large monastery of bLa-
bran bKra-gis ‘khyil (founded in 1710). Professor Oldenburg gave a
Preliminary Report on the journey in the Bulletin of the Russian

Google
84 G. N. ROERICH .

Section of the Association for the study of Central and Eastern Asia
(No. 8, 1908, pp. 17-21). Baradiyn’s Report was published in the
Journal of the Russian Geographical Society (vol. XLIV, fasc. 4, 1908,
pp. 183-232. See also Badzar Bai n: “'Statuya Maitreyi v Zolotom
khrame v Lavrane’’, Bibl. Buddhica, vol. XXI, 1924).

In 1906-07 Professor Oldenburg participated in the organization of
the archaeological expedition of N.M. and M. M. Berezovsky, who
excavated and photographed a number of ruined sites in the district
of Kucha.

In 1909-10 Professor Oldenburg headed a Russian Archaeological
Expedition to Eastern Turkestan, during which he investigated the
ruined sites in the neighbourhood of Shikchin in the Karashahr
district, the Turfan oasis (Yar-khoto, Old Turfan, Idikut-shahri,
Astana, Sengim-aghiz, Bezel Chikan-ko”l, Toyuk-mazar, and
Sirkip), and Kucha (Subashi, Simsim, Kizil-kargha, Kumtura and other
localities). Oldenburg himself called this expedition—an “‘archaeo-
logical reconnaissance”. Before leaving for Eastern Turkestan.
Professor Oldenburg consulted Professor Gruenwedel, and determined
with him the areas in which the Russian expedition was to work in
order not to interfere with the work of the German expedition.
However when Professor Oldenburg’s expedition arrived in the field,
the Russian scholars discovered that the sites allotted to the Russian
expedition had been already excavated by the German expedition
under von Le Coq."* The results of the Russian expedition were
published in a large volume entitled ‘‘Russkaya Turkestanskaya
Ekspeditsiya 1909-1910 goda’’ (St. Petersburg, 1914). In 1913-14
Professor Oldenburg led a second archaeological expedition to Eastern
Turkestan. The task of thie second expedition was to explore and
make a complete photographic survey of the famous cave-temples of
Tun-huang in Western Kansu. The results of this éxpedition are
deposited in the Hermitage Museum in Leningrad, but the Scientific
Report has not been published.”

Professor Oldenburg also participated in the building of the Buddhist
Temple in St. Petersburg, w! was solemnly consecrated in 1913.
This temple, built in Tibetan style, was began in 1910. The building
was supervised by a Committee consisting of Professor V. V- Radlov,

19 F, I, Stcherbatsky, “8. FP. Oldenburg kak indianist’’, Zapiski Instituta
Vostokovedeniya, IV (1935), p. 26, This* volume dedicated to the memory of
Professor Oldenburg contains several articles by Professor A. N. Samoylovich,
I, Y. Krachkovsky, V. N. Alekseev and A. I. Vostrikov.

20 §.F. Oldenburg, “The caves of the Thousand Buddhas” (in Russian),
“ Vostok’, I (1922), pp. 57-66,

Google
INDOLOGY IN RUSSIA 85

chairman, mkhan-po cha-ma Nag-dban-Do-rJe, Professor V. L.
Kotwicz, Professor S. F. Oldenburg, Professor N. C. Roerich,
Professor A. D. Rudnev, Professor F. I. Stcherbatsky, Miss Alexander
Schneider and the architect Baranovsky. At the suggestion of
Professor Stcherbatsky the Committee proposed to purchase in India
a complete Indian temple and’ to rebuild it in St. Petersburg, but the
first World-War put an end to these plans.

In 1916 Professor Oldenburg was appointed Director of the Asiatic
Museum of the Russian Academy of Sciences. In 1930, after the
transfer of the Museum’s collections to the newly created Oriental
Institute of the new institution, and until hie death in 1934 he acted as
planner and. organizer of Oriental Research in Soviet Russia. His
manifold official duties prevented him from publishing some of his
larger works. Most of his articles written between 1917 and 1934
represent reports on the organization of scientific explorations and
Oriental research in general, a work with which he had selflessly
identified himself. To this period belongs his article on the Gandhara
sculptures in the Hermitage Museum which appeared in the Zapiski
of the College of Orientalists, vol. V (1930), ‘pp. 145-186.

The death of Professor Fedor Ippolitovich Stcherbatsky (b. 1866)
during the fateful winter of 1941 of the Leningrad seige, was a cruel
loss to science. After graduating from the University of St. Peters-
burg, where he studied Sanskrit and Pali with Professor Minayev and
Oldenburg, Germanic under Professor F. A. Braun and Slavonic under
Jagié, Stcherbatsky proceeded to Vienna in 1888, and studied Sanskrit
Poetics (alamkara) with Buehler. These studies resulted in two
monographs, one in German—‘‘Ueber das Haihayendracarita’’, and
one in Russian on the Indian Theory of Poetry—‘‘Teoriya poeziiv
Indii”’ (St. Petersburg, 1899). In 1902, after attending the International
Congress of Orientalists in Rome, Stcherbatsky went to Bonn, and
read Indian Philosophy with Jacobi. From that date his interest
centres on Indian Philosophy, and particularly on Buddhism. In 1903
Stcherbatsky published his first important work on Buddhist Logic and
Epistemology—‘Theory of Knowlege and Logic inthe Doctrine of
later Buddhists’” (*‘Teoriya poznaniya i logika po ucheniyu pozdney-
shikh buddistov’’, Part I, St. Petersburg, 1903; Part Il, St. Petersburg,
1909). This fundamental work which contained a Russian translation
of Dharmakitti’s Nyayabindu and ite Commentary by Dharmottara, as
wells an exposition of the stand of Buddhist Logic, appeared also
in German (“Erkenntnistheorie und Logik nach der Lehre der spaeteren
Buddhisten’’, Munich, 1924) and in French in the Annales du Musee
Guimet (‘La Theorie de la Connaissance et la Logique ches les

3

Google
86 G. N. ROERICH

Bouddhistes Tardifs’’, Paris, 1926). In 1910-11 Professor Stcherbateky
made 2 long sojourn in India, studying Sanskrit with Indian pandits in
Poona, as well ‘ing Calcutta and Darjeeling, where he met the
thirteenth Dalai Lama, then in exile. In 1918 Professor Stcherbatsky
was elected Member of the Russian Academy of Sciences. His next
important work was his monograph “The Central Conception of
Buddhism and the meaning of the word DHARMA” (Royal Asiatic
Society Prize Publication Fund, vol. VII. London, 1923), in which he
expounded the Hina: ic stage of Buddhism. This was followed
by his “The Conception of Buddhist Nirvana’ (Leningrad, 1927),
invaluable for the study of Buddhist Monism, represented by the
Madhyamika school. In 1935 appeared his monumental “‘Buddhist
Logic” in two volumes (Bibliotheca Buddhica, vol. XXV1. Leningrad,
1930, 1932), which represents an English version of his earlier work on
the subject, completely rewritten and greatly enlarged. This work
will for a long time remain the foundation of further studies in this
difficult, but essential branch of Buddhist philosophic literature.
Besides these works, Professor Stcherbatsky published and edited a
considerable number of Tibetan and Sanskrit texts in the Bibliotheca
Buddhica, some in collaboration with foreign scholars and his own
pupils. The Bibliotheca Buddhica includes his edition of the Sanskrit
text and Tibetan translation of Dharmakirti’s Nydyabindu with the
Commentary by Dharmottara (Bibl. Buddhica, vols, VII and VIII), the
Sanskrit text of the Nydyabindufikatippani, a commentary on
Dharmottara’s Nydyabindutika (Bibl. Buddhica, vol. XI, fasc. 1), the
Tibetan text of Dharmakirti’s Samtanantarasiddhi with Vinitadeva’s
Commentary, and a commentary by the well-known Mongol scholar
Nag-dban beTan-dar Lha-rams-pa of Alashan (b. 1758) (Bibl. Buddhica,
vol. XIX, fase. I-ll). Dharmakirti’e Samtanéantarasiddhi and Vinita-
deva’s Commentary were translated by Professor Stcherbateky into
Russian, and published in the series ““Pamyatniki Indiyskoy Filosofii”’
(‘Monuments of Indian Philosophy’’), edited by the Russian Academy
of Sciences (“Obosnovaniye chuzhoy odushevlennosti”’, St. Peters-
burg, 1922).

Professor Stcherbatsky also collaborated in the large international
undertaking concerned with the editing of Vasubandhu’s Abhidharma-
koga. The edition of the Abhidharma-kosa was to be undertaken by
a group of scholars who met in Paris in the winter of 1912. The
edition of the Tibetan text of the Abhidharma-kosa, the karikas and
the bhagya, was tobe undertaken by Professor Stcherbateky and
Professor L. de la Vallée Poussin (the frst kosasthana and the greater
part of the second of the karikds and bhasya have been edited by

Go gle
INDOLOGY IN RUSSIA &

Professor Stcherbateky in the Bibl. Buddhica, vol. XX, fasc. I-Hl).
An edition of Yaéomitra’s vyakhyd was to be prepared by Professor
S. Lévi (the first kogasthdna was published by Professor Stcherbateky
and Léviin the Bibl. Buddhica, vol. XXI, fasc. 1; fasc. I ed. by
Professor. U. Wogihara and Professor Stcherbatsky in 1931). An
edition of the Uighur version of the Kosa, discovered by Sir Aurel
Stein, was planned by Sir E. Denison Ross. The Japanese scholar
Professor U. Wogihara was to give an edition of the Chinese transla-
tions of Paramartha and Hedan-teang. Since then a French translation
of the Abhidharma-koéa was published by Professor L. dela Vallée
Poussin (Paris, 1923-31, six volumes), and a systematic exposition of
the philosophy of the Koga by Professor O. O. Rosenberg (“Problemi
Buddiyskoy Filosofii’”, Petrograd, 1918). Russian and English
translations of the text of the Abhidharma-koga by Professor Stcher-
bateky and Rosenberg were also foreshadowed.

In 1929 Professor Stcherbatsky published in collaboration with his
pupil E. E. Obermiller the Sanskrit and Tibetan texts of the Abhisama-
yalamkara-Prajfidparamita-updega-Sastra (Bibl. Buddhica, XXIl),
and thus inaugurated the systematic study of the vast Prajfia-
paramitd literature undertaken by the Buddhist Institute of the
Academy of Sciences, a work continued for some time by E. E.
Obermiller. “

Professor Stcherbateky’s last work, which likewise appeared in the
Bibliotheca Buddhica (vol. XXX, 1936), was a translation of Asenga’s
Madhyanta-vibhanga-sastra, a work belonging to the third and Jast
stage of Buddhist philosophic thought.

Mention must also be made of several articles by Professor
Stcherbatsky, such as his “(Contribution 4 I’histoire du materialisme
aux Indes” (‘‘Vost. Zapiski”, vol. I, Leningrad, 1927, pp. 1-9).
“Ueber die Nydyakanika des Vacaspatimiéra und die indische Lehre
vom kategorischen Imperativ” (Beitraege zur Literaturwissenschaft
und Geistesgeschichte Indiens’’, Festgabe Hermann Jacobi, Bonn.
1926, pp. 369-380), ‘‘The ‘Dharmas’ of the Buddhists and the ‘Gunas’
of the Samkhyas’’ (The Indian Historical Quarterly, vol. X,
fasc. 4 (1934, pp. 737-760), and ‘‘The Doctrine of the Buddha”
(BSOS. vol. VI, 4, pp. 867-896). Professor Stcherbatsky also
published a translation of the Dasakumdracarita by Dandin in the
Journal ‘*Vostok”’ (Petersburg, 1923).

Professor Stcherbatsky was deeply interested in the remarkable
discove of Sanskrit MSS in Tibetan Monasteries by Rahula
Sankrtydyana in 1934 and 1936," and hoped to arrange the publica-

21 R, Sinkrtyéyana, “Sanskrit Palm-Leaj MSS in Tibet”, JBORS, XXI, 1,

Google
88 G. N. ROERICH

tion of the discovered MSS in the Bibliotheca Buddhica. Let us hope
that this work will be carried out, now that Rahula Sankrtyayana
has been invited to join the staff of the Oriental Institute of the
Academy of Sciences. Before his death in the winter of 1941,
Professor Stcherbatsky was planning a translation of Dharmakirti’s
Pramanavartika.

In 1928 the Academy of Sciences inaugurated a Budddist Institute
and Professor Stcherbatsky was appointed to direct the scientific
work of the new institution, ted by E.E. Obermiller. In 1930
the Buddhist Institute was affiliated with the Oriental Institute of
the Academy of Sciences.

Till his death in 1941 Professor Stcherbatsky continued to occupy
the Sanskrit chair at the University of Leningrad.

In the person of Baron A.A. von Stael-Holstein, who died in
Peking in 1937, Russian Indology lost another of its distinguished
scholars. Born in 1871 at Testama, near Pernau in Esthonia, he
studied Sanskrit and Indian literature at the Universities of Yuryev
(1894-6) and Berlin. His doctoral thesis was devoted to the second
part of the Karmapradipa. After a brief period of study at Oxford
and Bonn, he entered the Russian Foreign Service, and was
appointed secretary of the Imperial Russian Consulate-General in
Bombay (1903-4). He related his researches in India in a paper
entitled ‘‘Puteviya vpechatleniya iz Indi” contributed to the Journal
of the Russian Geographical Society (vol. 40 (1905), pp. 557-83).
After hie return to Russia, he was appointed Assistant Professor
of Sanskrit in the University of St. Petersburg, and participated in
the work of the Russian Section of the International Association for
Exploration of Central and Eastern Asia. He journeyed to Central
Asia, and like many of his colleagues devoted much of his time to
the study of Buddhism and Central Asian problems. Thue he
published several articles dealing with the Tokharian problem
(“Tocharisch und die Sprache II’* Izv. Imp. Akademii Nauk, 1908,
pp- 1367-72; “‘Tocharisch und die Sparche I’* lzv., Imp. Ak. Nauk,
1909, pp, 479-84; ‘*Was there a Kusana race?”, JRAS, 1914,
pp. 79-88; ‘‘Kopano und Yuehshih”, SPAW, XXI (1914), pp, 643-
650), in which he advanced the opinion that the name Tokharian
should be applied to the so-called ‘Language II” of the Central
Asian MSS, which had been spoken and written in the region
of Khotan in Eastern Turkestan. Now a Tibetologist and a Chinese

pp. 21-43; “Second Search of Sanskrit Palm-Leaf MSS in Tibet’, JBORS,
XXIII, 1 (1937), pp. 1-67.

Google
INDOLOGY IN RUSSIA 89

scholar as well, he dedicated himeelf to the publication and recon-
struction of Sanskrit texts with the help of extant Tibetan and Chinese
translations of Indian originals. In 1913 he published a reconstruction
of the Sanskrit text of the Gandistotragatha of Aévaghoga with the
help of the Chinese and Tibetan versions (Bibl. Buddhica, vol. XV,
1913). In 1916 he was sent on a scientific mission on behalf of the
Russian Academy of Sciences to Japan. In 1917 he settled in Peking,
and in 1922 was appointed Professor of Sanskrit at the National
University of Peking. During his residence in China, Baron von
Stael-Holstein was able to complete his edition of the Sanskrit MSS
of the Kaéyapaparivarta, a Mahayana siitra of the Ratnakita cla
discovered in the vicinity of Khotan ('‘The Kagyapaparivarta, edited in
the original Sanskrit, in Tibetan and in Chinese”, Shanghai, 1926). In
1913 this was followed by an edition of Sthiramati’s Commentary on
the KaSyapaparivarta in Tibetan and Chinese (‘A Commentary to the
KaSyapaparivarta’’Peking, 1933).?? In 1927 he was appointed Director
of the newly formed “Harvard Institute of Sino-Indian Research, a
posi which he held till his untimely death in 1937. The first
volume of the Series published by the Institute (‘Harvard Sino-Indian
Series’) contains Professor Fr. Weller’s “Index to the Tibetan
translation of the KaSyapaparivarta’ (Harvard-Yenching Institute,
Cambridge, Mass. 1933). In 1929 Baron von Stael-Holstein was
appointed Professor of Central Asian Philology at Harvard University.
While in Peking, Baron von Stael-Holstein was assisted by the
Russian Mongolist Professor B. I. Pankratov.

In connection with Russian researches in the field of Northern
Buddhism, mention must be made of the work of the R in Mon-
golists Professor A. M. Pozdneev and Professor B. Y. Viadimirtsov.
Professor Pozdneev (1851-1920) was the author of a well-known work
on the Buddhist Monasteries and Clergy in Mongolia (“Ocherki bita
buddhiyskikh monastirey i buddiyskago dukhovenstva.”’ St. Peters-
burg, 1887),2* which still remains the only exhaustive work on the
subject. In 1880 he published a monograph on the Grand Lamas
of Urga (“Urginskiye Khutukht?”, St. Petersburg). Mongol Buddhist
texts are included in his ‘Mongol Reader” (St. Petersburg, 1900),
and his “Kalmuck Reader” (Petrograd, 1915). Professor Pozdneev
also published in 1897 the Account of a journey to Tibet undertaken

22 For a fuller bibliography, see Monumenta Serica, vol. LII (1938),
fase. I, pp, 286-289.

23 A chapter from Pozdneev's work on the Buddhist Monasteries in
Mongolia, was translated into German by W. A. Unkrig “Dhyana und Samadhi
im mongolischen Lamaismus”” (Hannover, 1926).

Google
» G. N. ROERICH

by Baza Bazti, a monk of the Dundu-khurul of the Baza Do’’rbo
principality of the Astrakhan Kalmucks, in 1891-94 (“Skazani,
okhozhdenii v Tibetskuyu stranu Malo-Do”rbo” tskago Baza-bakshi
St. Petersburg, 1897). Professor Pozdneev also edited the Mong
text of the “Journey to Tibet” by the Buryat lama blo-bzai Mi-ek yo
which was to be published by the Academy of Sciences. Im 1892-
Professor Pozdneev undertook an extensive journey throughout Oute
and Inner Mongolia, and hie “Diaries” published by the Russia:
Geographical Society under the title of “Mongolia and the Mongols’
(“Mongoliya i Mongol’, vol. 1, 1896 ; vol. Il, 1898) contain muc?
valuable information on Buddhist monasteries and monuments ir
Mongolia and the Sino-Mongolian borderland.

The great Russian Mongolist Professor B. Y. Viadimirteov (1884-
1931), historian and_philolo devoted many of his works to
Buddhism. He was particularly interested in Buddhist folklore and
literature. In 1921 he published the Mongol text and a Russian tran-
slation with an exhaustive commentary of a number of tales from the
Paficatantra ("‘Mongol' skiy Sbornik rasskazov iz Paficatantra’’, Petro-
grad). This was followed in 1923 by slation of the Siddhi-kiir, a
Mongol version of the Vetdlapaficaviméatika (‘‘Volshebniy Mert-
vets", St. Petersburg-Moscow, 1923). Professor Vladimirteov edited
in 1929 the Mongol text of the Bodhicaryavatara of Séntideva,
translated into Mongol by Kun-mkhyen ¢hos-kyi ’od-zer (Bibl.
Buddhica, vol. XXVIII). To Tibetan Buddhism were devoted
his articles ‘Buddhism v Tibete i Mongolii’* (St. Petersburg, 1919),
“Mila-ras-pa’s Lyric poetry” (“Iz liriki Milaraibi’. “‘Vostok’’.
U, pp. 45-47), ‘A magic tale” (“Rasskaz 0 volshebstve’’. “Vostok”.
Il, pp. 55-57). the “Tibetan-Mongol Dictionary Li gurkhan
(Comptes rendus de l’Académie des Sciences, Leningrad, 1926, pp-
27-30), and “The Mongol bstan-’gyur” (ibid, pp. 31-34). Important
for the study of the Indo-European languages discovered in Eastern
Turkestan is his article ‘“Mongolica |" (Zapiski of the College of
Orientalists, 1, pp. 305-341), which studies Central Asian loan-words
in Mongolian. Professor Vladimirtsov's work at the Universite of
Leningrad is continued by Professor S. A. Kozin, who has to his
credit a number of extremely valuable works on Mongol folklore
and epic literature (“Geseriada”, Moscow-Leningrad, 1935 ;
“Jangar’’, Moscow-Leningrad. 1940).

A number of Buddhist texts in Mongolian have been published
in Urga (now Ulan Bator Khoto) in Mongolia by the Mongol Scienti-
fic Committee. Among the books on Buddhist subjects printed in
Urga mention can be made of the Burqan tigemuni-yin Sedig onusibai

Google
INDOLOGY IN RUSSIA ~ or

1aDy; (a translation into Mongol of L. N. Toletoy’s “Life of Buddha” by
("Ste the well-known scholar Ts. Jamtsarano), and the ‘Foundations of
‘obey Buddhism” in Russian (Ulan-Bator Khoto, 1926).
theMa Buddhist texts in the Uighur language, discovered in considerable
Misy Bumbers in Turfin, have been studied by Professor V. V. Radlov, the
hhigeminent Turkologist (1837-1918), In 1910 he published an Uighur
vout(¢ Version of the well-known story of Buddha’s meeting with the mer-
¢ Rug Chants Trapuga and Bhallika (Tifastuustik, Bibl. Buddhica, vol. XII),
Yong the XXV-th chapter of the Chinese version of the Saddharmapunda-
tina Tika (Kuan-Si-im Pu-sar, Bibl. Buddhica, Vol. XIV, 1911), and in
aeoni Collaboration with Professor S. E. Malov the Uighur version of the
* Suvarnaprabhasa (Bibl. Buddhica, XVII). Radlov’s translation of the
(i Uighur text was published with an intreduction by Professor Malov
tks? (Bibl. Buddhica, XXVII), who in 1910 was sent on a scientific mission
re Eastern Turkestan and Kansu by the Ru: Section of the Asso-
ate ciation for the Exploration of Central and Eastern Asia. Fragments
mb of Buddhist texts in Uighur, brought back from Turfan by Roborov-
sky, Klementz, Krotkov and Oldenburg, have been edited by Radlov
in a volume entitled “Uigurische Sprachdenkmaeler” (Leningrad,
fee 1921); this edition was completed after the author’s death by Profe-
OF Maloy, who also’ published Uighur MSS brought back by the
| expedition of Professor Oldenburg (‘‘Uigurskiye rukopisniye dokumenti
y_ ekspeditsii S. F. Oldenburga’”’, Zapiski Instituta Vostokovedeniya, |
7 (1932), pp. 129-151), A general exposition of Buddhism, ite doctrine
; and history was given by 1. A. Podgorbunsky who drew his informa-
tion mainly from Buryat and Mongol sources (“Buddizm”, Irkutsk,
. 1902). A number of studies on Buddhism who published by members
i of the Russian Orthodox clergy, some of them polemical in charac-
j ter Suffice it to mention Archibishop Nilus’ “‘Buddizm” (St. Peters-
burg. 1858), Methodius’ ‘‘The Buddhist Creed or Lamaism’’ (Buddiy-
skoye mirovozreniye ili lamaizm’’, St. Petersburg, 1902), and Archi-
mandrite Guriy’s monograph on Mahayana Buddhism, based on
information collected by the author in the Kalmuck steppe, and
translated by W. A. Unkrig into German (‘‘Der Buddhismus des
Mahayana”, “‘Anthropos’, vols, XVII-XVIII-XIX, 1922-24). A
monograph on Indian asceticism was given by V. Kozhevnikov
(“Indisskiy Asketizm v do-buddiyskiy period’, Bogoslovskiy Vestnik.
Sergiyev Posad, 1914).

Since the end of the last century the Russian general public has
evinced considerable interest towards Indian philosophy, art and
literature. The poet Baltrué gave a beautiful rendering into
Russian of the Bhagavad-G' The names of Sri Ramakrgna and

Google
” G. N. ROERICH

i Vivekdnanda became familiar to many. A good Rus:
translation of the English version of the “Gospel of Ramakrena”
(“Pravozvestiye Ramakrishni”. St. Petersburg, 1914) appeared in
1914, and Russian translations of Svami Vivekénand lectures
were numerous. Vereshchagin and Nicholas Roerich dedicated many
of their canvases to Indian subjects. Russian poets also felt the spell
of Indian literature. Already the poet Zhukovsky (1783-1852) gave a
Russian translation of the rightly famous poem of Nala and Damayanti
(“Nal’ i Damayanti’”’).* The Russian symbolist poet Constantine
Balmont translated into Russian Aévaghoga’s Buddhacarita (“‘Zhizn’
Buddi’’. Mos 1913, with a preface by Professor S. Lévi), and the
dramas of with the assistance of Professor Oldenburg
(Kalidasa. Drami. Moscow, 1916), with an introduction by
Professor Oldenburg on Kalidasa and his work. The volume contains
translations of the Sakuntala, Malavikagnimitra, Vikramorvasi and the
elegiac poem Meghadita). In 1914 Professor Pavel Ritter translated
Kalidasa’s Meghadita (‘‘Oblakovestnik”’, drevne-indiyskaya elegiya
Kalidasi, Kharkov, 1914), and in 1928 gave a translation of Dandin’s
Dagakumaracarita (‘‘Pokhozhdeniya desyati yunoshey”, Kharkov,
1928; also-by the same author “‘Dandin and his Dafakumaracarita’”
(in Russian). Kharkov, 1898). Russian translations of the works of
Rabindranath Tagore are numerous, and some of them of a very high
order, as for example Tagore’s Gitdiijali, beautifully translated into
Russian by the poet Baltrutai

After Minayev, Russian scientific missions to India were few. The
Russian archaeologist Victor Goloubev (now Member of the Ecole
Frangaise de l’Extreme-Orient) completed in 1906-7 a photographic
survey of the Ajanta frescoes. The photographic record is deposited
at the Musée Guimet in Pai In 1914-1918 a Russian Ethnographic
Expedition directed by A.M. Merwarth and L. A. Merwarth, and
organized by the Russian Academy of Sciences, worked in India and
Ceylon. Professor Merwarth made a special study of the South
Indian languages, and published in 1929 a Grammar of colloquial

Tamil (Leningrad, 1929).?*

24 Mahabharata III, 62-79. Zhukoveky's Russian translation was made
from a German rendering of the poem.

25 V.Goloubev: ““Peintures bouddhiques aux Indes", Annales du Musée
Guimet, Bibliotheque de vulgarisation, vol. XL (1913); “Ajantd, les pein-
tures de la premitre grotte”, Ars Asiatica, X. Paris, 1931.

26 See also A. M. Morwarth: “Le sujet de Sakuntald dans le drame
Malabarien populaire”, Vost. Zapiski, 1, pp. 117-181. L. A. Merwarth,
“Obryadoviye ubori Kashmirskikh brakhmanov", Sbornik Muzeya Antro-
pologii i Etnografii, vol. VI. Leningrad. 1927, pp. 165-200.

Google
INDOLOGY IN RUSSIA 3

Speaking of recent times two names deserve our attention:
Professor O. O, Rosenberg and Dr. E. E. Obermiller. The lives of
both of them were cut short by fatal illness, but their contribution to
science was great. Professor Rosenberg (1888-1919) studied Sanskrit
and Chinese at the University of St. Petersburg. He also read Sanskrit
with Professor Jacobi in Bonn, and Japanese with Professor Lange
in . After graduating in 1910, he decided to specialize in
Philosophy, the study of which he had begun under Professor
Stcherbatsky at the University of St.’ Petersburg. In 1912 he wi
sent on a scientific mission to Japan to study Japanese Buddhist
tradition, with special reference to Vaeubandhu’s Abhidharma-kosa-
The results of a four years’. stay in Japan were considerable. He
published a Vocabulary of Buddhist terms under the title of “A
Survey of Buddhist Terms and Names arranged according to radicals
with Japanese readings and Sanskrit equivalents, supplemented by
addition of terms and names, relating to Shinto and Japanese History,
“Tokio, 1916. Rosenberg suggested an alphabetical arrangement of
Chinese characters, and published in 1916 a dictionary entitled
“Arrangement of Chinese characters according to an alphabetical
system with a Japanese Dictionary of eight thousand characters and
list of twenty-two thousand characters.” Tokio, Kobunsha. In 1916
Rosenberg returned to Russia, and two years later presented to the
University of St. Petersburg his Doctoral the: ‘Problems of Buddhist
Philosophy”, which was published by the University under the title
of ‘Problemi buddiyskoy filosofii” (Petrograd, 1918), and represents
a first-rate contribution to our knowledge of Buddhist philosophy,
with special reference to the dharma-theory, overlooked by’so many
modern students of Buddhism. A German translation of Rosenberg’s
work appeared in the ‘‘Materialien zur Kunde des Buddhismus”
edited by Professor M. Walleser (‘‘Die Probleme der Buddhistischen
Philosophie’’, Heidelberg, 1924). In the same Series appeared his
‘essay on modern Buddhism in the Far East—Die Weltanschauung des
modernen Buddhismus im fernen Osten’’(Heft 6, Heidelberg, 1924),
representing the German translation of his Russian lecture “O
mirosozertsanii sovremennogo Buddhizma na Dal’nem Vostoke’’
(Petersburg, 1919", read at the First Buddhist Exhibition held in St.
Petersburg in 1919. Appointed Professor at the University of St.
Petersburg, Rosenberg died the same year, leaving many of his works
unfinished.

Dr. E. E. Obermiller (1901-1935), a pupil of Professor Stcherbateky,
during the eight years of his scientific life produced a number of
remarkable works, thanks to his extraordinary command of Sanskrit

4

Google
4 . G. N. ROERICH

and Tibetan. Dr. Obermiller undertook several journeys to Buryat-
Mongolia, and was able to benefit by the advice and assistance of
Buryat-Mongol learned monks, who introduced him to the intricate
field of Tibetan exegetical literature, and the method of philosophical
disputation adopted in the monastic colleges of Tibet and Mongolia.
This collaboration of Russian scholars with Mongol scholars is a
characteristic feature of Russian researches in the domain of Northern
Buddhism. Obermiller’s first work was the compilation of two
extremely useful Indexes to Dharmakirti’s Nyayabindu and
Dharmottara’s Nyayabindufika (Sanskrit-Tibetan Index, Bibl. Buddh.
vol. XXIV; Tibetan-Sanskrit Index, Bibl. Buddhica, XXV). He
collaborated with Professor Stcherbatsky in editing the Tibetan texts
of the Abhisamayalamkara in the Bibliotheca Buddhica (vol. XXIII,
1929). In 1931-2 he published in the ‘‘Materialien zur Kunde des
Buddhismus”, a translation of the ‘‘History of the Buddhist Doctrine”’
(bDe-bar géegs-pa’i bstan-pa’i gsal-byed Shos-kyi ’byuh-gnas gsuf-rab
rin-po-the’i mdzod-es-bya-ba, vol. XXIV (Ya) of the Collection of
Works of gSun-’bum) by Bu-ston Rin-then-grub (1290-1364), one of
the best known works of Tibetan hi ography (“‘Bu-ston’s History
of Buddhism’, Part |. Heidelberg, 1931; Part Il, Heidelberg, 1932)*7.
In 1931 he gave a tri tion into English of the Uttaratantra of
Maitreya-Asanga (‘‘The Sublime Science of the Great Vehicle of
Salvation, being a Manual of Buddhist Monism. The work of Arya
Maitreya with a Commentary by Arydsanga”; Translated from the
Tibetan by E. E. Obermiller, Acta Orientalia, vol. IX, 1931, pp. 81-
306). The other works of Dr. Obermiller were chiefly concerned
with the Prajfidparamita literature. He gave a general exposition of
the Doctrine of the Prajfidparamitd according to the Abhisamaya-
lamkara in Acta Orientalia, vol. IX (1932-3). This was followed
by a detailed analysis of the eight principal subjects and the seventy
topics of the Abhisamayalarnkara published in the Calcutta Oriental
Series (“‘Analysis of the Abhisamaydlamkara” fasc. 1. Calcutta
Oriental Series, No. 27, 1933; fasc. Il. Calcutta Oriental Series,
No. 27, 1936; fasc. Ill. Calcutta Oriental Series, No. 27, 1943).
In 1937 appeared his edition of the Sanskr id Tibetan texts of the
Prajfiaparamitaratnagunasarncayagatha, published posthumously in
the Bibliotheca Buddhica (vol. XXIX. 1937). Many of Dr. Ober-
miller’s articles appeared in the Indian Historical Quarterly of
Calcutta: “The Account of Buddha’s Nirvana and the first councils

27 See Obermiller: “Bu-ston’s History of Buddhism and the Mafijuéri-

milatentra", JRAS, 1985, containing corrections of reconstructed Sanskrit
names in the translation of the “History of Buddhiem",

Google
INDOLOGY IN RUSSIA s

according to the Vinayakgudraka’” (Indian Historical Quarterly, vol.
V, 3); “A Study of the Twenty Aspects of Sanyata” (IHQ. vol. IX,
1933); “Nirvana according to the Tibetan tradition” (IHQ. 1934), and
“On the meaning of the term Sanyata” (Journal of the Greater India
Society, July, 1934).?®

Looking at the modern period one notices a considerable swing of
interest from the traditional fields of Sanskrit and Buddhism towards
Sanskrit belles-letters, modern Indian languages and literature.
However the old tradition did not exhaust itself, and there are signs
that it will again reassert itself. Among the scholars of this period
one name stands foremnst—Professor A. A. Barannikov (b. 1890),
elected to the Academy of Sciences in 1939. In the early days of his
scientific career Professor Barannikov did not escape the Russian
traditional interest in Buddhism, and at least two of his early articles
deal with Buddhism and Buddhist Art (‘Zabaykal’skiye datsani™
(Buddhist Monasteri Buryat-Mongolia), Materyali po Etnografii,
vol. Ill, fasc. 1. Leningrad, 1926, pp. 123-31; “Statuetka dokshita iz
Sobraniya Khara-khoto” (‘An image of a drag-géed from the
Khara-khoto Collection”). Materyali po Etnografii, vol. Ill, 2, pp.
113-4, In recent years Professor Barannikov has given us several
manuals of Hindustant: ‘A Grammar of Hindustani’? (Leningrad,
1926). “Modern Hindustani Prose” (Leningrad, 1927), ‘Modern
Hindustani Prose’? (Leningrad, 1930), and ‘‘A Manual of Hindustani”
In 1937 Professor Barannikov published an excellent translation of
Lalla jt Lal’s Prem Sagar with an exhaustive introduction on the
author, the modern Indian languages and the evolution of Hindt
(‘Legendi 0 Krishne”, vol. XXV. Leningrad-Moscow, 1937).
nnikov has also completed a translation into Ri
Ramayana, which is in the process of publication.
Among the articles by Professor Barannikov we may mention the
“Synonymic repetition in Hindustani’ (in Russian, Vost. Zapiski, 1.
Leningrad, 1927, pp. 71-91), “On the dialect of the Gypsies of
Belgorod’’ (Comptes rendus de l’Académie des Sciences de 'USSR.
1929, pp. 121-128), “‘Saptasaroj Prem Chanda” in the ‘Symposium in
Honour of Professor S. F. Oldenburg” (Leningrad, 1934, pp. 73-83),
“Problems of Hindi prose” (In Russian, Zapiski of the Oriental
Institute, vol. VII, 1939, pp. 203-54), etc. Among Professor Baranni-
kov's pupils we must mention Professor V. Beskrovniy, one of the
leading authorities on modern Indian languages in the USSR.

28 For
E, E, Obermi

fuller list see Professor Stcherbateky’s Obituary Notice of Dr.
r in the THQ. vol. XI, 2 (June, 1936), pp. 880-2,

Google
6 G. N. ROERICH

Among the works of this period one must mention Boris Larin’
ion of some Rg-Veda hymns, which appeared in the perio:
Vostok” (Leningrad, 1922), a translation into Russian of
Kaliddsa’s greatest kdvya the Raghuvamsa, by Professor Igor
Serebryakov. Prof. R. I. Shor’s study of the different recensions
of the Vetalapaficaviméatika (in “Symposium in honour of S. F.
+ Leningrad, 1934, pp. 611-25), and his article on the
(in the “Symposium in honour of Professor N. Y.
Marr’, Leningrad, 1935, pp. 433-51). The great Russian Arabist
Professor I. Y. Krachkovsky wrote on the cultural influence of
India on Arabic culture in the Vill-th century (‘‘Un fragment
de rhétorique indoue en réproduction arabe’, Vost. Zapiski, |.
pp. 26-37),

As stated above, the collections of MSS and books belonging to
the Asiatic Museum were transferred in 1930 to the newly created
Oriental Institute (Institut Vostokovedeniya) of the Academy of
Sciences, and all Oriental research became centralized under the
guidance of this new institution. The unique collections of MSS
and Oriental books belonging to the Institute have been saved from
destruction during the siege of Leningrad by a band of heroic and
self-denying men and women. One of the major undertakings of
this Institute is the translation into Russian of the whole Maha-
bharata undertaken by Professor V. I. Kalyanov, the publication
of which will be eagerly anticipated.

The tradition of Professor Stcherbatsky is being maintained
by Professor M. I. Tubyansky (b. 1893) and Professor Andrey 1.
Vostrikov. Professor Tubyansky’s interests lie in the field of Indian
philosophy and Bengali, In 1922 he published a volume on Bengali
literature (‘‘Obraztsi_ bengal’skoy iteraturi”. Petrograd, 1922).
edition of the Sanskrit text of the Nydyapravesa with the
Chinese, Mongol and Tibetan versions was to be published in the
Bibliotheca Buddhica. He was also preparing for publi i
the same series en edition of the Chinese version of Dignag:
Nydyadvara, and a translation of the important Grub-mtha’ chen-mo
by ’Jam-dbyans biad-pa (1648-1722).

Professor A. I. Vostrikov has been Professor Stcherbatsky’s chief
assistant in recent years. His interest lies chiefly in the field of
Buddhist Logic. He has undertaken several journeys to the Buddhist
monasteries of Buryat-Mongolia, and collected on behalf of the
Oriental Institute Tibetan and Mongol xylographs. In 1935 he contri-
buted an important article on the Nyayavartika of Uddyotakara, and
the Vadanydya of Dharmakirti to the Indian Historical Quarterly

Google
INDOLOGY IN RUSSIA ”

(vol. XI, 1, 1935, pp. 1-31). Important for Tibetan bibliography are
his ‘Corrections and critical remarks on Dr. Johan van Manen's
contribution to the Bibliography of Tibet.” in the Bulletin of the
School of Oriental Studies (vol. VIII, part 1 (1935), pp. 51-77).
Professor Vostrikov collaborated with Professor N. N. Poppe in
editing Buryat-Mongol chronicles (‘Letopis’ Barguzinskikh Buryat™’,
Trad Instituta Vostokovedeniya, VIII. Leningrad, 1935). Translations
of Vacaspatimigra’s Nydyavartikatatparyatika and his Tattvabindu
were scheduled to appear in the Bibliotheca Buddhica, as well as
the Tibetan text of the Pramanavartika of Dharmaktrti.

For a long time the only books on Indian History in Russian were
Z. A. Ragozin’s “‘History of India” (St. Petersburg, 1905), concerned
mainly with the Vedic period, and Dr. E. S. Schmidt’s “History of
India” in the well-known ‘History of Mankind” of H. Helmolt (vol.
Il. St. Petersburg, 1909, pp. 341-505). Professor Krimaky’s ‘‘History
of Persia and her literature” (Moscow, 1914-7, pp. 159-226) contains
a chapter on the history of Ancient India and ust some
length the Persian literature of the Mogul period. Since the discovery
of the Indus culture the inclusion of Ancient In in. textbooks on the
History of the Ancient East has become imperative. In 1941 Professor
V. V. Struve (b. 1889) published a “‘History of the Ancient East’
(Leningrad-Moscow, 483 pp.), which includes Ancient India and
China." It is a matter for great gratification that the Oriental
Institute of the Academy of Sciences has undertaken the pul tion
of a “History of India’, for the absence of a scientific work on this
subject is a big gap in Russian historiography.

Political conditions have adversely affected the archaeological
exploration of Central Asia since the first World War. Much impor-
tant work has been done in the excavation and preservation of
monuments belonging to the Muslim period in the Central Asian
republics of Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan and Tajikistan. Numerous
sites belonging to the Buddhist period still await the spade of the
explorer in the old Bactrian kingdom, Buddhist Sogdiana. In 1922 M.
G. Vecheslov made a tour of Afghanistan and prepared a survey of
Buddhiet sites (“‘Arkheologicheskiye pamyatniki o Afganistane”’,
** Afganistan’’, Moscow, 1924). The exploration of Buddhist sites in
Tajikistan has been inaugurated by an archaeological expedition Jed
by Professor B. Denike in 1927, sent out by the Museum of Eastern
Cultures in Moscow, during which A. S. Strelkov discovered a
Buddhist stépa and fragments of Greco-buddhist sculptures in

29 Prof. V. F. Mivorsky: “Oriental Studies in the U.6.8.1t.", p. 82.

Google
8 G. N. ROERICH

limestone in the neighbourhood of Termez (B. Denike, ‘‘Termez’’.
in “‘Noviy Vostok’, No. 22 (1928), pp. 208 f; A. S. Strelkov,
“Buddhist monuments in Termez”’ in ‘‘Kul'tura Vostoka’”’ (‘‘Oriental
Culture”), Museum of Eastern Cultures, Moscow, 1928).

The cultural links between the countries of the Amu-darya basin
and the north-western borderland of India have long ago interested
Russian scholars, Sarmatian and Indo-Scythian antiquities were
studied by Professor M. 1. Rostovtsev—a subject which merits further
attention on the part of the historian of India's North-West (‘‘Receuil
d'études dediées d la mémoire de N. P. Kondakov, Prague, 1926, pp-
239-57). Another important work scheduled to appear shortly is
Professor K. Trever’s study of the Kushan period.

The recent excavations by Professor Sergey P. Tolstov of ancient
sites in Khwarazm have furnished us with a wealth of new data,
which point to close cultural relations between Khwarazm and the
North-Western borderland of India during the Kushan period (S. P.
Tolstov's article in ‘‘Vestnik dreoney istorii”, IV (1938), pp. 120-45).
Professor Tolstov’s large work on Ancient Khwarazm was scheduled
to appear in 1945. The excavation work will be resumed in the
spring of 1946.

We have attempted to give a brief survey of the work done by
Russian scholars in the field of Indology. We have seen that much
of this work had been devoted to the study of Northern Buddhism,
and that in recent years a sound foundation had been laid for the
study of modern India, her languages and literatures. Geographical
Proximity and historical ties made Russian scholars devote particular
attention to the study and exploration of Central Asia (Turkestan,
Mongolia, Tibet), a region which throughout the first millenium A. D.
had been a cultural province of a Greater Indian cultural whole, and
many parts of which still preserve a priceless heritage of Indian culture
and thought.

Google
Mainamati and Lalmai Finds and the Kingdom
of Pattikera.

T. N. RaMAcHANDRAN

In August-September 1943 the find of brick structures and
images of terracotta material in the course of trench diggings at
Mainamati, six miles west of the town of Comilla, was brought to
my notice by the Collector of Tippera District. An inspection was
immediately arranged and a survey of a part of the area along the
Mainamati and Lalmai ranges conducted. The results obtained in
the course of my brief survey are sufficiently indi re of the
importance of the area to archaeologists. The importance of the
discoveries will be best known and a valuable contribution made to
the history of Bengal when excavation of the area is undertaken.

Five miles to the west of Comilla rises a low hill range with an
average height of 90 feet above sea-level and 40 feet above the level
of the surrounding plai This low hill extends from Mainamati in
the north to Lalmai Railway Station in the south, for a distance of
about 10 miles, north to south, and is called Mainamati range near
Mainamati and Lalmai range further down where it widens. To the
west of the range lies Tripura State. The hill is called Lalmai
(Rohitagiri) from the fact that it is made up of slightly micaceous,
yellow-coloured standstone and ferruginous concretions, which when
decomposed colour the top of the hill brick-red.

Like its geological importance the Lalmai area affords sufficient
interest to the archaeologists. The plains are studded with what
appear to be entombed ruins, a supposition which proved to be
nearly correct in an area four miles to the south-west of Comilla where
the Central Public Works Department cut through a few mounds and
extracted a large number of bricks from well-planned structures.
The Collector's report regarding the diggings inthe military area
gave me high hopes of archaeological discoveries at Mainamati, as
the name ‘Mainamati’ is in Bengal history and religion sufficient to
conjure up a vista of archaeological wealth.

‘Mainamati’, the name by which the village and the adjoining hill
are known to-day, recalls the name of Queen Mayanamati (Madana-
vati), the wife of Manikcandra of the Candra dynasty that ruled in
Bengal in the tenth and eleventh centuries A.D, Many ballads are

Google
100 T. N. RAMACHANDRAN

popularly sung in Bengal in which the queen and her son Gopicandra
figure. According to Taranathia and some of these ballads, Gopi-
candra was a ruler of Mrikula (now known as Meharkula in Tippera
District).

In the old Bengali Caryd-padas, that deal with the mystical
esoteric doctrines and Yogic theories and practices of the Buddhist
Sahajayana, we find an interesting hierarchy of Siddha poets who are
Matsyendranatha, Gorakh-natha, Jalandhri-pada or Hadi-pa and
Kanhi the last mentioned assignable to the end of the twelfth
century. Kanha-pa’s Guru was Jalandharipada or Hadi-pa, himeelf
a disciple of Gorakh-nath. Queen Mainamati was Gorakh-nath’s
disciple, while Hadipa figures in the legend cycle of her son Gopi-
cand, which speaks of Gopicand’s unwilling renunciation, while
young, of his kingdom and his wives, Aduna and Paduna, at the
request of his mother Mainamati, who by dint of her Yogic powers
had come to know that he could not otherwise be saved from
premature death, and also how he left his home asa disciple of
Ha a Guru of low caste, who is Gorakh-nath’s disciple. The
Sahajayana of the Carydpadas relates to mystic Buddhism like
Vajrayana. While in Vajrayana ceremonials were emphasized, in
Sahajayana ceremonials were dispensed with, though the goal of
both was the same, viz., Mahdsukha. The prevalence of the
Sahajayana in Mainamati is attested to by an inscription of the
thirteenth century A.D. engraved on a copper-plate found at Maina-
mati which records a grant of land in favour of a Buddhist monastery
built in the city of Pattikera by Ranavankamalla Harik@ladeva in A.D
1220 in the seventeenth year of hie reign. This record also speaks
of a superior officer of the royal groom as practising the Sahajadharma
in Pattikeraka’.

The Kingdom of Pattikkera.

Pattikera was the capital city of the kingdom of that name mention-
ed in Burmese Chronicles as Pattikkara or Pateikkara, a name that may
be traced back to the eleventh century A.D. A pargana of Tippera
District which extends to Mainamati hills is still known as Patikara or
Paitkara and in older documents as Patikera or Paitkera. This helps
usto look for Pattikeré of the copper-plate in this pargana. Of
particular interest is the evidence furnished by an inscription of the
seventh century A.D. referring to a royal palace or residence at

1 Indian Historical Quarterly, vol. IX, p. 282,

Google

MAINAMATI AND LALMAI FINDS ror

Karmanta, the modern Badkamta, 12 8 west of Comilla and
6 miles west of Mainamati in Tippera District. Later records, such
asthe Baghaura inscription of the time of the Pala king Mahipala
(eleventh century A.D) and the Mehar copper-plate of Damodara-
deva (1234 A.D.) establish the connection of Samatata with the
modern Tippera District. In Samatata was situated the principality
or the kingdom of Pattikera, whose existence according to recent finds
at Mainamati can be traced ae far back as the eighth century A.D.
Coins similar to certain symbolical coins of the Candra dynasty of
Arakan, who had their capital at Wethali in Arakan from 788 to 957
A.D., and terracotta plaques with representations of Arakanese and
Burmese men and women were found at Mainamati. These throw
light on the relations between India and Burma in the th to the
tenth centuries A.D. In the coins the name of the principality is given
as Patikera, while the Burmese Chronicles refer to this kingdom as
Patikkara, the country of Kalas or foreigners which bounded on the
west the kingdom of Anoratha (1044-1077 A.D). They refer also to a
king ‘Pateikkara of the kingdom of Marawa’. The references in the
Burmese Chronicles imply that this kingdom was an independent
State during the eleventh and twelfth centuries A.D, when the.Pala
and Sena kings were ruling over Bengal. An intimate intercourse
between this kingdom and the kingdoms of Burma is proved by these
Chronicles, and inter-marriages in the royal families between the two
countries were also common. Pattikera princes and princesses figure
in the romances and tragedies in Burmese annals, poems and melo-
dramas, and the name of the Burmese king Kyanzittha (1084-1112
A.D), Alaungsithu and Narathu are well known. Indian Buddhism
was welcomed by Kyanzittha who built the Ananda temple at Pa:
after the temples of the Indian mainland. The Ananda temple is
described asthe best creation of Indo-Burmese art. Harikaladeva
Ranavankamalla, who in 1220 A.D. was presumably ruling as an
independent king, appears to have been a feudatory chief, who along
with two other ruling families with name-endings-deva came to power
after the collapse of the Sena sway in the thirteenth century A.D.
Strangely enough we do not hear of the principality of Pattikera after
es in the modern pargana of
Probably it was absorbed in the growing
kingdom of the Deva family.

° Google al
Linguistic Medium of the Sarvastivada School—

An Introduction,

ANUKUL CHANDRA BANERJEE

From the Chinese and the Tibetan translations as also from the
manuscript fragments discovered in Central Asia, Nepal and very
recently at Gilgit in Kashmir, and from quotations found in the
Lalitavistara, Divyavadana, Mahavastu, Abhidharmakosa, Madhya-
makaortti and from such other texts, we know that the Sarvastivadins
as well as the Milasarvastivadins employed Sanskrit as their literary
medium’. Prof. Winternitz’s view is substantially to the same effect.
He adds further that the Sarvastivadins who had their sphere of
activity extending from Kashmir to Mathura and were responsible
for the introduction of Buddhism into Central Asia, Tibet and China,
had canons of their own, although no complete copy is available up
till now. The Theravadins, the followers of the orthodox school,
assert thet the Pali canon preserves the original words of Buddha.
This traditional belief of the Theravada school has been chal-
lenged by the veteran scholars of the Buddhist Sanskrit literature,
such as Gruenwedel, Petrowsky, Kremenz, Pelliot, LeCog, Hoernle,
Sylvain Lévi, L. Poussin and others, on the basis of the discovery of
the numerous Sanskrit manuscript fragments in Nepal, Eastern
Turkestan and the neighbouring regions’. The manuscripts dis-
covered in Central Asia up to this day have been amply proved to be
fragments of the texts belonging to the Sarvastivada and later
Mahayana schools‘. We have no complete copy of the Sanskrit
Tripitaka still available to us. But with the find of the manuscripts
and also from quotations in the various Buddhist Sanskrit texts like
the Mahavastu, the Divydvadana and the Lalitavistara, it has been
shown that the Sarvastivada school had a Tripitaka of ite own’.

1 See A complete catalogue of the Tibetan Buddhist canons, od, HukujuVi
and others; Cordier's Catalogue, Pts. 11 & I1I; B. Nanjio, A complete Cata~
logue of the Chinese translation of the Buddhist Tripitaka; Hoernle, Manu-
script Remains of Buddhist Literature found in Eastern Turkestan; Gilgit
Manuscripts, ed. N. Dutt, vols. I-III.

2 Winternits, A History of Indian Literature, vol. 11, pp. 231, 232.

8 Hoernle, Manuscript Remains of the Buddhist literature found in
Eastern Turkestan, p. \6ff.

4 N. Dutt, Early History of the Spread of Buddhism and Buddhist
Schools, p. 239,

5 Hoernle. Manuscript Remains of the Buddhist literature found in
Eastern Turkestan, pp. 4-52, 166-175 and Winternitz, A History of Indian
Literature, vol. 11, p. 232 ff,

Google

SARVASTIVADA LINGUISTIC MEDIUM 103

The existence of Buddhist Sanskrit manuscripts was quite unknown
to scholars in India and abroad before 1824. The credit for the
discovery of the manuscripts goes to Brian Houghton Hodgson‘. It
was he who first discovered Buddhist Sanskrit manuscripts’, :mount-
ing to 381 bundles, in Nepal. This new find of manuscripts proved
that there were Buddhist canons preserved in a language other than
Pali and created a stir in the world of Buddhist scholarship. The
traditional belief that all the Buddhist canons are preserved only in
Pali was firet shaken thereby.

The canon of the Sarvastivadins was no doubt written in Sanskrit.
But the texts such as the Pratimokgasiitra’, the Lalitavistara and other
manuscript fragments of Agamas amply prove that their canon isa
revised version of an older canon and composed ina language not
always conforming to the rules of Sanskrit grammar. This is called
“Buddhist Sanskrit” or ‘‘Mixed Sanskrit’ i-e., partly Sanskrit and
partly Prakrit (or Middle Indian dialect) assimilated to Sanskrit’.

As regards this language, it may be observed here that there was
aclass of Buddhist writers of Sanskrit who paid more attention to
meaning than to correct form. “‘It regards as well as disregards the
elementary canons of grammar, metre, and even vocabulary. A sweet
melody seems to be its chief aim, and for this it is ready to sacrifice
every other essential condition of a language’’. And the conse-
quence was that their writings abounded in grammatical and other
irregularities. These consist in the use of

(1) Corrupt words, (2) Irregular pauses, (3) Words with no
case-endings, (4) Words with wrong case-endings, (5) Elision of
vowels and consonants, (6) Sandhis not sanctioned by the rules of
grammar, (7) Sonants for surds and vice-versa, (8) Locative for
ablative, or genitive for dative, (9) Reflective voice (atmanepada)
for active voice (parasmaipada) and vice-versa, (10) Singular for

6 See R. L. Mitra, Nepalese Buddhist Literature (Proface) and C. Bendall,

Catalogue of Buddhist Sanskrit Manuscripts (Preface) for biography and
works of Hodgson.

7 These manuscripts were presented to various learned bodies such as the
(Royal) Asiatic Sociéty of Bengal (Calcutta), the Royal Asiatic Society of
Great Britain and Ireland (London), the Bodleian Library (Oxford), the
Societe Asiatique, the Bibliothéque Nationale (Paris).

8 Two versions of the Pratimoksasitra are now available—one belonging
to the Sarvastivads school and the other to the Milasarvastivada.

9 Gilgit Manuscripts, vol. 11, ed. N. Dutt, Introduction, Wintornitz,
A History of Indian Literature, vol. I, pp. 2264. R. L. Mitra, Nepalese
Buddhist Literature, Introduction. K. Regamey, Three Chapters from the
Samadhirdja Satra, Introduction, p. 14, L'indo-aryan du véda auz temps
modernes, Paris, 1934, p. 9.

10 Gilgit Manuscripts, vol, II, ed. N. Dutt, p. viii.

Google

104 ANUKUL CHANDRA BANERJEE

plural and vice-versa, (11) Neuter for masculine and vice-versa,
(12) Interchange of 8, § and 8, (13) Interchange of dental n and
cerebral np, and (14) Diverse forme of pronouns’.

Of the above list, the verbs display the greatest Middle Indian
elements. This may be illustrated by the following instances

(i) The use of verbs which do not conform to any fixed rule and
as such have irregular forms—mostly due to the predilection for
abbreviation, e. g. deéenti for desasyanti, daréeti for dursayati, prara-
thenti for prdrathayenti, janenti for janayanti, bhoti for bhavati,
bhonti for bhavanti, bhegyati for bhavigyati, codenti for codayanti
and the like.

(ii) the use of 2 (indicative), 2nd person, plural for GZ (impera-
tive), 2nd person plural, e.g., vijanatha.

(iii) the use of aorists with Prakytic inflexions, e.g., upagami,
bhavayi, kgipi, avaci, prekgi and the like.

(iv) the use of tude for yap, e.g., Parydpunitoa, pravrajitud,
nigevitod, etc.

Since the exploration of the manuscript fragments of the Sanskrit
Sutra and Vinaya texts in Eastern Turkestan and neighbouring
regions, the Buddhist researchers in the field have been anxiously
expecting the discovery of further materials to confirm the assertion
of the previous scholars, Fortunately, the manuscripts very recently
discovered at Gilgit have fulfilled the high expectations of the
scholars. It is a matter of gratification that the Gilgit manuscripts
explored so far have restored almost half of the Sanskrit Vinaya.
Besides the Sanskrit Vinaya texts, they contain several other manu-
scripts not belonging to the Sanskrit canonical literature. There
is no room for doubt that all these maruscripts belonged to the
Sarvastivada school which became most influential and wide-spread
in the post-Agokan period, particularly in the Kushan times.

An analysis of the history of Sanskrit Buddhism reveals that the
prevalence of Pral this literature is due mainly to the fact that
Prakrit was the literary medium for a long period. It is an agreed
fact that Buddha discarded Sanskrit as a medium for the propaga-
tion of religion and the consequence was that Sanskrit came to the
background for the time being. King Agoka, too, whose enthusiasm
for the cause of Buddhism is too well-known to be mentioned,

11 To illustrate some of the above, let us cite here the utterances of the
Blessed One in verses from Millatantra :—

Ere weigarat ti fraternger feeder geore areaigieagaey |

areal vate Sieeat aa et wana aN ereiae weg THhgeTET 0

arate: araenferad: garfra war gat gaeeaRAT:
Google
SARVASTIVADA LINGUISTIC MEDIUM 105,

caused edicts to be incised in his vast empire. These edicts extol
the ideal life and the fruit of meritorious acte- and they are un-
doubtedly in Prakrit. There is no room for doubt that in the Pre-
Sanskrit was the literary medium of the people in
North-Western India, and the inscriptions of Aéoka which were
primarily meant for appealing to the hearts of the people, could not
in the long run produce the desired result. The reason lies in this
that people still had a leaning towards Sanskrit. Sanskrit, although
for the time being it had receded to the background, recovered from
the shock and with the revival of Brahmanism under the Gupta
dynasty regained the lost position. We find an exactly similar state
of affairs even if literary works. The existing Sanskrit works were
changed into Prakrit and many original works in Prakrit were also
composed. But a reverse tide came as a result of which Prakrit works
were changed into Sanskrit as we find in the Mahavastu, the Lalita-
vistara and the like’. It 30 evident from the fragments of the
Pratimokgasitra, Udanavarga, Dharmapada, Dirghagama, Madhyama-
gama, Samyuktagama™, as also from the Lalitavistara, Divyavadana,
and other works that the Sarvastividins adopted Sanskrit as the
language of the school. The Vibhagas—the originals of which are lost
but extant in Chinese and Tibetan—composed in the Council of
Kanigka,_were very likely in Sanskrit.

Thus we see that the Sarvastivadins had a Sanskrit canon of their
own and adopted Sanskrit as their literary medium. Both the Tibetan
and the Chinese versions of the Tripitaka testify to the above fact.
It in to the Pali Pitakas in contents but the lists of Nikaya Sitras
and Vinaya Chapters are different. This is probably because both
the versions, Pali and Sanskrit, sprang from a still older canon, the
canon in the Magadhi dialect, which was very likely employed by
Buddha in his religious discourses. The later texts now available of
this echool such asthe Divydvadana, Avadanasataka, Abhidharma-
koSavyakhya and the like, are all in pure Sanskrit’*. A critical study
of the texts published already under the caption ‘Gilgit Manuscripts”
also reveals the same fact. Further, the Sarvastivadins, it will be
remembered, had their sphere of activities in Mathura, Gandhara and
Kashmir, where Sanskrit was prevalent, which extended later on to
Central Asia, China and Tibet.

12 Keith, A History of Sanskrit literature, pp. ‘4-15, Dr. N. Dutt,
Early History of the Spread of Buddhism and Buddhist Schools, p. 27

13 Hoernle, Manuscript Remains of Buddhist literature found in Eastern
Turkestan, pp. 36-46.

14 The verse-portions are of course in Gathi-dialects—the Gathis being
cited by way of authority. ‘The same thing may be said of the other Mahayana
works such as the Saddharmapundarika Sitra, Suvarnaprabhdsa and the
like—the prose in correct Sanskrit and the Githds in mixed Sanskrit,

Google

REVIEWS OF BOOKS

THE AGRICULTURAL AND HUNTING METHODS OF THE
NAVAHO INDIANS. By W. W. Hill, Published for the Department of
Anthropology. Yale University, Yale University Press, 1938. pp. 194,
Plates 4, Figures 12. Price 2. 50.

The material for this study was collected during the summer
of 1933 and between July 1, 1934 and July 1,:1935. The information
was collected from 43 informants of both sexes inhabiting the diffe-
rent parts of Navaho habitat. The author does not give any reason
for selecting these persons as informants. He has siso not stated
his knowledge about the language of the Navaho. Employment
of five interpreters perhaps indicates that he is not acquainted with
the language of the people,

The book is divided into six chapters viz. Introduction, Agri-
culture, Agricultural Ritual, Hunting, Non-Ritual Hunting and
Conclusion. In the Introduction the author deals with the location
and extent of the Navaho territory which ‘‘comprises approximately
25,000 square miles of territory situated roughly between 108° and
111°45’ north latitude, and 34°55’ west longitude."’ (Unfortunately
the other longitude is not mentioned). This region forms a part of
the Colorado Plateux province. The climate of the Navaho region
is semi-arid. The mean annual rainfall ranges from ‘12° 80 inches
to 4° 96 inches at different parts of the reservation and the maxi-
mum annual range of temperature at different stations varied from
109° to 127°. Navaho economic life is adjusted to these climatic
factors. The author also gives in the Introduction a short resumé
‘of the seasonal and daily life of the people. The Navaho have two
Primary seasons, summer and winter, and twelve months with an
occasional thirteenth month to correct the lunar calendar.

In the chapter on Agriculture the author gives a very lucid and
detailed account of the different methods of cultivation, the types
of implements used, the different kinds of crops produced and how
they are stored and utilised. He also mentions that non-food plants
like cotton and tobacco were never grown by the Navaho but were
utilised from wild sources, The four most important cultivated
food-crops are corn, melons, squash and beans. ‘‘Peaches and
wheat were introduced into the Southwest by the Spanish, and
diffused to the Navaho on the aboriginal level from the Pueblos.”
These two crops considerably influenced the economy of the
Navaho. Wheat matured early in summer and thereby eliminated
the want which the people felt at this time owing to shortage of

Google

REVIEWS OF BOOKS 107

stored food. It was an off-season crop. Moreover wheat could be
produced at a higher altitude which increased the total area of
cultivable land and at the same time released land in lower altitudes
for cultivation of other crops.

Ritual and practical processes of agriculture have been inter-
woven into a highly integrated whole. Success or failure in agri-
culture does not depend so much on individual efforts or environ-
mental factors, as on correct performance of the rituals. Corn,
the most important cereal food of the tribe. is held in great venera-
tion. One of the informants states that “‘corn is just the same as
a human being, only it is holier.’’ ‘When a man goes into the
corn field he feels that he is in a holy place, that he is walking
among Holy People.......” The magico religious sanction for agri-
culture lies in such mythological beliefe and they find expression
in the chants recited at different stages of agricultural operations
and in observance of the various taboos.

Hunting is widely practised for supply of meat to the family.
As an economic pursuit it is second to agriculture. Deer and ante-
lope were the most important game animals. Besides these two,
the Navaho also hunted the rabbit, prairie dog, porcupine, mountain
sheep, elk, squirrel, and turkey. The eagle and the bear were
killed only for ceremonial purposes. Before the introduction of
guns, bows and arrows were the weapons for hunting. Arrow heads
are now-a-days made of iron but formerly they used to be fashioned
out of the tip of the wooden shaft- The Navaho employ different
methods of hunting. “Deer were stalked, tracked, shot from
ambush, surrounded by fire, trapped in pit falls and run down.
Antelope were stalked, impounded, and run down. Elk were
tracked. Bears were enticed from their dens in winter and clubbed.
Most small animals were shot, or caught in dead fall traps.”

In hunting, rituals play a very important part. In fact there are
two broad divisions of hunting based on the performance or non-
performance of rituals. ‘Deer, antelope, bear and eagles were
ritually hunted."’ Animals like buffaloe, elk, mountain lion, wolf,
etc. were hunted without ritual. ‘The Navaho believed that
although the hunters killed the game, the game did not die but
eventually returned to its ‘‘own country.” “The game are like
human beings, only holier. They are like the Holy People.’*
These beliefs supplied the mental background of the various obser-
vances and ceremonies connected with hunting. Navaho culture
is overburdened with rituals from our standpoint but to them it
appears to be quite normal. This is due to the perfect adjustment
of the ritual and practical sides of life. The author has very ably
shown the integration of these two sides in agriculture and hunting.

Google

108 REVIEWS OF BOOKS

This is also found in other departments of life. Even contact with
white culture has not changed the religious life of the people though
in certain cases it has changed their material life.

The author’s suggestion that rituals have two functions in Navaho
life, appear to be very plausible. Wherever and whenever the
Navaho feels that his practical knowledge is inadequate, he tries to
compensate it by means of rituals. The second function of ritual
is to provide occasions for relief from the every day humdrum life.

In the last section of the book the author has tried to show the
relation of Navaho culture with its neighbouring cultures primarily
in respect of agriculture and hunting. So far as practical proce-
dures of agriculture are concerned the Pueblos and the Navaho have
the greatest number of similarities, But not so in rituals, In hunting
again the Navahos are more nearly related to the people of the
Great Basin and Plateau and not to the Pueblos. In the opinion
of Dr. Hill *‘the material and economic culture of the Navaho is
fundamentally that of the Great Basin, but shows a definite influence
from Plains culture in some past time. Upon this fundamental Great
Basin culture generalized Pueblo traits form a superficial layer.””

We congratulate the author on his very clear exposition of the
culture traits surrounding agriculture and hunting among the Navaho.
Some of these traits are found in almost the same shape among
the Pre-Dravidian tribes of Chota Nagpur and in the folk rites per-
formed by the unmarried Hindu girls of Bengal. Dr. Aba
Tagore, the reputed Indian artist, has tried to show thi
in his book on the Vratas of Bengal. The chants which our little
girls recite in course of these Vratas find parallels in the chants of
the Amer-Indian tribes. A comparative study of the folk rites of
-Bengal and the rituals of these Amer-Indian tribes may reveal
interesting laws of culture growth.

T. C. Das

CHANDRAGUPTA MAURYA AND HIS TIMES. (Sir William
Meyer Lectures, 1940-41). By Radha Kumud Mukherjee, pp. xiv +
414. University of Madras, 1943.

The course of lectures comprised in this volume, says the author
in his Preface, is intended “‘to fillup a gap in our knowledge of
ancient India” in the shape of furnishing a comprehensive account of
the life and times of ‘India’s first historical emperor.” In this
attempt, it must be admitted, the author has attained a considerable
measure of success. Some idea of the scope of this work may be
formed from the headings of successive chapter: I. Origin
and Early Life, II. Conquests and Chronology, Ill. Administra-
tion: Ideals Divisions (a rather odd combination), IV. The

King, V. jinisterg: Rules of Service, VI. Administrative
° x00g1e

REVIEWS OF BOOKS 109

Departments and-Officers, VII. Land System and Rural Administra-
tion, VIII. Municipal Admi ation, IX. Law, X, The Army,
XI. Social Conditions, XII. Ecénomic Conditions. Three appen-
dices, of which two deal with Canakya and Candragupta traditions
from Buddhist and Jaina sources and the third traces the parallelism
between Asoka’s edicts and Kautilya’s Arthasastra bring this volume
to a close.

While congratulating the author on the industry and patience
with which he has marshalled his material from ‘the most varied
sources literary as well as archaeological, we may be permitted to
make a few remarks. The author has freely used the Arthasastra of
Kautilya as his most important source-book for the state of adminis-
tration, society and religion in Candragupta Maurya’s time. But
there are, as is well known, certain fundamental differences between
the polity of Kautilya’s work and that of Candragupta’s empire as
described by Megasthenes. The Kautilyan State is still, as in the
older Arthaéastra part and parcel of an international State-system,
thus falling far short of a single empire uniting the then known Indian
world, except the extreme south under a single sway. The official
nomenclature of the Kautilyan administration, both central and local,
is widely different from that known to Aéoka’s inscriptions and
traceable no doubt to the times of his grandfather. The type of
administrative organisation, again, as illustrated by Kautilya’s Boards
of Judges and his staff of single officers in charge of the civil and
military administrations differs markedly from that set forth in Megas-
thenes and at a later date in the Agokan epigraphs. The author, in
his anxiety to hunt up points of agreement between Kautilya and
Megasthenes, systematically slurs over these essential differences.
On page 48 the author quotes the famous lines of Matthew Arnold
(“The East bowed low before the blast” etc.) as correctly expressing
the Indian attitude towards Alexander's invasion. It is difficult to
reconcile this statement with the author’s detailed account (pp. 39-42)
of the sturdy fight put up bythe republican peoples of the Punjab
against the mighty invader. While describing the extent of cession
of territory by Seleucus to Candragupta (p. 60), the author. would
have done well to consider the criticism of the late Vincent’ Smith’s
view by. W. W, Tarn in his recently published work The Grecks in
Bactria and India. In describing “‘the traditional framework of
Ancient Indian polity into which the Maurya empire had necessari-
ly to fit itself’, the author observes (p. 77) that ‘‘Ancient India
was built up as avast rural democracy,” and again (p. 84) that
“the ancient Hindu monarchy was a limited monarchy under the

6

Google
110 REVIEWS OF BOOKS

very conception of the State”. The value of these somewhat
hasty gener: ns has been discussed by the present reviewer in
another place (Beginnings of Indian Historiography and other Essays,
pp. 135-144), The author renders (pp. 86-87, 121) rajika of
Aéoka’s inscriptions, ragfriya of Rudrad&man’s Girnar inscription and
ragtramukha and rastrapala of Kautilya’s ArthaSastra as ‘provincial
Governor.’ As the present reviewer has sought to prove elsewhere
(op. cit, pp. 62-67), these dignitaries were definitely of lower
rank than the governors of provinces. On p. 154, the author
quotes a statement of Megasthenes (in Diodorus’ version) to the
effect that ‘“‘husbandmen pay a land-tribute to the king besi
ing a fourth part of the produce of the soil.” But unhappily he is
completely silent about Megasthenes’ account in the alternative version
of Strabo, viz. that husbandmen till the land on condition of receiv-
ing one-fourth of the produce. An exhaustive discussion of the
problem presented by these somewhat contradictory statements has
been attempted by the present reviewer in another place ( Hindu
Revenue System, pp. 167-171). On the page last quoted (p. 154),
bali of Kautilya’s Arthasastra is incorrectly translated as ‘a general
land-tax,’ the correct rendering being an agricultural cess. The panel
of judges in Kautilya's ArthaSdstra is said (p. 244) to consist of
judges, three who are specialists in the law and three amatyas.”
correct translation, according to Ganapati Sastri’s explanation, would
be ‘three judges of the rank of amatya’ The author's tendency to
omit important references, e.g. to the Candragupta Basti at Sravana
Belgola (p. 65), to the Mahabharata passage giving the full comple-
ment of an army (p. 269) and to the Golakhpur hoard of silver punch-
marked coins (p. 345) cannot but be regarded as very unfortunate, as
also his neglect to refer to the views of previous scholars on important
topics such as the significance of the references to bhaga and bali in
AéSoka’s Rummindei inscription (p. 155).

The Vedic nishka, according to the author (p. 340), stands for a
coin, but it might as well mean a metallic ingot. The author quotes
(pp. 347-349) Allan for the statement that two classes of silver punch-
marked coins (viz. his classes II and VI) were ‘the coins of the
Maurya empire”. Allan's view, however, has been rendered out of
date by the discoveries of fresh hoards of these two classes of coins
on the Taxila site, of which the respective dates are given asc. 317
B.C. and c. 248 B.C. We know now that Allan’s class VI coins are
pre-Mauryan, while his class II coins are of the Mauryan times.

In describing the art of this period (p. 356f.), the author is
unaccountably silent about the architecture of _ Candragupta’s

Google
REVIEWS OF BOOKS ur

imperial palace at Pataliputra described by the Greek writers and the
excavation of its ruins by the late Dr. D.B. Spooner. On the
contrary, the author lists a series of eleven colossal stone statues
which he confidently says (p. 359) “fare admittedly pre-Aéokan and
perhaps pre-Mauryan”. But apart from the fact that none of the
reputed authorities has so far traced them beyond the Maurya period
we have to remember that a recent writer has given good grounds for
pushing their date to the times of the Bharhut Stipa or thereabout
(See Nihar-Ranjan Ray, Maurya and Suga Art, p. 48f.).

The book is enriched with two plates illustrating what the author
calls “typical Maurya punch-marked coins.” But as they comprise
a miscellaneous assortment of bent bar silver coins (now generally
held to be pre-Mauryan) and punch-marked silver coins of different
varieties (of which one has been just shown to be pre-Mauryan), the
accuracy of the author's nomenclature may very much be doubted.
It is again unfortunate that the author fails to give any reference to the
coin-types of his plates. The value of the book would have been
enhanced by the inclusion of one or two historical maps, the want of
which cannot but be deeply regretted.

U.N. Ghoshal.

Google
Endowment of Chinese Cultural Scholarships by the
Government of China at the Calcutta University

To encourage the study by foreign nationals of Chinese language,
literature, history and culture, the Ministry of Education of the
National Government of China endowed last year a series of five
scholarships each tenable in the under-mentioned Universities:
(1) University of Chicago, (2) University of Columbia, (3)
Harvard University, (4) Yale University, (5) Michigan University,
(6) Princeton University, (7) Oxford University, (8) London
University, (9) University of Calcutta, (10) Visva-Bharati
University. The Syndicate of the Calcutta University, while grate-
fully accepting this generous offer, has recently appointed four
scholars whose names with the subjects of their research are mention-
ed below:

Ajit Ranjan Bhattacharyya +Taoism and Indian Thought

Dr. Anukul Chandra Banerji ...Some Aspects of Buddhist Culture
from Chinese Sources

Krishnalal Chatterji .-/National Movement in Modern China

Jinananda Bhikkhu ion Activities between China
and Greater India

Progress of Indological Scholarship in France

Through the kindness of Mlle. Suzanne Karpeles, General Secre-
tary of The Buddhist. Institute and Curator of the Royal Library
of Cambodia, who reached Calcutta in January last, we are ina
position to announce a number of important publications by French
scholars in recent times. Professor L.. Renou has published two
works on Sanskrit grammar: Terminologie grammaticale du Sanskrit
(three volumes) and La Durghatavrtti de Saranadeva Text and
French translation, (vols. 1-4 already published, vol. 5 in the Press).
Other works undertaken by the same scholar are: Sdnkarabhasya
in French translation (vol. | in the Press), (ii) Ka@vya-mimamsa in
French translation (in the Press), (iii) Litérature sanscrite répertoire
alphabétique (alphabetical index of Sanskrit literature) (already
published), (iv) Manual des Etudes indiennes (vol. | in the Press).

Recently Professor Jean Filliozat has been making important

Google
PROGRESS OF INDOLOGICAL SCHOLARSHIP IN FRANCE 113

contributions to the study of Indian medicine. His works include
Magie et médicine Paris 1945; La formation de la médicine indienne
(in the Press); and Les doctrines essentielle de Ayurveda et la
médicine grecque (in the Press). Other works from his pen are
Bibliothéque nationale. Catalogue du fonds Sanscrit (manuscrits),
(Ist fascicule) P: 1941, and L’Inde Classique, Manuel des etudes
indiennes (avec M. Renou), vol. |. (in the Press). The Geld of Indian
archaeology is going to be enriched by a translation of the edicts of
Aéoka from the pen of Professor Jules Bloch. As regards Pali
studies mention may be made of the forthcoming publication of
an edition de luxe of the Digha Nikaya, Suttas 1-13; (Pali text
established by the Tipitaka Commission of the Buddhist Institute
of Cambodia, French translation by Jules Bloch, Jean Fillio:
L. Renou) under the auspices of the Institut de”
Indienne of Paris University. In the sphere of Outer India, the
place of honour belongs to the work called La vielle route de l’Inde.
de Bactres d Taxila (Part | already published. Part II in the Press)
by Professor A. Foucher, forming the long-expected Volume | of
the Mémoires de la Délégation francaise en Afghanistan. We note
also with interest that the posthumous work of the late lamented
J. Hackin will be published in a joint English and French edition
with the aid of Warburg Institute of London. Mention may be
made in this connection of Professor Filliozat’s work Fragments de
Textes Koutchéens de médicine et de magie.

Among works on Art and Archaeology of south-east Asia special
mention may be made of L’Art Khmer, les étapes de son évolution
by the late lamented Gilberte de Coral Remusat (1940). Two other
works by the same scholar on Khmer decoration and the fantastic
animals of the Far East are going to be published posthumously.
In South-east Asia the French School of the Far East was able, in
spite of the difficulties of the Great War, to publish two volumes of
its Bulletin, namely, BEFEO, tome xli. Fasc. 1-2, (Hanoi 1941 and
1942), Ibid, vol xlii (Hanoi 1943).

A very important work by George Qoedés called Histoire An-
cienne des Etats Hindouisés d’Extréme-Orient was published from
Hanoi in 1944. We have lastly to mention a work on the Compara-
tive Architecture of India and the Far East by Henri Marchal, of
which vol. | was published in 1944 and vol. 2 is in the Press.

U.N. G.

Google
Learned Societies in France

To the kindness of Mlle. Suzanne Karpeles we also owe the
following information about the present condition of the learned
societies in France dealing with Indology and connected topics.

The Société Asiatique of Paris, thanks to its energetic President,
the late Professor Paul Pelliot, was able to continue its activities
throughout the period of German occupation. It held its monthly
sessions as usual and brought out the Journal Asiatique, although
provisionally under the changed title of Mélanges Asiatiques. At
the Sorbonne, at the L'Ecole des Langues Orientales, at the
Collége du France, the courses relating to India and Indian expan-
sion in the Asiatic world were continued without interruption.

At the I’Ecole du Louvre the courses of lectures connected with
the Chair of Indianism comprised during the four years of German
occupation the following topics: (1) Indian architecture, (2) Buddhist
and Brahmanical sculptures of Ancient India, (3) Buddhist and
Brahmanical sculptures of Indo-China and Insulindia, of Tibet,
Afghanistan, and Central Asia. During the session 1945-46 the
programme of lectures has been arranged to cover the arts influenced
by India, viz. those of Campa, Java, Central Asia, Tibet, China
and Japan. M. Philippe Stern is to take up the important course
on Campa. His great work L’Art du Campa (ancien Annam) et
son évolution was published secretly from Toulouse in 1943.

The Musée Guimet, which was closed since Ist September 1939,
is gradually re-opening its ls to the public, the priority for
removal of precious collections from their places of safety having
been given to the Musée du Louvre. It is a great relief to learn that
the entire collection of the Musée Guimet has been preserved intact
almost by a miracle.

U.N. G.

Exhibition of Afghanistan antiquities at the
Calcutta University
[Mr. Devaprasad Ghosh, M.A,, P.R.S., Curator, Asutosh Museum
of Indian Art has sent us, at our request, the following report on
the exhibition of Buddhist and Moslem antiquities of Afghanistan
held in the Asutosh Museum, Calcutta Uuiversity in January 1946,
under the auspices of Mr. Ahmad Ali Kohzad, Director of the Kabul
Museum. The Managing Committee of the Greater India Society takes

Google -
AFGHANISTAN ANTIQUITIES AT CALCUTTA UNIVERSITY 115

this opportunity to join with Calcutta University in thanking Mr.
Kohzad and the Afghan Government for making it possible to arrange
this exhibition]

“Indians have forgotten that Afghanisthan once formed part and
parcel of India proper. As an important province of the Maurya
Empire, as the seat of the Indo-Bactrian and Kushan dynasties and
later of the Shahi kings, Afghanisthan continued to be an integral
part of India for centuries together till it was overrun by the Muslim
conquerors. Even in the Mughal period, as a forntier province it was
a hot bone of contention between the Mughal Emperors of Delhi
and the Persians.

“Significantly enough, Mr. Ahmed Ali Kohzad, the Head of the
Afghan Mission, who recently came to Calcutta in connection with
the Bi-centenary Celebrations of Sir William Jones at the Royal
Asiatic Society of Bengal, said that the ancient name of Afghanisthan
was Ariyana. It is well known that in those far off days Jalalabad
used to be known as Nagarhara, Begram (80 miles north of Kabul) as
Kapiéa, all typical Sanskrit names. Even now the entire country
dotted with ancient ruins of monumental sculptures and Buddhist
stiipas, which were noted by the eminent Chinese pilgrim Huen-
Tsang in the 7th century A. D. Some of these stipas in the Kabul
Valley have been unearthed by a French Archaeological Mission with
remarkable results.

“The Afghan Mission brought down with them a fair and represen-
tative collection of art and antiquities of ancient and mediaeval
Afghanisthan, now preserved in the Central Museum of Kabul. A
small but very interesting exhibition, displaying the objects which
have never been seen in India before, was organised at the Asutash
Museum of Indian Art, University of Calcutta. Although it remained
on view from the 15th to 19th January only, it aroused keen interest
among students, educationists and art-lovers as evinced by the eager
crowds of people.
ating the Islamic as well mic periods the
ing of about 100 exhil ided into speci-
mens of art objects representing three epochs of art in Afghanisthan.
The first consisted of Buddhist stucco figures from Hadda, discovered
by M. Hackin, belonging to the 2nd and 3rd centuries A.D. They
were undoubtedly the finest products of the Gandhara school of art,
as Hadda had been geographically and artistically the heart of
ancient Gandhara. Some of the heads of Buddha and Bodhisattva,
often painted were-di ished by rare charm and delicacy. Others
represented ethnic types, scarcely different from those prevailing now.

Google
116 EDITORIAL NOTES

in modern Afghanisthan. A unique marble image of Siryya, the Sun-
god attracted considerable attention in the exhibition. It was dated
about the 5th century A. D. but on stylistic grounds should be placed
earlic In any case, aesthetically and iconographically it was an
intriguing piece.

“Of the metal objects, the Hellenistic bronzes from Begram, show-
ing Hercules and other Greek classical figures, of about the beginning
of the Christian era, illustrated the earliest phase of Gandhara art.

“The second group consisting of bronzes from Ghazni exhibited
here, showed for the first time to connoisseurs that the art of bronze
casting in the Islamic period (I!th-13th centuries A. D.) had attained
its highest point at Ghazni.

“The third group of the collection revealed the beautiful manus-

cripts containing brilliant miniatures from the Timurid period of Herat.
The illuminated pages were resplendent with the calligraphy and
painting of some of the greatest masters of mediaeval Afghanisthan.
Of the 35 manuscripts some related to the Timurnamah, the Bustan of
Sa'di, the Diwan of Hafiz, the Khamseh of Nizami and prayers of the
intings from the Akbarnamah, envisaging the
best traits of the Jahangir school of Mughal Painting, were not the
important exhibits of the Section.
‘We are indeed thankful to the Government of Afghanisthan for
jing us the rare opportunities of understanding the dominant
role played by Afghanisthan in the field of art and renewing the age-
long cultural contact between India and Afghanisthan.””

D. P. Ghosh

Editorial Notes

The Managing Committee of the Grater India Society conveys its
most sincere thanks to Dr. B. C. Law, the well-known Buddhist
scholar and philanthropist for his kind donation of Rs. 1200/- in aid
of the publication of the Society’s Journal. Dr. B. C. Law has
further encouraged the Society by kindly agreeing to become a

member of its Managing Committee with effect from the last year.
. . . .

The Managing Committee of the Society is very thankful to Messrs.
G. Basu & Co. (Incorporated Accountants and Auditors), Calcutta for
the trouble they have taken in auditing the Society’s accounts for the

years 1941-1944 in an honorary capacity. .
. * . * \

Google
EDITORIAL NOTES 117,

The earnest thanks of the Committee are due to Dr. N.N. Law,
one of the foundation members of the Society. for his making the
annual donation of Rs. !00/- for the current year.

. . . .

Dr. B. Ch. Chhabra, Officiating Government Epigraphist for India,
has kindly sent us an English rendering of a letter received by him
from Dr. J. Ph. Vogel who wrote it on the 10th November 1945 from
his home address near Leiden. We quote in translation the following
extracts from this letter with Dr. Chhabra’s permission :—

sees You may have already learnt that a rumour about my
death was unfounded. Three years ago my brother J. Th. Vogel
died and an announcement of his death in the papers has possibly
been the cause of this misunderstanding. Even in America an
obituary notice has appeare

“The Kern Institute has also remained intact, though in the
month of December last year (1944) some bombs exploded quite near
the building. But luckily not a single book has been lost or damaged.
The Institute could gladly resume its activi but for the want of
coal and paper.” (Sd.) J. Ph, Vogel.

“{ still regularly read Hindi with students and hope to publish
a Dutch translation of Prem Chand’s Sapt Saroj "”

The letter speaks for itself. While sincerely apologising to the
weteran scholar for the premature publication of hie obituary notice
in the last number of our Journal, we welcome with great satisfaction
the news that he is hale and hearty after the terrible years of the
Great War. We wish him many years of strenuous literary activity
in the future. We take this opportunity of expressing our sense of
high relief at the fortunate escape of the Kern Institute from the
ravages of the war. We wish the Institute a long continuance of its
useful careeer. Meanwhile we extend our cordial welcome to the
latest number of the Annual Bibliography of Indian Archaeology
published by the Kern’ Institute, copies of which have just reached
India.

Select Contents of Oriental Journals

Bulletin of the School of Oriental and African Studies,
Vol. xi, Part 2 (1945)
Bailey, H. W.—The Khotan Dhammapada.

Thomas, F. W.—Some Notes on Central-Asian Kharogthi Documents
(I Document No. 661: 1, Hinajhaetc.;2. The dynastic appelea-
tion Vijaya; 3. Source and date of No. 661; 4. Persons named
in No. 661, 5. Language and script of No. 661 ; 6. Some parti-

cular words. Il. Piro, Pirova, Pirovala. III. Bumnime, Bhoti,
Avasama, IV Silpoga, V. Pata Patta.

Journal of the Ceylon Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society,
Vol. XXXV, part 2, 1945.

Paranavitana, S.—Brahmi Inscriptions in Sinhalese verse.

The Jaina Antiquary, Vol. ix, No. 2. 1943.
Upadhye, A.N.—On the latest Progress of Jaina and Buddhist Studies.

Printed and publised by J. C. Sarkhel at the Calcutta Onidqual Press, Leds
: % Panchanan Ghosh Lane, Calcutta,

Google
Journal of the Greater India Society

Issued twice every year, in January and July. It is the only
Journal in India concerned with the investigation of Indian cultural
influences on foreign lands. Besides a large number of original
articles from the pen of distinguished authorities, both Indian and
foreign, it contains reviews of books and select contents of Oriental
Journals in English and Continental languages. A limited number
of the back issues of the Journal (Vols. I-XI) are available for sale.

Contents of J. @. /. 8. Vol. XH, No I, pp. 1-68

In Memoriam—The Late Dr. J. Ph. Vogel (Dr. B. Ch. Chhabra);
Three more Yipa Inscriptions of King Milavarman from Koetei
(East Borneo) (Dr. B. Ch. Chhabra); The status of Dhimmis in Muslim
States, with special reference to Mughal India (M. L. Roy Choudhury
Sastri); The kris of the first Muslim Sultan of Malacca in the
Collection of H. H. the Maharaja Gaekwad of Baroda (Dr. H. Goetz)

Some Works by U. N. Ghoshal

A History of Hindu Political Theories from the earliest times
to the end of the seventeenth century A.D. (2nd edition, Oxford

University Press, 1927). Rs, 8/-
Contributions to the History of the Hindu Revenue System
(University of Calcutta, 1929). Rs. 5/8/-
The Agrarian System in Ancient India (University of Calcutta,
1930). Rs. 2/8/-
Ancient Indian Culture in Afghanistan (Bulletin of the Greater-
India Society, No. 5. Calcutta, 1928). Re. 1/-
Progress of Creater Indian Research, 1917-1942 (Publication of
the Greater India Society, No. 14. Calcutta, 1943). Rs. 4/+
The Be; ings of Indian Historiography and other Essays
(Calcutta, 1944). - Rs. 8/-

A History of Hindu Public Life Part 1. Period of the Vedic
Samhitas, Brahmanas and the older Upanigads. Calcutta, 1945. Rs. 6/+

A History of Hindu Public Life. Part Il. The Pre-Maurya Period.
Un preparation]

Enquire at—37, Badurbagan Row, P. O. Amherst Street, Calcutta.

7
Li a

Google ,
a . , PUBLICATIONS OF THE |

Greater India’ Society.

N. P. Chakravarti (to,.be: re-ispued),
5. Anolent Indian Culture in ighantstan—By | Dr, ¥; N. Ghoshal

ook _ PUBLICATIONS
1. Anolent Indian Colonies in the Far East—Vol.
R. C. Majumdar. nage

2. Anolent tnt

3. Hindu Law and Custom—(Only authorised Engligh.. tran
Julius Jolly’s Recht und Sitie)—By Dr. B. K. Ghosh.”

4, Soolal, Life .In, Ancient trata (Studies . in, Vatsyayana’s Kamasitce)e
H. C. Chakladar. . Ra 4

5. Prati

-mana-tal

8 Indian Literature’in China ‘and the Far Eat By. K. Matidherjit ©
ce Re
Re, 38,

8. FEAL ANA (Hindi edition of Bull
9. JBI STAT (Bengali edition of Bulletin No. 1.)
10, Indo-Javanese History (Only authorised English ‘translatidn of:Prof.. N.
J. Krom’s Hindoe-Javaansche Geschiedenis. _ With , up-to-date notes-by

Dr. Krom)—By Himanst Bhusan Sarkar, M.A. (In the Press)
11. Progress of Greater indian Research (1917-42)—By Dr. U.N. Ghoshal
Rs.

GREATER INDIA STUDIES) © ~~

1, Indian influences on the Literature of Java and |
Bhusan Sarkar, M.A. hoe
Travels of Tibetan Pilgrims in the Swat Val

4 or 8 shillings.

To be had of the Manager, GREATER INDIA SOCIETY,
35, BADURBAGAN ROW, P.O. AMHERST STREET,

CALCUTTA,
)

\
S

Google

Original from

Digitized by Google UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
Original from

Digitized by Google UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
Original from

Digitized by Google UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
Driginal fr
ITY OF MICHIGAN

Digitized by 0 UNIVER:

