4] SANTINIKETAN
VISWA BHARATI!

THE

JOURNAL

OF THE

GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

Vol. 181 (1936)

EDITED BY

U. N. GHOSHAL.

CALCUTTA.

1936

Published by the Greater India Societg.
THE

JOURNAL OF THE GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

CONTENTS

Volume III, (1936)

Articles

Archaeological Explorations on the neck of Khair

Khaneh (near Kabul),
By Dr. J. Hackin

Contributions from the Mahdévamsa to our ewowledee
of the Mediaeval culture of Ceylon (II)

By Dr. Wilhelm Geiger
Date of IAnavarman II

By Dr. George Goedés .
Greater India and the Work of Sylvain Lévi.

By Dr. J. Przyluski wes
Kalinga Dynasty of Ceylon,
By Mr. S. Paranavitana
Kufjarakufjadega and the Changal Inscription,
*By Dr. Bahadur Chand Chhabra
Literary and Epigraphic Notes,

By Mr. Himansu Bhusan Sarkar
Malay,

By Dr. R. C. Majumdar
Non-Aryan elements in Indo-Aryan,

By Dr. Suniti Kumar Chatterji
Old-Javanese Korawdasrama,

By Dr. J. L. Swellengrebel
Prasasti,

By Pandit Vidhushekhara Bhattacharya
Some Hindu relics in Borneo,

By Mr. O. C. Gangoly

Pages.

23

139

65

57

108

86

43

67

97
| it J
Source of, and a parallel to, Dionysius on the Beautiful,
By Dr. A. K. Coomaraswamy
Sources of the Art of Srivijaya,
By Mr. Devaprasad Ghosh
Source of the Old-Javanese Rémdyana Kakawin,
By Mr. Manomohan Ghosh .
South Indian Portrait Bronze from Sumatra,, ;
By Prof. K. A. Nilakanta Sastri
Sylvain Lévi and the Science of Indology,
By Dr. Kalidas Nag
Terminal Stipa of the Barabudur,
By Dr. J. Przyluski
Veda and Avesta (II),
By Dr. Batakrishna Ghosh

Alphabetical List of contributors

Bhattacharya, Pandit Vidhushekhara,
Praégasti bes
Chatterji, Dr. Suniti Kumar,
Non-Aryan Elements in Indo-Aryan
Chhabra, Dr. Bahadur Chand,
Kufijarakuftjadega and the Changal Inscription
Coedés, Dr. George,
Date of I8G@navarman IH: The Inscription of
Tiiol kul (Province of Méng, Cambodia)...
Coomaraswamy, Dr. A. K.,
The source of, and a parallel to, Dionysius
on the Beautiful
Gangoly, Mr. O. C.,
On some Hindu relics in Borneo ...
Geiger, Dr. Wilhelm,
Contributions from the Mahadvamsa to our
knowledge of the Mediaeval culture of
Ceylon (II)
Ghosh, Dr. Batakrishna, D.Litt.,
Veda and Avesta (Il) ...

36

50

113

104

158

43

65

36

139
Ghosh, Mr. Devaprasad,

Sources of the Art of Srivijaya 50
Ghosh, Mr. Manomohan,

On the Source of the Old-Javanese Ramayana

Kakawin 143

Hackin, Dr. Jeg

Archaeolégical explorations on the neck of

Khair Khaneh (near Kabul)... 23

Majumdar, Dr. R. C.,

The Malay 86
Nag, Dr. Kalidas,

Sylvain Lévi and the Science of Indology 3
Paranavitana, Mr. S.,

The Kalinga Dynasty of Ceylon 57
Przyluski, Dr. J.,

Greater India and the Work of Sylvain Lévi ... 18

The Terminal Stapa of the Barabudur 158
Sarkar, Mr. Himansu Bhusan,

Literary and Epigraphic Notes 108
Sastri, Prof. K. A. Nilakanta,

A South Indian Portrait Bronze from Sumatra 104
Swellengrebel, Dr. J. L.,

On the Old-Javanese Korawagrama 67
Comment and Criticism:

(i) ‘The study of Javanese literature in India’
By Mr. Himansu Bhusan Sarkar
(ii) A Correction

By Mr. Himansu Bhusan Sarkar ves

Notices of Books, ves 118, 224

W. F. STUTTERHEIM, Indian Influences in Old-
Balinese Art (O. C. Gangoly); K. A. NILAKANTA
.ASTRI, The Colas (U.N. Ghoshal) ; HARI PRASAD
SHASTRI, Teachings from the Bhagavad-Gita (Mahendra
Nath Sarkar) ; ]. GONDA, The Javanese Version of the
Bhagavad-Gita, (S-K.De) ; B.M.GOSLINGS, Gids in het
.Volkenkunde Museum, XII!, (H.B. Sarkar); J. PH.
[ iv ]

DUYVENDAK, Inleiding tot de ethnologie van de In-
dische Archipel (H. B. Sarkar); R.H. VAN GULIK,
Hayagriva, The Mantrayanic Aspect of Horse-cult in
China and Japan, (J. N. Banerjea) : |. GOND 4, Agastya-
parwa, (H. B. Sarkar) ; Koninklijke Vereeniging Kolo-
niaal Instituut, (H. B. Sarkar); ELIZABETH SHARPE,
The India that is India, (K. N.); HARI PRASAD
SHASTRI, Book of Ram: The Bible of India (K.N.)

Obituary Notice :—
Dr. E. Obermiller (Prof. Th. Stcherbatsky) ... 21
Notes... wee eee wee . 214

Extracts from the Annual Report of the Society
for the year 1935-36... bee .. =214

Publications of cognate interest in other Journals ... 219
IGIS. 1546

Plate I.

PRoi SYLVAIN LEVI,

By Courtesy of the Prabas; Press, Calcutta,
In Memoriam

Sylvain Lévi is dead. The penetrating mind that explored
the obliterated paths of India’s ancient history, difficult of
access, has laid down its task. And for the intellectual
service he has rendered to India, precious in its rareness and
luminous in its sagacity, we can but offer our homage of
praise to his memory. He has joined the past which is
immortal and which it was his own life’s work to bring to
the recognition of the living present. The students from
India who had the opportunity of receiving his unfailing
tindness and untiring help will ever mourn his floss, the foss
of a frie’ d and a guide.

He has special claim of gratitude from me who represent
Santiniketan, for he was the first of the European scholars
who readily responded to my call and came to train our own
students and scholars in the scientific technique of historical
research; he has helped me to create in our asrama the
tradition ‘of the international fellowship of culture which he
could do to a perfection, not only because his scholarship
was great, but also because he had the beautiful gift of
friendliness and a genuine sympathy for students and patience
for them even when their capacity was too elementary for
the learning which he himself possessed.

Rabindranath Tagore
THE

JOURNAL OF THE GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

JANUARY, 1936

CONTENTS

Articles
Pragasti vee wes ves
By Prof. Vidhushekhara Bhattacharya
Sylvain Lévi and the Science of Indology
By Dr. Kalidas Nag, D. Litt.
Greater India and the work of Sylvain Lévi
By Dr. J. Przyluski, D, Litt.
Archaeological Explorations of the Neck of the
Khair Khaneh (near Kabul) ...
By Dr. J. Hackin
The Source of, and a Parallel to, Dionysius
on the Beautiful

By Dr. Ananda K. Coomaraswamy, D. Se,

Non-Aryan Elements in Indo-Aryan
« By Prof. Suniti Kumar Chatterji, D. Litt
Sources of the Art of Sri-Vijaya

By Devaprasad Ghosh, M. A., P. R. Ss.

The Kalinga Dynasty of Ceylon
By S. Paranavitana

A Date of ISanavarman II: The Inscription of

Tiol Kul (Province of Méng, Cambodia)

By Dr, George Coedés, Ph. D.

On the Old-Javanese Korawasrama
Ry J. L. Swellengrebel

The ‘vialay

By Dr. R. C. "Majumder, M. A., Ph. D.

On Some Hindu Relics in Borneo
By O. C. Gangoly.

23

36

43

50

57

65

97
ii
A South Indian Portrait Bronze from Sumatra ... .. 104
By Prof. K. A. Nilakanta Sastri, M. A.
Notes

Literary and Epigraphic Notes... ve]
By Himansu Bhusan Sarkar, M. A.

On the Source of the Old-Javanese Ramayana Kakawin  ... 113
By Manomohan Ghosh, M. A. :

Notices of Books 118

Dr. W. F. Stutterheim, Indian Influences in - Old Balinese
Art. Reviewed by O. C, Gangoly.

Prof. K. A. Nilakanta Sastri, M. A., The Colas.
Reviewed by U. N. Ghoshal.

Hari Prasad Shastri, D. Litt., Teachings from the

Bhagavad-Gita. Reviewed by M. S.

Little Books on Asiatic Art

BY 0. C. GANGOLY
THE ART OF JAVA

63 Pp. 16 Diagrams & 67 Plates Price Rs. 6/- Postage extra.

INDIAN ARCHITECTURE

58 Pp. 45 Diagrams & 55 Plates Price Rs. 5/- Postage extra.

SOUTHERN INDIAN BRONZES
36 Pp. 10 Diagrams & 23 Plates Price Rs. 4/8/- Postage extra.
Superbly printed with lavish Illustrations.

A MARVEL OF CHEAPNESS & EXCELLENCE

Orders to be sent to:—

A. N. GANGOLY,

6, Old Post Office Street, Caloutta.

THE JOURNAL

OF THE

GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

VoL. III JANUARY: 1936 No. 1

Nl ZeqTasstadathta: Taka: tt

meadistad alfa qarareareatadizar aay
mraegtagted qafre Aafirs wae

ay sreafe aa cafe ot waraha eeeqfa ua i
ager adie gfafetararg wae

Sarasa + 7 ATATHE: TATRA |

ud aate aa J Aaa: BAT ATA AErL

da ferafaarsrarats gat Tearat aaeatafa uz uu

RATT WIT Teparay fatearts |
weg atarfey Ay Ag aaa Ast sfafacwafag uu

feariiet aracag aut aed aera ATT |
Hd qlaqaateanant 7 et Fy Weal areas: Ul ¥

aT TH AeA HA TAGS ataramaa faa,
VAG A ara aafaata asugtagraraa: we u

sTggaAay VA TATA |
ward aed Saat afat derfteata tt ¢

Vidhushekhara Bhattacharya
Sylvain Levi and the Science of Indology

By Dr. Kalidas Nag

It requires no*apology to-day to claim the title of Science
on behalf of the systematic study of Indian culture and
antiquities. The 19th century had witnessed the enfran-
chisement of a few more “‘ologies’’ in her already bulky list
of Sciences. Along with Egyptology, Assyriclogy and
Sinology, Indology also claims her place in the scale of her
comparative culture history of humanity.

Like every other Science, Indology now presents a Jong
list of devoted workers. In as much as Prof. Sylvain Lévi's
career epitomises and symbolises the progress of this new
Science, we presume to present an outline of the life and
activities of this French savant for the benefit of the fresh
recruits in the field of Indology.

Sylvain Lévi entered the arena of Indian studies just one
century after its inauguration: 1784 witnessed the founda-
tion of the Asiatic Society of Bengal under the initiative of
Sir William Jones and in 1884 we find Sylvain Lévi sitting
at the feet of Abel Bergaigne, one of the rarest type of the
teachers pf Sanskrit in Europe. Thus a hurried glance
across the list of Lévi's predecessors and contemporaries
would help us to have a correct perspective and to ascertain
the specific character of Lévi’s contribution to the develop-
ment of the Science.

India attracted the attention of the world through ages:
Alexander to Albouquerque, Kadphises to Nadir Shah—what
a history of feverish search for the wealth of India! As
late as the mid 17th century we find Milton singing of “the
wealth of Ormuz and of Ind”’ in his Paradise Lost—no doubt
a poetic paraphrase of the history of Portuguese exploita-
tion. A century after we notice a curious phenomenon.
The foremost intellect of France, the arch-rationalist Voltaire
eagerly searching for the Ezour Vedam of the Hindus not
4 KALIDAS NAG

knowing that the papers were forgeries of a Portuguese
Jesuit priest. What is more wonderful is that France in
another of her sons offers the first audacious discoverer of the
authentic records of Indian culture. Anquetil Duperron, eager
to discover the Vedas of the Hindus, joined the service of
the French East India Company in 1754, and succeeded in
offering to the Bibliothéque Nationale of Paris, the first
nucleus of an Oriental Library in the form of the manuscripts
of the Vedas and the Avesta. Duperron signalised a new
departure in the history of Europe's quest for India. (Vide:
Lévi: Preface to M. R. Schwab's Anquetil Duperron, Paris
1934.) It is not only the physical wealth but the cultural and
spiritual legacy of India that is attracting Europe. This orien-
tation (in the literal and metaphorical sense of the term)
of the occidental outlook is as mysterious as, and coincides
strikingly with, the startling declaration of American. Inde-
pendence and the epoch-making phenomenon of the French
Revolution. The West suddenly felt the need of the East—
a need which, as future history would show, is deeper than
Economics and wider than Politics. The pioneers of Indian
studies like Jones and Chézy were passionate admirers of
Sakuntala. The masterpiece of immortal Kalidasa by a
characteristic touch of poetic justice secured the co-operation
of the English, the 'rench and the German schools of. Indo-
logy. Thus the new science went on gaining fresh votaries
to her temple. After Jones and Chézy came Colebrooke and
Burnouf—both remarkable for their intensity of study and
variety of achievements. Colebrooke studied the Vedas and
Indian Philosophy, the lexicon and Indian law with equally
fruitful results; while Burnouf proved himself to be a veri-
table prodigy—the first great genius of the science of Indo-
logy. Not satisfied with an extensive study of Sanskrit and
Pali, Burnouf applied himself to the mastery of Tibetan,
Siamese, Burmese and Avestan languages, thereby attaining
a rare maturity of judgment and accuracy of intuition.
Introduction a Vhistofje du Buddhisme Indien still stands
as a marvel of scholarship’ and a deathless monument
to his genius. Working at the Duperron MSS. on the one
SYLVAIN LEVI AND THE SCIENCE OF INDOLOGY 5

hand and the Hodgson MSS. on the other, Burnouf sounded
the keynote for the French School of Indologists: not narrow
specialisation in one particular branch but the opening up
of ever-widening vistas of Indian Culture History. Hence it
was as it were in the fitness of things that Burnouf should bless
the pioneers of the forthcoming generation of workers by
hig personal initiation. Both Bopp and Max Miller sat at the
feet of Burnouf, while Christian Lassen was deeply influenced
by him. Thus gradually we reach the period of scientific
excavations, when in Germany appear workers like Bopp and
Weber, Bothlingk and Roth and in France Regnaud and
Bergaigne, Barth and Senart whose appearance was
characterised by Lévi as ‘“‘la naissance d’une pleiade
d’Indignistes.’”*

It was when this pleiad was shining bright on the firma-
ment of the French School that Sylvain Lévi appeared on the
horizon. Thus his career, stretching as it does across the
19th to the 20th century, touches the luminous line radiating
between Burnouf and Bergaigne on the one hand and
the luminaries of the coming generation like Foucher and
Pelliot on the other. Hence his career is of immense histori
interest to all students of Indology.

Born in Paris, March 28, 1863, Sylvain Lévi seemed to
havé¢ finished undergoing the university discipline with such
a phengmenal rapidity that we almost miss Lévi the matur-
ing student in Lévi the finished savant. He was a licencié
(1882) and an agrégé des letires (1883) when he was barely
twenty. Men like Ernest Renan and James Darmesteter had
always an eye on this remarkable young scholar. Lévi
manifested at this time a strong predilection for the Classics.
In fact he was meditating to join the French School at
Athens, when Renan rendered unconsciously a signal service
to the cause of Indology by dealing the decisive push which
won Lévi permanently for the Indian science. Lévi was
brought in touch with Abel Bergaigne, one of the greatest
teachers of Sanskrit in Europe. It is an irony of fate no

1 Lévi—l'Indignisme, 1915.
6 KALIDAS NAG

doubt that almost immediately after Lévi's afhliation into
the classes of Bergaigne, James Darmesteter, the great Aves-
tan scholar, paid him a visit to win him as an assistant to his
Avestan studies. But India and not Iran was the predestined
sphere of Lévi's work. And thus we find him preparing
for his memorable researches under the instruction of
his master, Bergaigne. That great scholar’ had then been
publishing his researches into the Vedic literature and the
documents of Cambodgian history published in the Journal
Asiatique (1882-83). Lévi learned his elements of Sanskrit
rhetoric and prosody not from academic Indian treatises on
the subject but from concrete epigraphical documents dis-
covered in Cambodge. This from the very beginning Lévi
had a vision of Indian history and culture not circumscribed
by the modern political delimitation of India. We thank-
fully remember the names of Burnouf and Bergaigne who
were responsible for this grand vision of Magna India which
radiates from every page of Lévi. Here Lévi proved a
worthy disciple of worthy masters and continued the grand
traditions of the French School of Indologists, ever expand-
ing the frontiers of the new science, ever widening the
horizon of Indian history.

Towards the end of the year 1885 the first paper
of Lévi was honoured with a place in the foremost
oriental journal of France: La Brhatkatha-Maf¥ari de
Ksemendra was published in Journal Asiatique (1885-86).
Lévi was appointed maitre des conferences of the Ecole des
Hautes Etudes on the retirement of Hauvette Besnault (1886).
To the conferences of this professor prodigy of twenty-three
were attracted men who have left their mark on many depart-
ments of research—men illustrious in the later history of
French scholarship—to mention among others, A. Meillet
the great philologist and A. Foucher the __ illustrious
writer on Buddhist art and archeology, now represent-
ing Indology in the French Academy. While Lévi was
thus continuing his work with a unique devotion and
passion, Bergaigne, who was a great lover of mountains
met his tragic death jn course of one of his excursions (1889).
SYLVAIN LEVI AND THE SCIENCE OF INDOLOGY 7

The loss of his beloved Guru was an, awful blow to the
youthful enthusiasm of Lévi. Everyone knew how he used
to adore his master. M. Emile Senart paid a_ visit
to Lévi to cheer him up. Gradually Lévi accepted this new
challenge of fate ina spirit at once characteristic and admir-
able. The master is gone but his work remains. He
devoted his whole energy to the perpetuation of that noble
work of interpreting India tu Europe. The Société Asiatique
requested Lévi to fill up the place of his late lamented
master in the Council (1889) and in 1890 we notice his second
paper—A bel Bergaigne et L’Indignisme (Revue Bleue, 1890)~
a noble tribute to the memory of a noble master.

In 1890 Lévi became a full-fledged Docteur és lettres
presenting two theses, one in Latin—Quid de Graecis
Veterum Indorum Monumenta Tradideriut (What About
Greece Ancient Indian Monuments conserved) and another
in French, Le Theatre Indien—which still stands as the most
authoritative treatise on Hindu drama. Almost at the same
period he was honoured with a place in Faculté des Lettres
of the University of Paris and was promoted to the rank of
the directeur adjoint of the Ecole des Hautes Etudes (1892-93)
working with brilliant pupils like Meillet, Finot, Foucher and
de La Vallée Poussin. The year 1894 witnessed the ap-
pointment of Lévi to the Chair of Sanskrit in the College de
France,*nearly 80 years after creation of the first French
Chair of Sanskrit with Chézy. Vide Lévi: L’entrée du
Sanskrit au College de France, (1932). This was the
crowning of hig academic career: A young man of thirty
started his works on Indology as the colleague of Darmes-
teter, Maspero and Gaston Paris.

This was undoubtedly a point of departure in the career
of Lévi. He was lecturing on Vedanta-Sara and Uttara-
Ramacarita, he was discussing the inscriptions of Piyadasi
and contributing valuable articles on India in the Grande
Encyclopedie. Not satisfied with these, he organised a class
for a systematic study of Chinese and Tibetan along with
Sanskrit and Pali texts under the direction of M. Specht. At
the same time he had been dreaming of the possibility of
8 KALIDAS NAG

founding a French School of Indology in Chandernagore and
in consultation with M. Guiéysse, the then minister of
Colonies, entrusted Foucher (in course of his first mission) to
enquire about the possibilities of such a foundation. The
scheme, however, matured when Lévi himself visited India
(1897-98) and laid indirectly the foundation of the Ecole
Francaise d’Extréme Orient with the help of Leon Bourgeois¢
(a former pupil of M. Bergaigne), the then Governor-General
of Indo-China.

Thus Greater India loomed large on the horizon of Lévi.
He had already published his first studies on the Buddha-
carita of Agvaghosa (JA., 1892) and soon discovered and
transliterated 150 stanzas of the hymns of Méatriceta. But
the most important event at this period is his friendship with
Edouard Chavannes, the great French Sinologist, through their
common friend of the Ecole Normale, M. Foucher. That
friendship was fruitful with several years of most im-
portant publications in collaboration—the earliest being the
It¢nerafes d’Ou-K’ong {JA., 1895). Within two years we
find Lévi sent on a mission to, the Extreme Orient (1897-98),
in course of which he visited India, Nepal, Indo-China and
Japan. This tour widened his sphere of research to such
an extent that in spite of his isolated monograph on La
Doctrine du Sacrifice dans les Brahmanas (1898). Lévi might
be said to have settled down on the broader and far more
complicated problems of extra-Indian Indology. On his
return from the East he was elevated to the rank of the
Director of the Ecoles des Hautes Etudes (1898), working with
brilliant young savants like Huber, Pelliot and Jules Bloch.
Soon after, the Bulletin of the Ecole Francaise d’Extréme
Orient was founded under the direction of Finot and the
T’oung Pao came under the editorship of Lévi's friend,
Chavannes, and these important journals evoked some of the
most original papers of Lévi on Sino-Indian culture. This is
the branch of study which the French scholars have made
their own. From the time of Abel Rémusat and
Stanislas Julien to that of Chavannes and Pelliot there
is a continuity of tradition in the parallel study of
SYLVAIN LEVI AND THE SCIENCE OF INDOLOGY 9

the documents of two of the oldest and yet living
nations of Asia. This study has revolutionised our con-
ception of Asiatic history. Lévi was the first Indologist
who brought his marvellous knowledge of Indian things
to bear on the elucidation of many intricate problems
of that forgotten history. His collaboration with Thavannes
and Meillet has more than mere academic significance; it
symbolises the inauguration of the comparative study of
Sino-Indian and Serindian, life and culture. But he was ever
close to his India. The same yea~ that he lectured (while
Bergson opened his inaugural lecture on Volonté in College
de France, 1907) on Dharmapada in its Sanskrit and Chinese
recensions, he lectured also on Sakuntala and while he dis-
cussed the Kotikarna Avadana in its Sanskrit, Chinese and
Tibetan versions, Lévi analysed the beauty and sublimity of
the Great Epics.

The year 1908 saw the maturity of his studies on the
History of Nepal in three grand volumes in the Annals of
the Musée Guimet. The very same year Pelliot started on
his mission of exploration in Central Asia. Just as the
archaeological mission of Chavannes threw a flood of light
on the history of ancient China, so Pelliot’s mission brought
to light a collection of MSS., the value of which we are just
beginning to realise. Lévi was the first to give his attention
to this rich collection. While busy editing the translating the
Satralamkara of Asanga and giving Tibetan lessons to young
savants like Bacot, Hackin, and Gauthiot, Prof. Lévi formed
a smaller seminar for an intensive study of the documents of
the Pelliot Mission (1910). In course of this investigations,
he found in his former pupil and friend M. Meillet a noble
collaborator and thus ensued his brilliant contribution to the
decipherment of the Tokharian, Sogdian and Koutchean
dialects of Central Asia. Thus for a while the greatest
living Indologist of France joined hands with her
greatest Sinologist Chavannes and her greatest living
Philologist Meillet. But the premature death of Chavannes
was a great blow to this momentous union. Lévi,
however, continued with Meillet to render signal service

2
10 KALIDAS NAG

to the study of the Central Asian languages. No wonder
Lévi was honoured with the place of the President of the
Société Linguistique of which Meillet was the prime mover
and also with the Presidentship of the Société Asiatique of
Paris, after the death of Emil Senart.

Apart from these prodigious activities in the line of
scholarship, Lévi was a lay worker of quite inexhaustible
energy. How many public institutions of France were
indebted to him for his unstinted service! Moreover he bore
the heavy burden of responsibility as the president elect
of the Alliance Israelite Universelle which has hundreds of
educational and philanthropic institutions in the old as well
as in the new world and which imposed upon him in the
last days the heavy task of succouring the thousands of
Jewish scholars expelled from Germany. Even at an
advanced age Lévi showed an enthusiasm and capacity
for work that was almost phenomenal. In India he
would be specially remembered because of his undertaking
the noble task of training generations of Indian scholars in
the science of which he was the accredited master. That
is why he was the first to be invited to occupy the seat of the
Acarya in a truly national institution like the ViSvabharati of
Rabindranath. Tagore joined hands with Lévi, the East
collaborated with the West for the cause of Truth and
Humanity and we expressed our hope in the language of
our poet Kalidasa that through this spiritual co-operation

“CPTI Sa wa”
each served as a purifying factor to the other.

Between 1921, when Sylvain Lévi visited India as the
first guest-professor of Vigvabharati, and the end of his career
(30th October, 1935), he left a record of research that may
fill the lives of several scholars. Organizing oriental studies
in the University of Strassbourg (since 1918) and Tibetan and
Chinese Studies at Santiniketan with brilliant Indian scholars
like Mm. Pandit Vidhusekhara Sastri, Pandit Kshitimohan
Sen and Prabodh Chandra Bagchi (1921-22) Lévi visited
Japan on his return trip, was nominated by Sir Ashutosh
Mookerjee, Reader of the University of Calcutta, President
SYLVAIN LEVI AND THE SCIENCE OF INDOLOGY wi

of the Second All-India Orientalists, Conference, Calcutta
(1921), corresponding member of the Imperial Academy
of Tokyo, a foreign member of the Russian Academy of
Sciences, a member of the governing body of the Institute
of Indian Civilisation (Paris University) and finally President
of the Société Asiatique. Invited by the Imperial Univer-
sities of Tokyo and Kyoto, Prof. Lévi visited Japan for the
second (1922-23) and third times (1926-28); lecturing on
Buddhism and helping in the completion of the Hobougirin,
or the Encyclopzedic Dictionary oi Buddhism, in collabora-
tion with eminent Japanese scholars like Dr. Takakusu,
Dr. Anesaki, Dr. Inoue, Prof. Sugiyama and _ others
(Vide The Young East, Vol. V. no. 4, Tokyo). Between
November, 1926, and May, 1928, he acted as the Director
of the Maison Franco-Japonaisie in Tokyo and on their
return trip through India, Prof. and Madame Lévi were
accorded grand receptions by the Greater India Society and
the Sociététe Indo-Latine, founded by his Indian pupils and
admirers who with the modest resources at their disposal are
trying for the last ten years to develop Greater Indian Studies
in India inspired by his example. Prof. Lévi visited the
Dutch East Indies in 1928 and made a selection of Hindu
texts from Bali recently published by the Gaekwad Oriental
Serie’. Another study on the Javanese Mahabharata was
commurftcated by him to the Golden Book of Tagore (1931)
published in honour of his old friend Rabindranath Tagore.
So his second and third visits to Nepal provoked him to
publish new texts of Vasubandhu (Viméatika and Trim-
gika as well as the variorum edition of the Maha-karma-
vibhanga and other valuable documents published by Ernest
Leroux (Paris) as well as by the Journal Asiatique to which he
was contributing for nearly half a century. The forthcoming
number of the Journal Asiatique will publish an exhaus-
tive and authoritative bibliography of his works by our
esteemed friend M. L. Renou. Meanwhile in this special
number of our Journal of the Greater India Society, we
publish bibliographic notes up to 1925 requesting our
readers to refer to the necrologie of Sylvain Lévi published
12 KALIDAS NAG

in the Journal Asiatique and other learned French
publications.

Series of studies are necessary to do justice to Lévi the
savant. The tentative bibliography of his works which we
publish below will suffice to demonstrate how almost every
branch of Indology feels the impress of his genius. In this
short article we have tried only to supply a commentary to
this bibliography for the convenience of Indian scholars.
We shall conclude by giving two extracts from Lévi's writings
illustrating his attitude towards Indian History. In 1890 he
concluded his article on Abel Bergaigne et I‘Indienisme with
these words: ‘From Persia to the Chinese Sea, from the
icy regions of Siberia to the islands of Java and Borneo, from
the Oceanea to Socotra, India has propagated her beliefs,
her genius, her tales and her civilization. She has left
indestructible imprints on one-fourth of the human race in
course of a long succession of centuries. She has the right
to reclaim, in universal history, the rank that ignorance has
refused her for a long time and to hold her place amongst
the great nations, summarising and symbolising the spirit of
humanity.’” As a pupil of the great Vedic scholar Bergaigne
Lévi has given us his studies on the Vedic rituals, as a master
teacher of the Sanskrit language he has given us a history
of the Hindu Drama, as an intellectual descendant of Burnouf
he has given us invaluable studies on Buddhisnf, as an
exponent of scientific method in historical composition he
has given us three splendid volumes on Nepal, as an audaci-
ous seeker of the relics of Indian genius outside India he
has given us the Sitralamkara of Asanga and the collation
-of Dharmapada texts—yet al] these are side issues and bye
products. Lévi the silent worker is probably greater than his
works. This is a fact which can only be attested by those who
had the privilege of knowing him intimately. By his life of
silent tapasyd dedicated to the resuscitation of Indian history
and culture, he gained a synthetic vision of that history rarely
found in writers on India. It is exactly here that Sylvain
Lévi stands as an inspiration and a dream for the young
schoo] of Indian Indologists whom he blessed unconsciously
SYLVAIN LEVI AND THE SCIENCE OF INDOLOGY 13

through his noble utterances on the mission of India in the
scheme of universal history: ‘The multiplicity of the
manifestations of Indian genius as well as their fundamental
unity gives India the right to figure on the first rank in the
history of civilised nations. Her civilisation, spontaneous
and original, unrolls itself in a continuous time acrss at least
thirty centuries, without interruption, without deviation.
Ceaselessly, in contact with foreign elements, which
threatened to strangle her, she persevered victoriously in
absorbing them, assimilating them and enriching herself with
them. Thus she has seen the Greeks, the Scythians, the
Afghans, the Mongols pass before her eyes in succession
and is regarding with indifference the Englishmen—confident
to pursue, under the accidents of the surface, the normal
course of her high destiny’’ (Lévi's article on ‘India’” in
the Grande Encyclopedie).

BIBLIOGRAPHY.
[ ABBREVIATIONS :—
JA,.—Journal A siatique.
BEFEO.—Bulletin de VEcole Frangaise d’ Extréme-
Orient.
TP.—T’oung Pao.
BEHE.—Bibliothéque d’ Ecole des Hautes Etudes.
CM6.—Conference de Musée Guimet].
1885—La Brhatkathamaiijari de Ksemendra—JA.
1886—La Brhatkathamaijari et Vetalapaficavimsati—JA.
1889—-Deux chapitres du Sarvadargana-samgraha : le systeme
Pa&gupata et le systeme Saiva—BEHE., Vol. 1.
Articles on Indian subjects contributed to the Grande
Encyclopedie :—
(a) Brahmanisme (b) Brahmoisme (c Calendrier
(d) Castes (ce) Hindouisme (f) Hiouen Tsang (g) Inde.
1890—Abel Bergaigne et I’Indianisme—Revue Bleue, Paris.
Le Theatre Indien—BEHE.
Quid de Grecis Veterum Indorum Monumenta Tradi-
derint (Latin thesis for the doctorate).
Notes sur I’Indes: Chronologie indienne—JA.
14 KALIDAS NAG

1891—Le Boudhisme et les Grecs: Revue de l’Histoire des
Religions, Paris.
La Grece et l’Indes: Revue des Etudes Grecques,
Paris (1891-1892).
1892—Science des Religions et Yes Religions de I'Inde
—Programme de IlEcole des Hautes, Science
Religieues.
Le Buddhacarita d’ Agvaghosa—JA.
1893—Un nouveau document sur le Milinda-pragna—
Comptes rendus de Il’Academie des Inscriptions,
Paris.
Un project de cartographie historique de I’ Indes—
Transactions of the 9th International Congress of
Orientalists, London.
Un Journaliste Indien: Benjamin Malabari—Revuc
Bleue.
1894 Note préliminaire sur Vinscription de Kui-yong-Koan
par Sylvain Lévi et Chavannes—JA.
Notes sur la chronologie du Nepal—JA.
1895—L’Iteneraire d’Ou-K’ ong par Chavannes et Lévi—JA.
Une poesie inconnue du roi Rarsa Siladitya—Actes du
dixieme Congrése des Orientalistes, Genéve.
Le Theatre Indien a Paris (le chariot de terre cuite—
Revue de Paris. ‘
1896—-Les Donations religieus des rois de Valabh®A—BEHE.
Notes sur diverses inscriptions de Piyadasi (with Rahula
Sitra)—JA.
Notes sur les Indo-Scythes—JA. (1896-1897).
Deux peuples méconnu (Caficika et Murunda).
Melange Charles de Harlez Leyden.
Translation of Wassilieff’s paper on Buddhism—Revue
de l’Histoire des Religions.
1898—La doctrine du Sacrifice dans les Brahmanas—BEHE.
1899—Rapport de M. Sylvain Lévi sur sa mission dans I’ Inde
et er Japon—Comptes rendus de I’ Academie des
Inscriptions et Belles Letters.
De Nagasaki &@ Moscow par la Siberice—Annales de
Geographie.
SYLVAIN LEVI AND THE SCIENCE OF INDOLOGY 15

1900—Les Missions de Wang Hieuen-Ts’e dans I'Inde—JA.
1902—Sur quelques terms employés dans les inscriptions des
Ksatrapas—JA.
Notes Chinoises sur Inde: (i) l’ecriture Kharostri et
son berceau;
»» (i) une version Chinoise du Bodhicc-yavatéra—
BEFEO.
1903—.,,(iii) la date de Candragomin—BEFEO.
La legende de Rama dans un avadana Chinois: Album
Kern (1903), Leyden.
1904—Le Pays de Kharostra et l’ecriture Kharostri—
BEFEO.
Anciennes inscriptions du Nepal—JA.
La Transmigration des ames—CMG,
The Transformation of Sanskrit Studies in course of the
19th century: Congress of Arts and Sciences, St.
Louis, 1904.
[French version published in Revue des Idées, 1906].
Le Samyuktagama Sanskrit et les feuillets Griinwedel—
TP. 1904.
1905—Le Dharmaégarira Sétra (avec M. Chavannes)—TP.
Documents sur le Bouddhisme dans l Asie Centrale—
BEFEO.
Criticism of Vincent Smith’s History of India (Oxford,
£905)—Journal des Savants, 1905.
1906—Des Préverbes chez Panini, satras |. 4, 80-83—~—
Memorie de la Socizte Linguistique, XIV.
1907—Anciennes Inscriptions du Nepal—JA.
Les Elements de formation du Divyavadana—TP.
La Formation religieuse de I’Inde Contemporaine—
CMG.
Mahayana Satralamkadra d’Asanga (Sanskrit text) Cham-
pion, Paris (1907).
1908—A svaghosa: Le Sitralamkara et ses sources—JA.
Le Nepal (3 vols.—Annales de Musée Guimet
(1905-1908).
Numismatique Hindou: Review of V. Smith’s Catalogue
of Coins in the Indian Museum—Journal des Savants.
16 KALIDAS NAG

L’original Chinoise du Sitra Tibetan sur la Grande
Ourse—TP.
1909—Les Saintes Ecritures du Bouddhisme—CMG.
1910—L’enseignement de Il’orientalisme en France—Revue
de Synthése Historique, Paris, 1910.
Textes Sanskrit de Touen-Houang—JA.
1911—Les Etudes Orientales: leurs lecons, leurs resultats—
CMG.
Compte rendu de la Valleé Poussin; Bouddhisme—
Gottengische Gelehrte Anzeigen, 1911.
Mahayana Satralamkara d’Asanga (Traduction), Paris,
I9II—BEHE.
Etudes sur les documents Tokhariens de la mission
Pelliot—JA.
1912—Wang Hiuen-tse et Kaniska—TP.
Un fragment Tokharien du Vinaya des Sarvastivadins—
JA.
L’ apramadavarga—etude sur les recensions des Dhamma-
pada—JA.
Observation sur une langue précanonique du Buddhisme
—JA.
Une legende du Karunapundarika en Tokharienne :
Melange Vilhelm Thomsen, 1912 (Leipzig).

Les noms de nombres en Tokharien B.—Memoire de la
Societe Lingistique, Paris, 1912. .
1913—Remarques sur les formes grammaticales de quelques

textes en Tokharien B par Lévi et Meillet. Memoire
de la Societe Linguistique, Paris, 1912.
Le Tokharien B langue de Koutcha—JA.
Les grandes hommes dans lhistoire de V'Inde—CMG.
1914—Autour du Baveru Jataka—Annuaire E, Hautes Etudes
(1913-14).
Central Asian Studies—Journal of the Royal Asiatic
Society (London).
1915—L’ Indianisme dans la Science Francaise, (Larousse,
Paris).
Le Catalague Geographique des Daksa dans lea
Mahamayiri.—] A.
x

SYLVAIN LEVI AND THE SCIENCE OF INDOLOGY \7

Sur la récitation primitive des textes Bouddhiques.—JA.
Quelques titres enigmatique dans a __hierachie
Bouddhique. (Lévi et Chavannes).—JA.
1916—Les Sieze Arhat protecteurs de Loi (avec Chavannes)—
J A.

Kuchean fragments edited by Sylvain Lévi in Hoernle’s
Manuscript Remains of Buddhist Literature in E.
Turkisthan (Oxford). Cf. also Tokharian Pratimokga
Fragment JRAS  (1913).—and Nilakenthadharani
JRAS. (1912).

#1917—Tato jayam udirayet—Bhandarkar Memorial Volume,
1917.
1918—Pour l’histoire du Ramayana—JA.
Une Renaissance juive en Palestine—Le Temps, Paris,
1918.
1919—Sphatartha: Abhidharmakoga-vyakhya of Yasomitra
with the collaboration of Prof. Stcherbatsky, Petro-
grad, 1918-19.
1920—Nala et Damauanti (Traduction), Paris.
192I—La part de l’ Indienisme dans I’ ceuvre de Chavannes
—Bulletin Archeologique due Museé Guimet.
_ Miscellaneous: Articles, reviews criticisms, etc. in
(a) Revue Critique, Paris, since 1885.
* (b) Revue d’Histoire des Religions.
1923—Pr&@Aryen et Pré-Dravidien dans I’Inde (JA.).
1925—Gonarda, le berceau du Gonardiya—Sir Asutosh
Memorial Volume, II] Calcutta. (1925).*

* Based on a paper published in the Modern Review, December,
1921, when Prof. Lévi, accompanied by his sahadharmini Madame Lévi
visited India with the invitation of Dr. Rabindranath Tagore inaugurating
the research department of Viéva Bharati.

The writer begs to record hie thanks in this connection to his
esteemed friend and satirtha Prof, Louis Renou, now the Director of the
Ecole des Hautes Etudes, for his kind courtesy in sending me advanced
proofs of his exhaustive bibliographical study on our common guru. It
reached me unfortunately too late to be utilized for my tribute prepared
for our Greater India Society Journal. But 1 recommend to all admirers

' of Prof. Lévi's works, the most exhaustive and upto date analysis of Prof.

Renou: Sylvain Lévi et son @uvre scientifique, to be published soon
in the Journal Asiatique, Paris.
Greater India and the work of Sylvain Levi

By J. Przyluski

In 1885, Sylvain Lévi, then aged twenty-two was
appointed lecturer at the ‘Ecole Pratique des Hautes
Etudes."’ The period was still a Golden Age for Vedic
studies. A generation of Indianists had attempted to retrace
the formation of the Indo-European religion through an
interpretation of the Veda according to the method of
comparative mythology. E. Senart and H. Kern had
endeavoured to explain by the same means the legend of
the Buddha. Sylvain Lévi, undecided at first as to the
course he should follow, turns resolutely from the Vedic
Period. He keeps to the strictly philological method only
and during the most productive years of his life, he con-
centrates his activity upon the period where the great Indian
epics were elaborated. Let us examine how such a decision
can be explained and justified.

In the last part of his article Pour I’historie du
Ramayana, Sylvain Lévi wrote: ‘“‘The great epica mark a
critical moment for the Indian soul; like the human hero of
the Bhagavad-gita, it was hesitating yet between the
exigencies of practical duty, and the seductions of inertia.’”*
Here lies already a psychological reason to take a special
interest in the epics.

Sylvain Lévi had a deep sense of the intercourse which
took place between India and the other Asiatic countries,
and he was one of the first to grasp the importance of a
great fact: the expansion of Indian civilization. And it is
close to the birth of the Christian era,—probably at the
origin of the epic age—that both the continental and the
naval expansion of India began. North-West, the invasion

of the Saka, then later on that of the Yue-chi, establish

} JA., janv. fév. 1918, p. 153.
J. PRZYLUSKI 19

new communications between India and Upper Asia, and
allow Buddhism to spread over the Iranian marches,
Turkestan and China; South, the development of the high-
sea trade draws the ships up to Indo-China and to the
-_East-Indies.

But other motives attracted Sylvain Lévi tcwards this
remarkably rich period. At the mere start of his career, he
had been won to the genius of ASvaghosa, and to the end
he was fascinated by the charm of this poet. Basing his
belief upon the fact that certain tales picture Aévaghosga in
the presence of Emperor Kaniska, Sylvain Lévi believed
that he could admit the synchronisin and decided to make
of the great poet a contemporary of the great king. Thus,
his admirations, his tastes, his historical preoccupations,
everything carried him back to the epic period.

But, in order to co-ordinate these views, some chrono-
logy became necessary. To build up one, Sylvain Lévi
makes use of two kinds of facts: the events which the texts
relate, and onomastics. Being offered but a meagre harvest
of historical events by the Sanskrit literature, his active
curlosity explores the foreign literatures, like the Chinese and
Tibetan texts. A\ll the results of these investigations do not
possess the same value. The knowledge that we gather
in the texts is often no more than a legendary and therefore
unreliable tradition. Comparisons between them confirm the
existence of a tradition, but do not prove its veracity.
Sylvain Lévi was led to think that Kanigka's reign began
some time before the Christian era? and that Agvaghosa
must have been his contemporary. The latter part of this
thesis ie uncertain; the former has not been confirmed by
the latest works upon the subject; to-day, almost every
historian places the reign of Kanigka in the second century
of the Christian era.°

But his handling of onomastics really displayed the great
talent of Sylvain Lévi, and his immense learning. His

2 Notes sur les Indo-Scythes, JA., 1897, I, If.
3 L. de Ia Vallée-Poussin, L'Inde au temps des Mauryas,
pp. 343-374,
20 GREATER INDIA AND THE WORK OF SYLVAIN LEVI

method is the following: by the onomastics of a text, he
determines, with all achievable precision, the geographical
and chronological horizon of its writer. Indian names have
changed often, because cities were deserted, or given a new
name, and because the populations replaced one another in
the more troubled periods. It is possible, therefore, to
determine by the names of the people and of the places
the approximate date of the text and of the events which
are mentioned in it. This method is based upon the follow-
ing proposition: India is the land of the present moment;
the old writers have never been attracted by historical
research; a writer would never ‘‘have been tempted to look
in the ashes of the past for the traces"’ of the small popula-
tions or the minor localities long disappeared.‘

By this method, Sylvain Lévi has tried to establish a
number of guiding-marks in the history of Indian literature,
and we must not forget that, in this past without a chrono-
logy, the historian’s most pressing task must be to determine
the age of the texts. He shows that our Ramayana, in its
many recensions, had its origin in an edition published
around the Christian era. He establishes that “if the
(yakga) list of the Mahamayiri answers through many con-
cording indications to the image of India as it was during
the 3 or 4 earlier centuries after Christ, the Mahabharata,
which resembles this list so closely, was given its®definitive
redaction about the same time.’"® Then, in 1925, he proves
in an article on Ptolémée, le Niddesa et la Brhatkatha, that
one of the most important texts in Pali discloses a state of
naval science ‘‘which is not likely to have existed in another
age than that of Ptclémy.’’ And he places in the two
earlier centuries of the present era the poet Gunadhya, who,
according to the words of Lacéte, “‘is the third of the epic
triad,’” and his Brhatkatha which ranks with the Ramayana
and the Mahabharata.’

4 JA., janv. fév. 1915, p. 121. 5 JA., 1918, I, p. 149.
6 JA., 1915, 1, p. 122

, @ Etudes Asiatiques, publiées & l'occasion du 25e anniversaire de
l'Ecole Frangaise d’Extréme-Orient, 1, p. 52.
J. PRZYLUSKI 21

In short, Sylvain Lévi has constantly traced the ways
for the future study of Greater India. But the exploration
remains unfinished, and the synthesis is yet to be made. If
we instal Kaniska in the second century A.D. we. must
perhaps ascribe to the influence of the Yue-chi some im-
portant features of a period particularly active in .he political,
economical and literary domains. It is the time of the Indo-
Scythian hegemony, and of the expansion of Buddhism.
Greater India is then in its full bloom, and the develop-
ment of the sea-trade, first observed by Pliny and the
Periplus, later on testified to by Ptolémy in his Geography,
takes place. During this period, several great diascévastes
set to work upon the old rhapsodies and build up the
monumental epics, whilst a poet of genius, Aévaghosa,
endows the legend of the Buddha with the prestige of his
unparalleled talent. One of the tasks of the near future
must be to study this period of Indian history, with the help
of all the resources that can be found in epigraphy and
archzeology, philology and onomastics, ethnology and the
science of religions.

Sylvain Lévi was a very learned man already when he
started upon the travelling career which was to give the last
maturity to his talent. He added then to his science of the
past tthe vision of the sites and of the things, the divination
of the paths which the merchants, the conquerors and the
apostles had followed. And it is chiefly upon notes and
studies made by him in Nepal, that he constructed his
valuable monograph in three volumes on this Himalayan
kingdom.

Like every crientalist in his time, Sylvain Lévi was
dazzled by the result of the excavations made in Central Asia
about the beginning of the century. So many monuments,
paintings and texts brought to light, allowed the hope of a
marked progress in science and stimulated the workers.
Sylvain Lévi undertook the task of deciphering an unknown
language, to which we give, with impropriety perhaps, the
name of ‘“‘Tokharian’’. The study of these documents
inspired his several publications, the most important of which
22 GREATER INDIA AND THE WORK OF SYLVAIN LEVI

for the history of Central Asia, is probably Le Tokharien B,
langue de Koutcha.®

His creative mind, his priceless gifts, have allowed
Sylvain Lévi to leave his personal mark in all the domains
where his indefatigable activity exerted itself. He formed
a great number of pupils; among those who promised to do
him the utmost credit, Ed. Huber and F. Lacote have
died early. Quite recently he had been deeply affected by
the loss of L. Finot, who had been one of his earlier
auditors, and who contributed more than anyone else to the
creation of the Indo-Chinese History. Both in Europe and
in Asia, however, many disciples prove to this day the
persistence and the richness of his influence.

8 JA., 1913, IL
Archaeological Explorations of the Neck
of the Khair Khaneh (near Kabul)

By Dr. J. Hackin

There has resulted the discovery of a ruined temple and
its accessories out of the excavations of 1934 on the eastern
slope of the neck of the Khair Khaneh' (12 kilometres to the
north-west of Kabul) by the French Archeological delega-
tion in Afghanistan.

The remains brought to light are situated at the end of
a rocky spur extending from west to east. This spur con-
nects itself with the mountains of Koh hazar-i-bagal com-
manding the plain of Wazirabad and representing the
northern section of the heights which dominate the neck of
Khair Khaneh and the route of Balkh which, in ancient days,
was the most important road of communication between
Central Asia and India.

The temple and its accessories face the plains of
Wazirabad. From the terrace of the sanctuary the view
extends right up to the mountains which surround the plains
towards the south, the south-east and the east where appears
the line of the mountains Chenari and Chakri. In a hollow
breach is seen the profile of a Jofty column crowned, in the
past, with a Dharmacakra, symbol of the Buddhist Law.

During the spring season, the Wazirabad depression is
largely inundated. The waters then invade the Qualehs or
fortified habitations and sometimes reach the villages of
Khoja, Bogra and Wazirabad. The brown masse of the
houses of Kabul appears further towards the south dominated
by the peaks of Sherpur and of Sirjah Sang. As soon as the
mist of the morning dissipates, one discerns without difficulty,
towards the base of Mt. Chakri, the rounded mass of the
stiipas of ‘‘Shevaki.’’ Such was the spectacle which had a

| Kotal-i-Khirs Khaneh (the neck of the Bear mansion) in old maps
Kotal-i-Khair Khaneh signifies the neck of the mansion of charity.
24 J. HACKIN

moving appeal for meditation and prayer for the guests of
that privileged sanctuary.

This archeeological site, which we shall presently des-
cribe, was first discovered by Mon. Jean Carl in course of an
exploration in February, 1934.

The ruined edifices had disappeared under the mass of
earth from the eastern slopes of the Koh hazar-i-bagal brought
by the torrential rains of the spring; as the result of that the
temple and its annexes appeared to observers under the as-
pect of hillocks, more or less round in form, (See figs. Nos.
3&6). The clear nuance of the clay mass on the top of those
tumuli must have attracted and then engrossed the attention
of Mon. Jean Carl. The first diggings of March, 1934, gave
definitely encouraging results. That is how a part of the
annexes (E.F.), of the temples A.B.C., and of one face of the
retaining wall (see fig. 1) was brought to light. Thick slabs of
schist superimposed, formed the material for the retaining
wall, consolidated here and there by the insertion of huge
blocks of schist whose exteriors were carefully dresesd.
That was the classical method of construction exemplified
by numerous remains of the ancient region of Jelalabad and
Kabul.

On securing the above results M. Jean Carl, assisted by
M. E. Bacquet, pursued the work methodically. The retain-
ing wall, delimiting the platform supporting the temple and
its annexes, was gradually unearthed. The platform was
reached by a staircase constructed on the southern face of
the retaining wall (the principal gate; see plan: figs. 1 & 4)
and a secondary entrance facing north. One passes then
through the inner court and thence by an inclined way one
reaches the terrace of the temple. Another means of access
was by a small staircase connecting the platform with the
terrace (see fig. 4). That terrace supporting the three temples
A.B.C. is really speaking the flat top of a more ancient edi-
fice (see fig. 1, I) with three room provided with a single
entrance. The temple was constructed of crude bricks of
large size disposed in layers of perfect regularity, each layer —
being marked by a very slight projection with reference to
GIS. 1935. Plate HI.

PLAN GENERAL DE
ETAT AC

A LUCrhuyt OF

4A STEER RUPE SEN _
TAM Lf Satu 2OLAIE *
fT SES Mux acaly-

IRS & Ere TAouveRRN @&
Le FHAGMENT DE SA-
Tut Ay PILAS MUS EN @
LA STATUE DEPQESEM

TANT LE ORMATIVG tn @

LOS OP PEQEMS PUAG-
ments “et @

Lh3 SARRES Cn e@

Les 3 SANCTUAIRES

VENTREE ‘
PRIMCIPALE.  _

VENTRER

ANCIEN SANCTUAIRE
COMALL OFT 4 fhocararir
tA Use ade if TROIS
SAM 7 UAIRES

EXPLORATIONS OF THE NECK OF THE KHAIR KHANEH — 25

the lower layer; that precaution was apparently due to the
desire of avoiding the percolation of water along the walls.
In the centre of the construction we find a room, with two
other rooms having a rectangular plan and very small dimen-
sions communicating with this central room (see fig. I, I). The
thickness of the partition walls should be noted. The big-
sized crude brick construction is very different from that
which is applied in the construction of the three temples
which stand on the roof terrace of the edifice referred to
above. That ancient edifice, once ceserted, came to be the
» object of systematic spoliation for stones, bricks and other
materials; so that it came to be the basement of the new
structures which appear in deeper tint on the reconstruction
effected by M. J. Carl (see figs. 3 & 4). That massive cons-
truction, with flat roof, “‘envelops’’ three independent cellules
so that the devotees could accomplish easily the rite, of
circumambulation (pradaksina) even within the edifice. The
three cellules, each provided with a separate entrance, are
displayed in facade, the thick walls retain as in the rest of the
edifice a substructure of blocks of schist, and each of
the cellules represents a square block of 5m 40 on the side.
The same square plan characterises the interior of the
cellules A & B (2m 95x2m 95); but the cellule C is
of lesser depth (2m 50) while the length is the same
(2m 95). In each of the cellules, deep into the wall, we find
a stone seat constructed by means of superimposed slabs of
schist; that disposition is changed here and there by the inser-
tion of blocks of curb-stones with dressed exterior acting as
headers. That stone seat is encased in slight projecting
slabs of schist carefully dressed and three quadrangular cavi-
ties are found in the stone seat, one in the centre and two on
either side of the central cavity. In those holes are fixed in
socket three statues of gods. For the three cellules therefore
there were nine statues. M. J. Car] discovered in unearthing
the stone seat of cellule A, a socket of white marble to which
were found still adhering two legs of a statue. A small statue
-representing a donor was found in the debris at the right
“Engle of the same cellule A. That statue had been detached
4
26 J. HACKIN

from the socket referred to before. The representation of
Siryya, the solar deity, and his acolytes (figs. | & 5) was dis-
covered in course of clearing of the corridor separating the
cellule B from the cellule C. No other statue has been re-
covered, only the fragments of the nimbus and the ornaments
have been found. Excepting a small fragment sculptured in
schist all other objects (see fig. 2) were of white marble of
very good quality.

The building which encircles the three cellules stands
against an edifice of massive proportions, very much damaged
by the action of inclement weather (see the reconstruction.
fig. 4). That construction reposes equally on the primitive
temple | referred to above; .certain sections of that temple
serve the purpose of the terrace to the western face of the
ruined edifice which we are going to discuss. A second room
of spacious dimensions provided with a lateral entrance
represents apparently a later superfluous addition; a closing
wall divides itself towards the northern face of the latter con-
struction. We are led to recognise the lodgings of the minis-
ters or workers of the temple in the buildings now ruined,
encircling the southern side, the eastern and a part of the
northern sides of the imner court. The _ out-houses
and the kitchens appear a little downward of the lodg-
ings occupying the eastern side. These annexes have all
their openings towards the east. From that side the retaining
wall is very much raised looking like a rampart. In the rooms
E. & F (fig. 1) lamps and jars of crude pottery have been dis-
covered. The jars bear a decoration of twisted cord in light
relief. Two billon coins with the figure of Kusano-Sassanide-
Malek Nap-ki (V-VI century A.D.) have been found in
room F.

We have finished so far the intra-mural groups of cons-
truction; temples and annexes. Now we should tackle the
annexes situated to the west and to the east of the group
comprised within the platform delimited by the retaining
wall. The construction G. nearest to the western face of
the principal group, externally appears as a cubic block.
pierced by a single entrance on the eastern face. That
Plate III

IS. 1936.

4

Fig.
EXPLORATIONS OF THE NECK OF THE KHAIR KHANEH 27

opening permits an access to the vestibule communicating
with two rooms. A stair-case to the left of the entrance
permits us to reach the roof level of the edifice. The
crude brick walls are constructed on a layer of huge
undressed stones having nothing in common with the
regular layers found at the base of the constructions
A.B.C. Possibly this building represents a later con-
struction independent of the principal group. The same ob-
servation might be applied to the quadrangular plinth, flank-
ed by angles of circular elements which appear to the west

«of the edifice G. This massive construction of layers of
irregularly disposed schist blocks does not exceed one metre
in its highest parts. The plan of the monument does not
invite any comparison with the styles already known, and it
is difficult for us to risk a hypothesis relating to the object
of its builders.

The annexe situated to the east of the principal group (I)
seems to be more interesting and the trial diggings of M. Carl
have revealed significant details: projection of a little enclos-
ing wall shows a massive construction apparently an open-air
altar. A methodical excavation was done under my direc-
tion in November, 1934. A plan of singular disposition was
completely recovered (fig. | and fig. 4); it refers to a small
wall of crude construction, earth being used in place of
mortar, with a mean, height of Om 50, with the length varying
between Om 70 and Om 80. That wall has a plan per-
ceptibly circular up to J.K. (diameter 29 metres). A slight
flattening appears in L-M marking in L the point of depar-
ture of a junction with the southern face of the altar. An
opening intervenes on the right side, corresponding to an
entrance. The massive construction O, apparently an altar,
(see fig. 1) is of rectangular plan, its west face being slightly
rounded. The schist plinth is carefully laid on a levelling
course and traces of the mortar still subsist on the south side,
a little digging in the middle of the upper part of the cons-

_ truction exposed the levelling course regularly superimposed
“by white ashes and earth mixed with carbonaceous ashes;
moreover human bones and skeletal remains: cranial bones,
28 J. HACKIN

shin bones (tibia), thigh bones were discovered. Perpendi-
cularly to the extremities of the eastern face of that ‘‘principal
altar’’ stand two massive constructions (P.Q.) of rectangular
plan prolonged to the extremity of their north and south faces
by a slight lowering down. The prolongation towards the
north, of the detachment of the structure Q may be
imputed to a later handling; the queer plan of that
annexe, so strange in the Afghan territory, forces us
to reserve our opinion. All the same, we do not
feel overbold to attribute to that enclosure a ritualistic aim;
we are even inclined to believe that to be the meeting place
of the general mass of devotees, while the three narrow cellules
containing the statues of the gods represented the private
retreat accessible only to the priests and to the privileged few.
The independent cellules enclosed by a structure with flat
roofing serving equally the purpose of the Pradaksina, repre-
sent a_ structural disposition permitting us to invoke
suggestive parallels in architecture. Let us take as
an example a small temple dedicated to Siva discovered
in January, 1920, near the village of Bhumara in the
Nagod state about 150 kilometres to the south-west of
Allahabad.? That little temple which, according to Mr. R. D.
Banerji belongs to the 5th century A.D. and according to
Sir John Marshall to the 7th century, is a characteristic
example of the Brahmanical architecture of the Gupta style.
Mr. Banerji observes that the temple of Bhumara is ‘‘exactly
similar to the Parvati temple at Nachna-Kuthara in the Ajay-
gadh State’’ (about 60 kilometres north-west of Bhumara).
The only difference between Nachna-Kuthara and Bhumara
is in this that the first temple is furnished with a higher storey
and that the second possesses two small miniature shrines on
either side of the staircase which leads to the platform. In
the case of both, the garbhagyha is enclosed in a room of
large dimensions and the space between the outer and the
inner walls represents the pradaksina-patha. We believe it

2 Vide R. D. Banerji: The temple of Siva at Bhumara, Memoirs.
of the Archeological Survey of India, No. 16, Calcutta, 1924.
qe€ “31a

— ATWvulan Lisnu0o4
adanood

Saavnivduvs

SUOWWOD
san san
aron7 sti winitid
Ww. i-ts fapseelss iJ a - nae ae Sane et ted
a7 = a a - 7 Sesrte a
=

whee et
pa ty 5 oat E

arvdisuiags
@aoia 4

“AL 2° ‘GE61 “SPOT
EXPLORATIONS OF THE NECK OF THE KHAIR KHANEH- 29

would be useful to quote exact figures in comparing the
dimensions of the three temples: I Nachna-Kuthara, I/
Bhumara® and ///] Khair Khaneh (Kabul). In the case of the
Kabul monument the dimensions given here are limited to a
single cellule.

External dimensions Internal dimensions

Nachna-Kuthara .... 4m 75 sq. 2m 45 sq.
Bhumara «+ 4m 65 sq. 2m 45 sq.
Khair Khaneh ... 5m 40 sq. 2m 95 sq.

We could extend these comparisons to other Gupta
temples and the dimensions recovered would rarely betray
any considerable departure from those given above. We
have observed that our comparitons refer only to a single
cellule; but it may be convenient to note that the type of
temple with three sanctuaries was not unknown in India.
Mr. R. D. Banerji mentions in fact at the beginning of his
report on the Siva temple of Bhumara, a Gupta temple “‘triple-
shrined"’ discovered at Deoguna in the Jasso state, not far
from Bhumara.

The comparisons between Khair Khaneh and Bhumara
are not limited to the architectural domain; their iconography
lends itself to suggestive relations which we shall discuss
after having examined in detail the principal finds of Khair
Khaneh.

The group in white marble represents the solar deity and
his acolytes. The god is seated in European style with legs
apart, the forearms reposing on the thigh, the hands are
broken above the wrists. The legs and the thighs appear to
be singularly reduced in dimension if one compares them

with the torso and with the head. The head alone re-

3 Cunningham, Archaeological Survey Reports, Vol. XXI,
pp. 95-97; Annual progress report of the Archaeological Survey of India,
Western Circle, for the year ending 31st March, 1919, pp. 60-61,
pms, 26-28, pl. XV.

4 Head and torso OM 122 Head only OM 048

Thighs MM 053 Legs MM 074
30 J. HACKIN

presents about one-fifth of the ensemble of the body, pro-
portions very decadent (canon of Polyclitus 1/7, and canon
of Lysippus 1/8 respectively) corresponding exactly with that
which we have already referred to in studying the Buddha
of the great miracle of Paitava (excavation of 1920). Vide
J. Hackin : L’oeuvre de la Délégation archéologique francaise
en Afghanistan; Tokyo, 1933, p. 17.

The physiognomy of the personage presents singular
details (fig. 6); the divergence of the arches of the ocular
sockets of an abnormal obliquity, gives to the low and re-
treating forehead a triangular form. The eyes even with
the head, very much apart, are “‘almond-shaped’’. The nose
is slightly curved, the mouth large and well designed, the
square chin is definitely projecting. The hair long and se-
parated by a middle parting, is arranged in short curls care-
fully dressed. The drooping curls cover the greater part of
the ears of which the lobes are visible, laden with ornaments.
The diadem is adjusted by means of a band partially orna-
mented with big crude gems of rectangular shape separated
by thin metal slips. On either side of the head, just where
the gem ornaments stop, the band forms into two puffed
knots; behind the head it is disposed in a cord ornament,
which deftly brings the two extremities together forming into
a plait and falling vertically along the back, marked by a
slight undulation. The diadem is composed of triangular
ornaments alternating with half-opened lotuses with five petals.
An arched ornament of pearls encloses the various elements
constituting the diadem. The vigorous torso is clad in a
tunic without any facing, with neck open. The lower part
of the tunic is largely covered by the hanging scarfs on the
hands of the God. One perceives however the border of
the tunic consisting of a row of pearls. In fact the cut of
the tunic is identical with that of the vestments of the acolytes;
the lower part rounded in form is characteristic. The orna-
ments consist of a necklace of big pearls, underlined by a
pendant necklace of double chain from which a relic is gus-
pended. The big rectangular gems disposed on a raised setting.
are placed vertically and are fixed on the circuitous band,
“A Ig GE61 STOF
EXPLORATIONS OF THE NECK OF THE KHAIR KHANEH _ 31

two, rows of pearls arranged on either side of the gems, the
border of pearls decorating the ends of the sleeves of the
tunic and the heavy bracelets—complete the sumptuous orna-
ments of the god. The girdle decorated with gems is- fixed
below the waist, its ends being in the form of a shell grooved
into a ring; we see it before the forearms and aguin covering
the end of the tunic. The boots remind one very well of those
worn to-day by the Uzbegs and the Turks of Central Asia.
The real boot of supple leather without sole adapts itself into
a footwear which one must re:nove before entering the
inner apartments. In our case these shoes are fastened to
the feet by means of a running ribbon fixed with a button-
less buckle, and the ends of the ribbon fall on either side of
the shoes. It may be noted that a row of pearls encircle the
upper part of the boot and the same ornament extends verti-
cally on the parting section in front of the boot corresponding
to the tuft of the tibia and is prolonged till the very extremities
of the shoes,

The two acolytes (fig. 5) stand in a singular attitude.
The lower part of the body suffers from a marked twisting
due to the oblique position of the torso one leaning towards
the right another to the left as attending deities. The weight
of the body hangs so heavily on the legs that the personages
exaggerate the leaning position by a strong incline of the head.
It would be convenient to remember specially that queer
posture of the acolytes in view of the comparisons which
will follow.

The attendant to the right possesses abundant hair: the
beard by the stylized meshes reminds us of the Gandhara
prescription; and Central Asia abounds in representations of
barbarians with moustaches and beards of that type. In
Central Asia the meshes of the beard affect an ornamental
treatment deriving definitely from those stylized meshes.
The occidental origin of that type is indisputable. The nose
is curved. The eyes are big but less so than those of the
god. The circular ear-pendants are decked with pearls.

whe personage wears a skull cap with earlets provided with
a button at the top. The tunic resembles that of the god
32 J. HACKIN

by virtue of its peculiar cut and its pearl lining. On the
shoulders hangs a light mantle whose ends are held by a ring
on the breast. The right arm is raised and the right hand
with closed fingers holds a sort of a button up to the shoulder
and its lower part is seen against the palm. The ieft hand
is gathered against the breast and holds a foliage of rectan-
gular form. The figure wears a skull cap and boots without
ornaments. The attendant to the left is beardless; his hair
treated in small curl reminds us of that of the god. The
headdress is a sort of a mitre-bonnet with earlets decked with
two lotuses. The vestments are exactly like those of the atten-
dant to the right. The left forearm of the personage rests on
a shield rounded at the top and provided with damier
(draught-board) decoration. The right hand holds a spear
whose iron point is adjusted on a circular ornament and is
decorated with fillet of foliage design.

The three personages stand on a cornice ormamented
with three fillets separated by two grooves. That entabla-
ture is carved in the middle with a slight reéntering (long:
OM 04; prof. OM OI). Inthat reentrant is placed the head of
a person with smooth (hair-less) visage decked with a turban.
The naked torso that is visible emerges out of the front of
a chariot sculptured in a queer fashion. That figure brandi-
shes a whip and holds firmly, in the left hand held up to the
waist, the reins restraining the two horses, sensikly represent-
ed in profile on either side of the conductor. It is convenient
to observe that the heads and the front feet of the horses are
directed towards the edge of the monument, the sculptor thus
avoiding the too fragile parts flung ahead. It is to be noted
that the horses are not yoked but in saddle accentuating there-
by the aberrant character of the representation. The saddle
is composed of a wooden frame garnished with leather with
quadrille decoration and provided with a carpet with small
square block designs on the border, and in case of the right
side horse a row of pearls and in that of the left side little
rectangular gems with diamond points. The saddle is
fastened with the aid of an abdominal belt with cheque ~d
decorations and maintained in position by the breast-piece
Plate V1

IGIS, 1936.

Ae

ee wiping’

5

Fig.
EXPLORATIONS OF THE NECK OF THE KHAIR KHANEH = 33

and the saddle-tie. The bridle is not in the form
of a halter but is of the type provided with a bit and
is decked with a tuft of horse-hair. The horses’ mane
is carefully dressed. Between the rump of the horses is
represented in relief a sort of a seat with octagonal s'de whose
object is difficult to explain, representing as it does an equally
singular figuration of the chariot wheel of the solar deity.
(Vide ch. 125 of the Matsya Purdna, verse 38—cited by
Nalini Kanta Bhattasali, Iconography of Buddhist and
Brahmanical sculptures in the Dacca Museum, Dacca, 1929,
pp. 161-162).

This description being complete, we are drawn toward
comparisons which should furnish us with the materials for
dating the monument. We note thai the tunic of the god and
of his attendants is of a known type. The bas reliefs of
Taq-i-Bostan show us three Sassanide kings dressed in robes
of similar cut, viz., Shapur II (309-379 A.D.); Ardashir
I] (379-383 A.D.) and Shapur III (383-388 A.D.). Shapur
I] and Shapur III are represented on the same monu-
ment, side by side. Ardashir [I] appears on a_ bas
relief in the company of Ormuz who accorded him
the investiture and of the god Mithra.° ‘’The costume,”
observes Prof. Herzfeld, ‘‘is no longer that of the third
century. A long robe descends to the knees but it is raised
to the left and to the right in such a manner that it resembles
a round apron.” That is the normal costume of the second
Sassanide period according to Prof. Herzfeld.* For my part
I do not consider that the long tunic is raised to the left
and to the right. If we apply ourselves to our monument on
which we may observe the scene more easily than on a
bas-relief, we see that all the details of dress lead us to this
result that the tunic is cut in such a way as to give that
singular but very useful form facilitating as much the move-

““§ E, Herzfeld, Am Tor von Asien, Berlin, 1920, pl. XXIX and
pl. XXXII: E. Herzfeld, Revue des Arts Asiatiques, Vol. Ill,
‘pp. 138-139; also G. Rawlinson, The Seventh Oriental Monarchy, p. 26}.

6 E. Herzfeld, R.A.A., Vol. Ul, pp. 138-139.

5
34 J. HACKIN

ment of the cavalier as of the men at his feet. It appears
certain that the use of that type of vestment was limited to
the reigns of Shapur II, Ardashir I] and Shapur III. We note
that the sleeve of the tunics worn by the two kings are sewn
with rows of pearls. The kings carry also the ornaments:
a necklace of pearls and braces decked with gems fixed on a
girdle highly raised, distinct from the belt. Our solar
deity has but one belt so that the braces decorated with
gems descend much lower; but the principle of the arrange-
ment remains the same. A good specimen for comparison
is furnished by the Hermitage Museum of Leningrad.’ It is
a specimen of jeweller's art of the Sassanide epoch: a silver
plate on which is delicately engraved a hunting scene. The
royal personage piercing a leopard with his sword
is no other than Shapur III (383-388 A.D.);_ the
king wears a tunic of the ‘‘apron type’’ and very
characteristically the border of the rounded lower part
of the dress is decorated with a row of pearls. The same
decoration is found at the extremities of the sleeves and is
developed equally on the middle part of the feet,° on the
leggings from the crest of the tibia to the middle part of the
extreme surface of the thigh. There is another element of
comparison which we have not yet pressed in our service : the
headdress. The simple details of the headgear worn by Shapur
Ill differentiate him from his predecessors and successors.
That is a headdress “‘formed on a flat crown ornamented by
a flower-work in the lobes.’’® Prof. Herzfeld has given an

7 Atlas des ustensiles antiques d’argent et d’or d’origine orientale
frouvée principalement dans les limites de Il’Empire Russe, St.
Petersburg, 1909 (en russe) pl. CXXII, no. 308.

8 An identical ornament is found on a fragment of a statue (feet
and a part of the right leg) figuring in the collection of the Museum of
Antiguities of the Ancient East in Istambul. The person represented is
an Aramaean prince of Assur (c. 3rd century A.D.). .

9 J. de Morgan, Manuel de Numismatique Orientale, fs. I], p. 315:
See also of the same author in the Treatise of Greek and Roman coins
of Babylon, JI]. Monnaies Orientales; tome | 3e -fascicule pl. LIX.
IGIS, 1936, Plate VII.

EXPLORATIONS OF THE NECK OF THE KHAIR KHANEH = 35

outline design of that crown in his book.!° We find therein
the flowers with five petals inscribed under the arch. The
crown of our god in Khair Khaneh carries also flowers with
five petals; we have therefore in both cases decorative
motifs distinctly related. The two crowns, that of the god and
of the king, are not only comparable on account of their
ornamentation, they present equally a connection ‘n forms,
only the crown of the god is a little smaller than that of
the king.

Our comparison bearing on the vestment and the head-
dress have revealed to us details permitting a sufficiently
close dating, the apron style tunic being current only in the
reigns of Shapur II, Ardashir I] and Shapur III, i.e., between
309 and 386 A.D. It is interesting to note that the coins of
Shapur II and his successors are specially abundant in Kabul
region. We should remember in that connection that the
depot of silver coins unearthed by M. J. Carl during his exca-
vation of Teppe Marandjan (2 kilometres to the east of Kabul)
contained nothing but the coins with the efhgies of Shapur
Il (338 pieces), Ardashir I] (24 pieces) and Shapur Ill (11
pieces). Those three reigns are placed just before the des-
tructive invasion of the White Huns (beginning of the 5th
century A.D.). Our group of monuments is certainly
anterior to that event.*

10 Am Tor von Asien, p. 61, fig. 14.
Translated by Dr. Kalidas Nag from the original French paper
of Mon. J. Hackin of the Musée Guimet, Paris, Director of the French
Archaeological Delegation in Afghanistan.
The Source of, and a Parallel to, Dionysius

on the Beautiful.

By Dr. Ananda K. Coomaraswamy

The second paragraph of Dionysius, De Divinis Nomini-
bus, IV. 5, translated in the Art Bulletin, XVII. pp. 33-34,
ig evidently derived, and partly verbatim, from Plato,
Phaedrus, 210-11. We give below in parallel columns the
words of Dionysius, and those of Plato (Jowett’s version) :

De Div. Nom.—''But the super-
beautiful is rightly called beauty
absolutely, both because the beauti-
ful that is in existing things ac-
cording to their several natures is
derived from it, and because it is
the cause of all things being in
harmony, and of _ illumination;
because, moreover, in the likeness
of light it sends forth to everything
the beautifying distributions of its
own fontal raying; and for that it
summons all things to itself. Hence
it is called kalos as gathering all
things several into one whole, and
pulcnram as at the same time most
beautiful and super-beautiful; ever
existent in one and the same mode,
and beautiful in one and the same
way; neither created nor destroyed,
nor increased nor diminished; nor
beautiful in one place or at one
time and ugly elsewhere or at
another time; nor beautiful in one
relation and ugly in another; nor
here but not there, as though it
might be beautiful for some and
not for others; but self-accordant
with itself and uniform with itself,
and always beautiful, and as the
fount of all beauty, in itself pre-
eminently possessed of beauty. For
in the simple and _ supernatural
nature of all things beautiful, all
beauty and all that is beautiful
have pre-existed uniformly in their

Phaedrus.—"‘He who has_ been
instructed thus far.........when he
comes to the end will suddenly
perceive @ nature of wondrous
beauty.........a nature which in the
first place is everlasting, not grow-
ing and decaying, or waxing and
waning; secondly, not fair in one
point of view and foul in another,
or at one time or in one relation
or at one place fair, at another
time or in another relation or in
another place foul, as if fair to
some and foul to others.........but
beauty absolute, separate, simple,
and everlasting, which without
diminution and without increase, or
any change, is imparted to the
ever-growing and perishing beauties
of all other things. He who from

these ascending......... using these as
steps only.........arrives at the notion
of absolute beauty, and at last

knows what the essence of beauty

is.
Also Cratylus, ‘“To have ‘called’

things useful is one and the same

thing as to speak of to kalon.’”
ANANDA K. COOMARASWAMY 37

Dionysius, and in accordance with him the whole Scholas-
tic tradition, takes for granted and argues from an identity
of the good, the beautiful, light, and truth in the ultimate
subject, i.e., in God. In this the Scholastic and Vedic for-
mulations are in perfect agreement. In the Reveda we are
confronted with a variety of terms which are so far pregnant
in their significance that it is often impossible to say that
any one of them is employed in a given context to denote a
single one of the meanings “‘good”’ (i.e., what is desirable,
appetible, or lovable), or ‘‘radiant.’” or ‘beautiful’ exclusive-
ly; we can only judge that in a given context one or other
of these values predominates, and translate accordingly.
Another series of terms connotes at one and the same time
“‘light"’ and ‘“‘sound’’; arc, for example means at the same
time to shine and/or intone, bha to shine is ultimately coin-
cident with bhan ‘‘to speak,’’ and svar or suf implies either
to ‘‘shine’’ or to ‘‘sound.’’ Siirya, the Sun, consubstantial
with Atman, “‘Spirit,’’ derives from the latter root (of which
the two forms can only artificially be distinguished), of which
we may say that the two meanings are indistinguishable in
Jaiminiya Upanisad Brahmana, Vl. 33. ‘“The Sun is sound;
therefore they say of the Sun ‘He proceeds resounding’ ”’
aditya svara ev@......... svara eti),?

From the Vedic point of view, the shining of the Super-
nal Sun in principio, and the utterance of the primordial
‘““word’’ are one and the same coincident ‘“‘event."" Through-
out the Vedic tradition, the Sun is identified with Truth
(satyam), In illustration of the use of arc may be cited RV.
I. 92. 2-3 ‘The Dawns sing (arcanti) like women skilled in
their tasks.”

It is not, however, our present intention to discuss at any
length the Vedic and traditional Indian terminology of the
beautiful. This has indeed already been done, so far as the
Reveda is concerned, by Oldenberg in an admirable mono-

1 Cf. Dante, Paradiso, X. 76, “So singing, those burning suns’” (s?
cantando, quegli ardenti soli).
38 ANANDA K. COOMARASWAMY

graph? which should be consulted by every student of India
aesthetics, and especially by those who are interested in the
comparison, of Indian with Scholastic aesthetic. Our present
purpose is rather to call attention to a more specific parallel
to the Platonic and Vedic tradition, which parallel occurs
in the Chandogya Upanisat, 1V. 15. We offer first a literal
translation, assuming the meaning ‘beautiful’ for vdma, and
append a brief discussion of this word and of the root bha
as employed in other contexts :

“They call this Spirit (atman), the Undying, Brahman,
the ‘Convent of the Beautiful’ (samyad-vadmah), because all
beautiful things (servdni...... vamani) convene (samyanti) in
it. In one, who understands this, likewise, all things beauti-
ful convene. And it is also ‘Beauty-bringer’ (vadma-nih),
because it brings all beautiful things. One who understands
this is likewise a bringer of all beautiful things. And it is
also ‘‘Light-bringer’’ (bhdma-nih) because it illuminates
(bhati) all the worlds. He who understands this likewise
illuminates all the worlds.”

With this may be compared Jaiminiya Upanisac
Brahmana, IV. 18. 6=Kena Upanigsat, 31: ‘It, Brahman, is
called ‘That Lovesome’ (tad-vana). As ‘That Lovesome’
It is to be adored. To one who understandeth this, all be-
ings’ love converges’ (samvanchanti).

Vama and vana in these passages derive from. van, to
*‘love”’ or “‘like’’ of which a verbal form occurs in —vdfichanti;
there is also no doubt close connection with vena, ‘‘loving,”’
etc., commonly an epithet of the Vedic Gandharva, Sun. and
Indra. Vdma is generally rendered by some such word as
“beautiful’’ or “‘lovely,’’ cf. such later usages as vdma-bhrii
‘having beautiful eye-brows,”’ and vama-netra ‘“‘with beauti-
ful eyes.’’ In the present context, indeed, Hume's rendering

2 Oldenberg, H., ‘‘Die verischen Wérter fur schén und Schénheit,
und das vedische Schéheitsgefiihl,”” Nachrichten v. d. K. Gesellschaft d.
Wissenschaften zu Géttingen, Berlin, 1918, Heft 1, pp. 35-71; an English
version was published in Ripam, No. 32, Calcutta, 1927, with the title
“Vedic words for ‘Beautiful’ and ‘Beauty’, and the Vedic sense of the
Beautiful.’
THE SOURCE OF DIONYSIUS ON THE BEAUTIFUL 39

of samyad-vama by ‘‘Loveliness-uniter’’ is better perhaps
than would be ‘‘Beauty-uniter,"’* inasmuch as “‘lovely’” im-
plies at the same time “‘beautiful’’ and the attractive quali-
ties of what is “‘lovely,”’ i.e., lovable; incidentally, this would
bring us even closer to Dionysius, who says that ‘“IThe good
is praised by sainted theologians as the beautiful
and as beauty; and as delight and the delectable;
and by whatever other befitting names are held to
imply the beautifying power or the attractive quali-
ties of beauty... The word vama is discussed by
Oldenberg, Ripam, loc. cit., p. 114, “It seems to me that
vama is used primarily to describe those things in the attain-
ment of which one rejoices or would wish to rejoice.”
Sankara, commenting on vamani in our Chandogya text
explains by vananiyani, sambhajaniyadni, gobhandni, i.e.,
“desirable things, things in which one would wish to parti-
cipate, beautiful things.’’ This introduction of the concept
of “‘participation’’ (root bhaj) is of particular interest in, con-
nection with Dionysius, who describes all partial beauties as
“participations,"” and calls all relatively beautiful things
“participants,"’ thus, ‘“‘The beautiful and beauty are
indivisible in their cause, which embraces All in One. In
existing things these are divided into ‘participations’ and
‘participants’; for we call ‘beautiful’, whatever participates
in beauty; and ‘beauty’, that participation in the beautifying
power which is the cause of all that is beautiful in things.”’
We shall see presently thet Sankara’s conception of vdma as
a quality to be “‘participated’’ in, is by no means peculiar
to himself, is an idea already clearly expressed in the Vedic
sources.

V ama in the Reveda is employed especially in connection
with the powers of Light. Agni, for example, is in this sense
*‘lovely"’ (vaéma) in RV. I. 164. 1. In I. 48. I, Dawn, often

3 “Uniter’’ is unsatisfactory in any case, samyat, like samgamana,
meaning rather ‘‘meeting place’’ than “cause of meeting,’” “‘unity’’ rather
than “‘uniter."’ The Atman or Brahman as samyad is not the “doer’’ of
anything; it is for the Wayfarer to “‘unite,"” or rather “‘reunite’’ manifold
things in one, thereby reaching his goal, which is the unity of all things.
40 ANANDA K. COOMARASWAMY

called the most glorious of lights, is said to ‘‘shine with love-
liness"’ (saha vadmena); and we may bear in mind the passage
regarding Dawn already cited, as to which Oldenberg re-
marks ‘‘the double meaning of arc ‘to shine’ and ‘to sing’,
leads to a comparison of the gleaming light of dawn to women
singing at their tasks... Vdma in the general sense of
“lovely”’ as explained above is something which is either
especially characteristic of the Powers of Light, or something
which it is most appropriate to offer to them. Thus we
find the prayer addressed to deities “‘May we obtain all
lovely things’ (vigva vamani dhimahi, V. 82. 6 and VIII. 22.
18). In this expression, dhimahi, glossed by Sayana
(dharayama and labhamahe, *‘may we hold, or get’’) is more
literally ‘“‘may we contemplate’’, and in this intellectual
sense, ‘‘know'’ and ‘‘possess’’, just as ‘Varuna knows all
things according to His speculation’’ (vigvam sa veda Varuno
yatha dhiya, RV. X. I1. 1); it is indeed just because things
are found, done, and made by speculation (dhi=dhydna),—
the word is often associated with kr, to ‘‘do”’ or ‘‘make,”’ e.g.,
IV. 1. 10, dhiya yad visve amrta akrnvan. **What the Immor-
tals have created by their speculation,’ X. 53, 6, patho......
dhiya krtan *‘paths made by contemplation’’, or with other
verbs of action, e.g., VIII. 24. 7, dhiyd no vrtra-hantama ‘‘best
slayer of the Dragon for us, by Thy speculation’’,—that so
much significance attaches to the well-known. prayer, RV.
Ill. 62. 10, tat savitur varenyam bhargo devasya dhimahi
dhiyo yo nah pracodayat, *‘May we behold that desirable
lustre of Angel Savity (the Sun), may He impel our specula-
tion’. That ‘‘desirable lustre’’ would be assuredly a
“lovely’’ (vama) thing; and here again it may be added that
while the primary meaning of bhargas is that of ‘“‘sparkle”’
or “‘lustre’” (as of fire), the word when adjectivally employed
in connection with speech means ‘‘scintillating’’, just as we
speak of a ‘‘sparkling’’ wit. This usage occurs in AV. VI.
69. 2 and IX. |. 19, where just as in RV. VIII. 22, 18 the
Aégvins are prayed to for ‘‘all lovely things’ (vigod vamdani
dhimahi) so here the Aévins, addressed specifically as ‘Lords
of beauty’’ (Subhaspati) are besought ‘“‘that I may speak
splendid (bhargasvatim in AV. VI. 69. 2, varcasvatim in IX.
THE SOURCE OF DIONYSIUS ON THE BEAUTIFUL 41

1. 19) words amongst the people."’ Cf. the primary sense of
Lat. claris, “‘illuminated,"’ claritatis in Scholastic aesthetic as
an indispensible quality of beauty (pulchritudo) and modem
“clear sky"’, to “*hear clearly’, and ‘‘understand clearly’’. In
the Vedic tradition, this association of radiance with beauty,
as virtually synonymous conceptions, occurs notably in con-
nection, with the word ri, which is discussed by Oldenberg,
loc. cit.

To return to vama: we have pointed out that vdma is a
quailty typically inherent in the Powers of Light, and accord-
ingly prayer is addressed to them to bestow, or share it out
(roots da and bhaj), thus RV. IV. 30 24 (addressed to the
Sun) ““Bestow whatever is most lovely’’ (vdmam-vamam...
dadatu, the dmredita being intensive), RV. III. 15.22. ‘‘May
we, as comrades of thine, O Indra, become participants in
what is lovely’’ (vamabhajah syam), and VI. 19. 10, ‘May we,
O Indra, in company with those who are most heroic, in
virtue of (Thy) deeds redoubtable, enjoy the lovely”’
(vansimahi vamam, glossed by Saéyana, vananiyam dhanam...
sambhajemahi, ‘‘may we have part in most desirable
riches’ ’).

As to vibhdati in our text, it is of course a common place
in RV. that Fire, Sun, or any aspect of Deity “‘illuminates”’
(vibhati) these worlds (e.g., II. 8. 4; V. 58. 9; VII. 9. 4; X. 6.
2; X. 121. 6). All that need to be emphasized here is that
the Light of the Supernal Sun, the ‘‘Only Light’’ (jyotir ekam,
RV. I. 93. 4), the ‘“‘Light of Lights’’ (jyotisam jyotih,
Brhadaranyaka Upanisat, IV. 4. 16), is an omniform and
image-bearing light (jyotir asi visvigvarapam, Vajasaneyi
Samhita, V. 25, saripena jyotisa, RV. X. 15. 3) which when
it shines “‘releeses all fair-forms’’ (vi§vd rapani pratimuficate,
RV. V. 81. 2). The significance of these expressions, in
which there is involved an exemplary concept of the relation
between the One and the Many, we have dealt with at greater
length in ‘“‘Vedic Exemplarism”’, to appear this year in the
James Haughton Woods Memorial Volume. For the present
we have said enough, perhaps, to show that our Chandogya
passage, interpreted with the help of related texts, presents

6
42 ANANDA K. COOMARASWAMY

a valid parallel m particular to the words of Dionysius, and in
general to the whole Platonic and Scholastic conception of an
absolute, immutable, and single Beauty or Loveliness in, which
all several goods and beauties inhere, and from which these
derive whatever in them is good or beautiful by way cf
participation’’ (bhdgem-bhagam, whence the designation of
the Distributor as bhaga, bhagavai, Who ‘“‘fills these worlds
by a division of Himself*’, G@tmanam vibhajya pirayati imdan
lokdn, Maitri Upanisat, VI. 26). We have inidcated further,
and have summarily traced throughout the Vedic tradition,
the concept of an identity in re of the good, the beautiful,
and the true; whether thought of as expressed in light and
visually apprehended, or as expressed in sound and appre-
hended by audition; the mode of apprehension and possession
being in either case primarily speculative.
Non-Aryan Elements in Indv-Aryan
By Prof. Suniti Kumar Chatterji, Calcutta University

The Dravidian substratum in Sanskrit has been discussed
by several scholars, and Kittel in his Kannada Dictionary
has given some 450 Sanskrit words with possible Dravidian
connexions. A few other words in both Sanskrit and Prakrit
and the Vernaculars have subsequently been suggested as
being of Dravidian origin by other scholars. Sylvain Lévi
(whose sudden and unexpected death a few weeks ago we
all mourn as an irreparable loss to Indology) and his pupils,
Jean Przyluski of Paris and Prabodh Chandra Bagchi of
Calcutta, and to some extent the present writer, suggested
a number of words in Indo-Aryan as_ being of Austric
(Kol or Munda, Mon-Khmer, etc.) origin and affinity. The
capital work in this line has so far been Przyluski’s. A
few more words are given below as indicating possible
cases of a substratum of Austric origin in Indo-Aryan.

[1]. Sanskrit krka-vdku = ‘cock’, ‘peacock’; cakra-vaka=
‘a kind of duck’; baka, vaka=‘crane’ ; kalavinka (Pali
karavika, kalavinka)=‘a kind of bird; the sparrow
(Vajasaneyi Samhita, Taittiriya Samhita, Manu, etc.),
the cuckoo (Karanda-vyttha); the white camara (late
Sanskrit)," etc.

The words krka-vaku and cakra-vaka are compounds,
the second element in both apparently being the same word,
or derivatives from the same root: vdku, vaka. Krka-vaku
can easily be explained as an onomatopoetic formation : ‘the
bird whose voice or call is krka’—where krka can be taken
to be an imitation of the cock’s crowing (krka=krk).
Vaku can be explained as a derivative from / vac= ‘speak’,
‘utter’, ‘recite’, ‘read’, ‘proclaim’, etc. Krka-vaku by itself
therefore can be taken as a native Aryan formation.

In the case of cakra-vaka, the derivation presents difh-
culties. Cakra-udka=‘wheel-voice’ appears to be un-
44 SUNITI KUMAR CHATTER]!

meaning. The word is found in the Rgveda. The word
vakd= ‘speaking’ occurs in Vedic literature, in the sense
of ‘chattering,’ ‘murmuring,’ ‘humming,’ and in this sense
jt is in the compound formation ciri-vaka= ‘cricket’, found
in the Manu-samhita. Probably krka-vaku= ‘lizard’, “chame-
leon’ (as opposed to the other sense of ‘cock’, *‘peacock’)
can be placed beside ciri-vdka,—krka-vaku being therefore
‘an animal which cries krka or krk,’ referring to the noise
of the house-lizard. Krka-vadku in the sense of ‘lizard’
however, is given as a late Sanskrit word in Monier
Williams, and is in all likelihood a wrong reading for krka-
lasa, the common word for ‘lizard or chameleon,’ found
from the Vajasaneyi Samhita, the Maitrayani Samhita, and
the Satapatha Brahmana onwards ; and in fact it is krka-lasa
which lives to the present day (cf. Bengali kaklas<{* kanka-
lasa, * kakka-ladsa=krka-lasa). The element ldsa in the
word is not satisfactorily explained, but, in the absence
of a better suggestion, we may connect it with lasa=
‘jumping, sporting, dancing, gambolling’ ; ldsa is unquestion-
ably the same word as rdsa= ‘the dance of the cowherds, in
which Krsna took part.’

Krka-vaku=‘cock, peacock,’ and cakra-vaka=‘a kind
of goose or duck’ will give better sense if we take their
second element, vaku, vaka, to be a word meaning ‘bird’
or ‘fowl,’ a word of Austric origin. In Skeat and Blagden’s
Comparative Vocabulary of the Aboriginal Dialects in
Vol. Il of their well-known work, Pagan Races of the Malay
Peninsula (London, 1906) we find a common Austro-Asiatic
word, occurring in the Sakai-Senoi dialects, in the following
forms (Vocabulary, F. 255): pitk, puk, pik, pok’, puk’,
pip, pup", pup, pok, pok, po, ra-pok, kedk, puk t-bé, pok
ibii’, ra-pok i-put, pig libi, etc. The basic form would
appear to be puk or pok; and with these forms, Chowra
Nikobar ta-fak ‘fowl’ has been compared.

The cock and peacock are birds native to South-Eastern
Asia, and it could be reasonably expected that words for
these would be borrowed in Indo-Aryan, along with other
NON-ARYAN ELEMENTS IN INDO-ARYAN 45

words which are names for special Indian flora and fauna.
The words for ‘fowl’ and ‘bird’ are inter-changeable in many
languages. And ‘bird’ in general can be restricted to a
‘special kind of bird."

It seems that an Austro-Asiatic word like pok or *bok
was current in the Gangetic plains among the speakers of
the Kol and other ‘Austric’ dialects, which were later
ousted by Indo-Aryan. This word, meaning ‘bird’ or ‘fowl,’
was specialised in Indo-Aryan to mean ‘crane, heron’ and
adopted into Sanskrit as baka, vaka. The old sense of
‘fowl’ is found in krka-vdku ‘cock, peacock’ =‘the krka or
crowing fowl’ where vdku is an extension of this pok, *bok,
*vok, but with possible contamination from the Aryan word
vaké <¥ vac.

Cakra-vaka: possibly the first element, cakra, is equally
of onomatopoetic origin. Either it may mean‘a bird whose
voice is like that of a (creaking) wheel’, or ‘a bird which
makes sound like—cakra’. This cakra may in itself be just
Sanskritisation of a popular cakka, indicating the quack or
cackling noise of the bird in question. We know that the Old
Indo-Aryan pronunciation of ¢ was something like k’ or ky
(i.e., the sound of the true palatal stop). Cakka=k’akka
can be taken as the old North-Indian way of noting down the
quack-quack of the goose or duck. The call of the cakra-vaka
duck, as observed by a European sportsman who has noted
its habits, sounds like kwanko kwanko, (as quoted in Dr.
Satya Charan Law's Bengali work Pakhir Katha or ‘the Story
of the Birds’, Ist edition, Calcutta, p. 137, footnote).

-Vaka, -vaku, baka, vaka would in this way be ex-
plained as an Austro-Asiatic word for ‘bird’ or ‘fowl,’ retain-
ing its general sense in the compound formations krka-vaku,
cakka-vaka, cakra-vadka, and developing the special sense of
‘a crane or heron’ in baka, vaka.

The Austro-Asiatic vaka is possibly found in another
IndowAryan word—Sanskrit kalavinka, Pali karavikd,
kalavinkad, which would appear to be identical with the
name of Agoka’s queen Kaluvaki. Ina note to Indian Culture
46 SUNITI KUMAR CHATTER]I

(a recent Oriental Journal published from Calcutta, under
the patronage of Dr. B.C. Law and edited by Dr. D. R.
Bhandarkar, Dr. B. M. Barua and Dr. B. C. Law), Vol.
I, no. I, July, 1934, pp. 122-123, Dr. B. M. Barua suggests
the identification of Asandhimitra (Asandhimitta), mentioned
in Buddhist literature as a queen of Aégoka, with Kaluvaki.
His ground for this identificationis a connection between the
mythical bird kalavinkd, or karavikd, and Asandhimitra and
the name Kaluvaki. In Asoka’s so-called Queen's Edict,
mention is made of Queen Kaluvakias his second queen
(dutiya devi), the mother of prince Tivara (Tivala-maté).
This is all that we know of her from Aéokan inscriptions.)
In the Pali texts, however, we find a story narrated which
prompts Dr. Barua, reasonably enough, to connect Asan-
dhimitra with Kaluvaki as being really the same person.
It is stated in the Sumangala-vilasini of Buddha-ghosa (II)
that Asandhimitta, a wife (devi, and not the chief queen,
aggamahesi) of Dhammiasoka ‘‘enquired of the King if there
was any creature the voice of which might be taken as the
exemplification of the voice of a Buddha. The reply was
that the desired creature was no other than the bird Karavika
or Kalavinka of the Himalayan region. She had a Karavika
of clear and sweet voice brought for her and was deeply
charmed by the demonstration successfully made in her
presence.” Dr. Barua further says: “‘In this legend of
Asandhimitta’s fondness for the bird Karavika there seems
to lurk a suggestion about the identity of Asandhimitta of
Buddhist literature with Kaluvaki of Agoka’s inscription.”

The name Kdluvaki is explained hy Dr. Barua as being
the same as Kdru-vdci, meaning ‘one of charming speech.’
Dr. Barua quotes Bihler’s view that Kaluvaki is a gotra
name, a similar name Karavaya or KGravaca being actually
found in the inscriptions,

The suggestion that Kdluvaki, Pali kalavinka, karavika
and Sanskrit kalavinka are connected seems to be quite
plausible. As to what this bird kalavinka-karavika was,
there is difference of opinion. The Pali form and the
NON-ARYAN ELEMENTS IN INDO-ARYAN 47

Pali texts do not identify it. In the Vedic texts and in the
Manu, as referred to by Monier Williams, the Sanskrit
word kalavinka means ‘a sparrow’; in the Buddhist text
the Karandavytha, it mieans ‘a cuckoo.’ The latter will
accord better with the story as in the Sumangala-vilasini.

Kaluvaki might very well be another form of Ralavinka,
karavikd, kalavinkad; and it probably meant a bird of sweet
sound in that case. While the Aryan origin of the word
cannot be taken serious objection to, we note that in the
Aéoka cycle another personality at least had a name which
was that of a bird: Agoka’s son Kurala or Kunala. K4luvaki
would be an older form, or a side-form, of kalavinka-kara-
vikd-kalavinkad. The story of queen Asandhimitta listening
to the karavinka bird from the Himalayas may itself
have later on arisen from the queen possessing (probably
among her sobriquets—or as a special name) the name of
the bird as her name as well. Cf. the names  Harita,
Suka, Baka, Kanka, Kraufica, etc. for men. Names of
birds for women are also known. This K4dluvaki=kala-
vinka etc., as a bird-name, at once suggests -vaka, -vdku in
cakra-vaka, krka-vaku. And we actually find in the Austro-
Asiatic dialects of the Malay Peninsula words like the
following: (Skeat and Blagden, B. 216A) kalobok= ‘bird’
(a doubtful word, probably connected with words for
‘butterfly’ given under B 482 quoted below); (B 221)
kalau, chim kalau=‘a special bird’ (chim is the generic
name for ‘bird’); (B 215) kawod, kawod, kawot, kawau,
kawau, kawaw, kawao, kuau, etc.=‘bird’ and (B 482)
kerbak, kerba, kerguap, k'lobok= ‘butterfly,’ Malay kuau
=‘argus pheasant.’

Kdluvaki from this point of view can be analysed as
kalu + vaki, the first element going with the Austro-Asiatic
word kalau=‘a special kind of bird’ (what this is
we are not told by Skeat and Blagden) and the generic
word for ‘bird’ or ‘fowl’ puk, pok, etc. (= baka, vaka).

This would be an explanation from the point of view of
Austro-Asiatic. A non-Aryan name of a bird with a
48 SUNITI KUMAR CHATTER]JI

sweet voice—this easily lent itself to confusion with Sanskrit
karu+ / vac—vaka, vdc. A similar thing has happened in
the case of other words—a foreign borrowing getting conta-
minated with native words or roots. The Indo-Aryan
kala = ‘sweet sounding<indistinct sounding,’ of an unknown
etymology, then had its way with the word, and gave rise
to forms with kala and kara. -Vika was the earlier form of
the nasalised -vinka, the Sanskrit suffix -ikd being probably
responsible for the modified form. Or -vika@ itself is an
easy modification of pak, pok, *bok, baka, vaka=‘bird.’
The Sanskrit word itself may have been, at least in the
compound kala-hamsa, of Austric origin=‘the goose kala,’
just as *kalu-vdka= ‘the bird kdlu or kdla.’

This derivation of K4luvaki is based on the assumption
of a connexion between kalavinka, etc., with this word, and
by itself it will not have a great plausibility. But taking
krka-vadku, cakra-vaka, Kaluvaki-kalavinka, and baka, vaka
all together, | think a case for an Austro-Asiatic word for
‘fowl, bird’ like *bok, being present in these Sanskrit words,
appears to be at least likely.

It may be questioned whether Garuda, the mythical
eagle who became the vehicle of Visnu (for whose name a
fanciful derivation has been suggested in the Mahabharata,
showing that the word struck the Aryan speakers as
foreign) is connected with kdlu as in Kaluvaki—although
Kittel and others suggested a more likely Dravidian affinity
for it, e.g-, Tamil kazu, kazuk ‘vulture’, ‘eagle’, and
Kannada gariga ‘a kind of bird.’

{2]. Sanskrit vakra, Prakrit vanka ‘crooked, bent,” New
Indo-Aryan base bak.

Vakra ‘crooked’ is derived from vak, vank ‘to go,
to roll,” which is connected with ¥/ vafic to move to and fro,
to go in a crooked way’ etc. The form is found in the
Atharva Veda. In the Middle Indo-Aryan, vakra>vakka
>*vanka takes up spontaneous nasalisation.

In Austro-Asiatic (Sakai) and Austronesian adaeaZe

Malay) we have (Sakai—Skeat and Blagden, B 177) pako’-
NON-ARYAN ELEMENTS IN INDO-ARYAN 49

pako’, beng-kong ‘bowed’, bengko, bingko ‘curvature’ =
Malay bengkoh; (Sakai) bakondo, bongko (bonko),
bungko= Malay bongkok ‘hunchback ed.’

The Austric word of words may have influenced the
Prakrit form by nasalising it, and so we have vanka instead
of vakka. In Bengali we have the word banrkuro=‘short,
hunchbacked,’ which may be preserving an echo of the
Austric word.

[3] The late Sanskrit lampha ‘a leap, a spring, a jump’
=Bengali (W. Bengali) laph, ‘leap,’ Nepali lappa=‘wrest-
ling.’

The word is of doubtful etymology. The Sabda-kalpa-
druma traces it toa Yranph, which is otherwise unknown.
Monier Williams compares it with jhampa, ‘jump,’ equally
unexplained.

We can compare Malay lompat=‘to leap,’ Sakai
ya’ lumped, ya-lomped, lompat", lampi ‘to jump.’

[4] Sanskrit kacchd, Bengali khos<*khaus ‘scab, itch.’
The word is found in Suéruta.

Cf. Sakai forms ga, gds, gas, gai", kosh, ché-kos, gas
manuk = ‘ring-worm; itch’; duul-gash ‘bad with the itch’ ;
Bahnar gach, gai=‘scab affecting young cattle’.

[5}) Late Sanskrit kambhira-maksika ‘a kind of fAly’(Vepa
solitarina), Bengali kumirkad, kumiriya pokd ‘a kind of beetle
which gathers mud for a nest to lay eggs in.’

Cf. (B 143) Sakai kémor, kémar, kemar ‘insect,’
kemuan, kemot" ‘white ant,’ kémai, kamai ‘worm’; Khmer
khmor (khmur) ‘black winged insect which gnaws wood,’
Bahnar kémét ‘moth,” Stieng kémiet ‘maggot,’ Mon thmd
‘beetle,’ khadmhd, chdma, chma ‘insect,’ Bahnar samot
‘bug,’ Achinese kamuwe ‘white ant.’
Sources of the Art of Sri-Vijaya

By Devaprasad Ghosh

Recent explorations in Sumatra, generally held to be the
seat of the ancient Indianized empire of Sri-Vijaya, have
yielded a surprising variety of antiquarian remains. They
are naturally attracting the attention of scholars interested in
Indonesian art and archaeology. Dr. Krom contributed a
very interesting paper’ on these finds and | tried to support
and supplement his observations in this connection.” Prof.
R. C. Majumdar has lately disagreed ‘‘with some of the
most important conclusions arrived at in these papers.’”®

Prof. Majumdar, for instance, thinks it premature to
conclude definitely that the enormous torso of a stone Buddha
image discovered in Palembang belongs to the Amaravati
school which was palpably influenced by the Hellenistic
technique of Gandhara, e.g., in the treatment of the drapery.
Of course our conclusion was mainly based on a study of the
characteristic feature of the drapery ‘showing prominent
folds.‘ Prof. Majumdar is “‘tolerably certain that the art of
Sri-Vijaya was the product of Gupta art."’ “‘If we remember,”
he proceeds, “that the colossal copper statue of Buddha at
Sultangunj in Bhagalpur district shows district folding lines of
drapery,* we need have no difficulty in referring both the stone
torso and the bronze images of Palembang to Gupta art.’”

tN. J. Krom, Antiquities of Palembang, Ann, Bibl. of Ind. Arch.,
1931, pp. 29-33.

2 D. P. Ghosh, Early Art of Sri-Vijaya JGIS., Vol. 1, No. 1,
pp. 31-38.

3 R. C. Majumdar, Origin of the Art of Sri-Vijaya, Journal of the
Indian Society of Oriental Art, June, 1935, pp. 75 78.

4 A. K. Coomaraswamy, History of Indian and Indonesian Art,
fig. 160.

5 R. C. Majumdar, Ll. c., p. 76.
SOURCES OF THE ART OF SRI-VIJAYA 5]

But any one who compares the Palembang and Sultangunj
Buddhas, will, I feel sure, be convinced that it is difficult to
conceive of two Buddhas figures more unlike each other.

We admit that some of the sculptures of Bharhut and
Bodh-Gaya, why even some of the earlier sculptures too,
have fold-lines on their drapery and “‘they are « ertainly not
attributable to Gandhara influence.’’ Still we must d.stinguish
between the folds of different schools of art. The Hellenistic
folds of Gandhara, whether natural or schematic, have a
volume of their own which seek; to hide and obscure the
body underneath, sometimes completely. Typical Indian
folds, on the other hand, associated with the ‘“‘wet drapery”
treatment whether indicated by mere incised lines on a flat
surface or by distinct ridges running in parallel curves, cling
tightly to the flesh. So they allow ample scope for the taper-
ing contour of the limbs to be fully revealed in all their
soft rounded smoothness. The two different styles can be
studied, side by side, in the early Mathura sculptures. A
mere glance at the Sultanganj Buddha folds will suffice to
demonstrate that they are scarcely real folds at all in the
Western sense of the term. They are nothing but few sweep-
ing incised parallel curves lightly scratched on the transparent
drapery which instead of covering the body emphasise the
naked glory of a clearly accentuated form.

The Palembang Buddha’ betrays the Amaravati techni-
que in several unquestioning ways. If we scrutinise the treat-
ment of the dress it will be found that broad heavy folds of
the robe, covering both the shoulders, reach down to the feet
in a regular succession of closely parallel semi-circular waves,
each fold demarcated by a sharp edge or crest. The ultimate
effect of the almost opaque sheet of drapery, with its pro-
minently displayed fold lines, undoubtedly reminiscent of
Gandhara, is to obstruct a full visual appreciation of the
delicate rendering of the details of the body. But the consi-
deration of the folds is certainly not the only characteristic

6 Annual Bibliography, 1931, pl. XI, ab; JGIS., Vol. I, No. I,
pl. I, a.
52 DEVAPRASAD GHOSH

feature which led us to ascribe the image to the Amaravati
school. It is also noteworthy that the broad heavy and
almost flat rendering of the massive body, accompanied by
a sense of rigidity and stiffness reflected in the erect frontal
pose, vertically upraised hem and straight hanging pleats
of the garment (note specially the sharp precise treatment
of the back)’ indicate the characteristic Amaravati style.®
The presence of the above features as well as the absence
of the peculiarly trough-like formation of the lower portion
of the apparel of all the standing Gupta Buddhas of Madhya-
dega, created by the arms holding the Sanghati a little away
from the body, renders the question of the Palembang
Buddha image ever being inspired by the classical Gupta
art-ideals of Sarnath or Mathura extremely problematical.
In this connection too, we cannot lightly brush aside the
fact that the earliest sculptures representing Buddha figures,
discovered in Burma, Siam, Campa, Fu-nan, Java and
Celebes, all belong to the Amaravati school.’ Is it not
natural, then, to seek traces of artistic ideals of that parti-
cular centre on admittedly the earliest find of Sri-Vijaya?
At this point we should like to make some observations
on the theory recently put forward by Dr. Bachhofer in the
pages of this Journal. He is of opinion “that Northern,
Western and Southern India represent the Buddha in different
attitudes and differently clad’’ and that “‘from about 150
A.D, a free-standing Buddha in Southern India invariably
has his right shoulder and arm bare, and carried his
Sanghati in the manner described above.”?® But we have
reasons to believe that this mode did not meet with ‘‘un-
checked approval in Amaravati.’’ Instances showing the
Buddha with both shoulders covered are not rare in
Amaravati in the 2nd century A.D." Our stone Buddha

7 Annual Bibliogrephy, 1931, pl. XI, b.

8 Coomaraswamy, |. c., figs. 137, 141.

9 JGIS., Vol. Il, No. 2, p. 123; Calcutta Review, February, 1931,
pp. 224-26.

10 JGIS., ibid., p. 124.

1} Coomaraswamy, |. c., figs. 137, 14).
SOURCES OF THE ART OF SRI-VIJAYA 53

image from Palembang also points to the contrary. Dr.
Bachhofer’s view that the Buddha continued to be presented
only with covered shoulders and arms in Northern India is
also to be accepted with some reservation. For, there are
some examples, at least, where the standing Buddha in
Northern India, is shown with the right shoulder and arm
bare, the robe closely drawn to the right side of the body
and hanging down loosely from the extended left fore-arm
in the so-called Western and South Indian fashion.’?

Now we come to the bronze figures of Palembang.
Here Dr. Majumdar seems to have misunderstood me. My
argument for correlating some of these bronze figureg to the
Pala art of Eastern India is based upon the study of the
sitting bronze image of Maitreya’® and not of the bronze
image of the standing Buddha, which has obvious Gupta
affinities. It still appears to me that the characteristic
features of the Maitreya, viz., the peculiar Jatamukufa, a
marked advance in the ornamental aspect, the undulating
lines of the Uttariya running across the breast, the fine
Upavita dangling loosely along the left side of the torso, the
nature of the jewellery and particularly the bowlike double
curves of waistline are seldom found in ‘‘what we are accus-
tomed to call the Gupta style in Sarnath and other parts
of Northern India prior to the seventh or eighth century
A.D.""* That these elements are peculiar to Post-Gupta
art will be evident from a study of some of the bronze
Bodhisattva figures lately recovered from Kurkihar, Bihar
belonging to the Pala period.’® Under the circumstances it
is dificult to agree with the view of Prof. Majumdar and
Dr. Bernet-Kempers that none of the bronze images from
Palembang betrays any Pala feature and that the art of
Sri-Vijaya was a product only of Gupta art. Even if we ‘get
rid of the prevailing conception that Sri-Vijaya and Java were

12, JISOA., December, 1934, pl. XXIX, 1.

13 Annual Bibliography, 1931, pl. X, ¢; JGIS., 11/2, pl. ll, 4.
14 JISOA., June, 1935, p. 76.

15 Ibid., December, 1934, pls. XXXIV, 4 and XXVIII, 2.
54 DEVAPRASAD GHOSH

closely connected by the political authority of the Sailendras’’
and admit the correctness of Prof. Majumdar’s recent theory
supported by Coedés ‘“‘that there are no reasonable grounds
to affirm that before the Ith century the kings of Sri-Vijaya
belonged to the Sailendra dynasty or that they reigned at
Sri-Vijaya’’!’, we see no insuperable difficulty in recognising
the influence of Pala art or of the magnificent Sailendra art
of its powerful Javanese neighbour upon the art of Sri-Vijaya.

Regarding the difference of opinion between Prof.
Majumdar and myself about the little bronze Buddha head
from Palembang,’’ I cannot but still adhere to the view that
in the absence of better and more illuminating specimens,
the bronze Buddha heads from Buddhapad near Bezwada,
discovered by Sewell, offer the nearest clue to its origin. Its
Southern [Indian kinship is suggested by a comparison with
the head of the standing bronze Buddha from S. Djember,
Java.

To Prof. Majumdar, my “‘view about the stone image
of Avalokitegvara'® is also hardly convincing."’ He is
inclined to see certain definite traits of Gupta art in it, toc,
although he has, unfortunately for us, failed to indicate those
particular traits. In the absence, however, of any precise
reference to the prototypes of this image which according
to him “‘are met with in so distant localities as Kalinga and
Kanheri,’’!® it is difficult to share his views. If we take into
account the severe treatment, flat summary modelling,
omission of all minor details and smooth immobile mass of
the figure of Avalokitegvara, it seems to illustrate the Sri-
vijaya interpretation of a Pallava icon, apparently modified
by some Javanese intrusions as suggested by Krom.?°

16 Ibid., June, 1935, p. 76.

17 Annual Bibliography, 1931, pl. X a and b;: JGIS., loc. cit.,
pl. H, 2, 3.

18 I[bid., pl. Xl, d; JGIS., loc. cit., pl. 1, 1.

19 JISOA., ibid., p. 77.

20 Annual Bibliography, 1931, p. 33.
SOURCES OF THE ART OF SRI-VIJAYA 55

It is stated that Krom and Bosch hold the view ‘‘that
Southern India exercised no influence of any importance on
the art of Sri-Vijaya.""”? It is, however, significant that the
recent interesting finds of three stone Saiva imagés at
Takuapa in the northern part of Malay Peninsula, ‘‘though
evidently made in the Peninsula, are fairly close to the
Pallava style of South India and appear to date from the
7th or 8th century.’’ Dr. Quaritch Wales, who explored the
region so admirably last year, nightly guesses that there is
some resemblance of these sculptures to the Gangadhara
group at Trichinopoly.?*. Such evidence of predominance
of Pallava art traditions in some of the earliest remains of
the northern province of the Sri-Vijaya empire (vide Ligor
inscription of 775 A.D.) may prove helpful in the reconstruc-
tion of the early art of Sri-Vijaya.?°

Only two definite periods may, according to Prof.
Majumdar, be postulated in the Indo-Javanese and Indo-
Sumatran art-traditions. ‘‘First, the earlier period during
which the Gupta influence was dominant, and secondly, the
later period, when as a result of intimate contact between
the Sailendras and the Palas, the Pala traditions gradually
made their influence felt.’"** My contention is that two other
forces, besids the above, both connected with South India,
should be reckoned in considering the formative stages of
the evolution of Indonesian art, viz., (1) the Andhra-Ikgvaku
element which certainly was the earliest to operate,”® followed
by (2) the Pallava-Calukya factor whose action is perceptible
almost simultaneously with the Gupta idiom. Broadly
speaking, Indo-Javanese and Indo-Sumatran art passed
through the same phases as the art of India as a whole and

21 JISOA., ibid., p. 77.

22 H. G. Q. Wales, A Newly-Explored Route of Ancient Indian
Cultural Expansion in Indian Arts and Letters, Vol. IX, No. J, p. 15,
pl. IV, 2-4.

23 To my mind the S. Indian component is not negligible in the
Javanese primitives too.

24 JISOA., p. 76,

25 Coomaraswamy, I. c., p. 157.
56 DEVAPRASAD GHOSH

not only of ‘‘Eastern India’’ as Prof. Majumdar would like
to put it.”

It is not our intention to minimise, in any way, the
influence of Gupta art upon the early art of Sri-Vijaya. Its
profound impression upon the aesthetic achievements of
Indonesia and Further India is both indelible and undeniable.
But in our opinion it was merely one of the outstanding
forces and not the only or even the earliest one to mould
the art of Sri-Vijaya. Further discoveries are required to
illuminate this complex but fascinating problem of Greater
Indian studies.

2% JISOA., p, 77.
The Kalinga Dynasty of Ceylon

By S. Paranavitana.

In the twelfth and thirteenth centuries, when Polonna-
ruva was the seat of government in Ceylon, there were
several kings, in this island, who claimed to belong to the
Kalinga royal family. A short account of these rulers might
be of some interest to the readers of this Journal.

From the earliest times, there seems to have been inter-
course between Kalinga and Ceylon. The ancestry of
Vijaya, the first king of Ceylon, is traced’, on the one hand,
to the Ksatriyas of Vanga and, on the other, to the then
ruling house of Kalinga; but we do not know how much of
really historical matter there is in the legends connected with
the colonisation of the island by the North Indian Aryans.
In the fourth century, the Tooth Relic of the Buddha was
brought to Ceylon from Dantapura in Kalmga;? and, at the
beginning of the seventh century, a king of Kalinga, defeated
by his enemies in warfare, is said to have taken refuge in a
Buddhist monastery of this island. The Sinhalese king
Mahinda IV (954-970 A.D.) married a princess from Kalinga
and she bore him a son who succeeded him on the throne.‘
The last king of Anurddhapura, Mahinda V (981-1017 A.D.)
seems to claim, in the only inscription that can be attributed
to him,’ to have been a scion of the Kalinga family. He, too,
was a son of Mahinda IV and it seems probable that his
mother was the Kalinga princess and that his right to be
called a member of the Kalinga family was through his
mother.

Mahavamsa, Chap. 6, vv. 1-2.

Ibid., Chap. 37, vv. 92-98.

dbid., Chap. 42, vv. 44-47.

Ibid., Chap. 54, vv. 9 and 5/7,

Epigraphia Zeylanica, Vol. IV, pp. 59 ff.

Ceylon Journal of Science, Section G, Vol. ll, pp. 238-239.

8

aunt Ww th —
58 S. PARANAVITANA

These connections with Kalinga, however, did not have
much influence on the subsequent course of the political
history of the island. And it was the matrimonial alliance
which Vijayabahu | (1058-1114) contracted with the royal
house of Kalinga that led to princes of that country seating
themselves on the Sinhalese throne. Vijayabahu's marriage
with a princess of Kalinga seems to have been dictated by
political considerations. It was this prince who freed Ceylon
from the domination of the Colas who held sway over the
greater part of the island for more than half a century be-
fore his accession. The Cola ruler of the time, Kulottunga, I,
was naturally inimical to Vijayabahu. Kalinga, too, was
invaded by the forces of Kulottutga and the common enmity
towards the Colas seems to have drawn together the
Sinhalese and the people of Kalinga, resulting in the
espousal by Vijayabahu of a princess of that country, named
Tilokasundari.? Three kinsmen of this princess, named
Madhukannava, Bhimaraja and Balakkara, are said to have
come and settled down in Ceylon. The younger sister cf
these three princes, named Sundari, became the consort of
Vikramabahu, the son of Vijayabahu and Tilokasundari.®
‘Madhukannava’ reminds us of ‘Madhu-kamarnnava’, a
name borne by some of the princes of the Ganga dynasty of
Kalinga, and it is possible that the princess who became
Vijayabahu’s queen was of that royal stock.

Vikramabahu (1116-1137), the son of Vijayabahu, as has
been stated, had a Kalinga princess as his consort. This
princess, named Sundari or Sundaramahadevi, has left an
inscription in a cave at a place called Dimbulagala (Udum-
baragiri). In it she records that she effected some repairs
to the cave and had it named, after the land of her birth,
Kalingu-lana “The Kalinga Cave.'® The son of Vikrama-
bahu and Sundaramahadevi was Gajabahu II, (1137-1153),
who is said, in the Mahavamsa, to have been a scion of the
Kalinga royal family. His claim to that lineage must have

7 Mahavamsa, Chap. 59, vv. 29-30.

8 Ibid., Chap. 59, vv. 46-49.
9 Epigraphia Zeylanica, Vol. 1], pp. 195-196.
THE KALINGA DYNASTY OF CEYLON 59

~

been through his mother and grand-mother and, incidentally,
proves that at this time the Sinhalese kings traced their des-
cent on the mother’s side.'° Gajabahu II does not seem to
have had any sons of his own and he is said to have invited
to his court foreign princes of a different faith, probably in-
tending one of them to succeed him on the throne.” It
seems probable that these princes were from Kalinga and
belonged to the Ganga family. For one of the princes of
Gajabahu’s court is said, in the chronicle, to have been
named Codaganga,’? and this is a rame which was common
among the Gangas of Kalinga. Thus, towards the end of
Gajabahu's reign, it appeared as if the throne of Ceylon
would pass to princes from Kalinga. But this was not yet to
be. Gajabahu’s partiality towards princes of foreign origin
made his cousin Parakramabahu, the virtually independent
ruler of a small principality in the island, proclaim war
against him. Gajabahu was defeated and made Parakrama-
bahu his heir. Thus the Kalinga influence in the island
received a temporary set-back.

Parakramabahu I (1153-1186) had no son to succeed
him and, as the other princes of the royal family had all
been exterminated in the civil wars which preceded his
accession, he found, towards the end of his reign, that there
was no suitable prince in Ceylon to succeed him. He,
therefore, invited a prince from Kalinga, named Vijayabahu,
who was a nephew of his, and brought him up in his palace.
This prince succeeded Parakramabahu as Vijayabahu II;
but he seems to have been unpopular, for on the day follow-
ing his accession there was a serious revolt against him. This
was quelled by a chieftain named Vijaya, but Vijayabahu II
came to a tragic end an year after, owing to a love intrigue
with the daughter of a cowherd. In an inscription of
Vijayabahu II, found at Polonnaruva,"* in which he records

10 Ceylon Journal of Science, Section G, Vol. Hl, pp. 235-236.

1). Mahavamsa, Chap. 70, vv. 53-54.

12 Ibid., Chap. 70, v. 238.

13 Epigraphia Zeylanica, Vol. Il, pp. 179-184. This record is our
main source of information for the reign of Vijayabahu II.
60 S. PARANAVITANA

the grants bestowed on the chieftain who was loyal to him
in the rebellion already mentioned, he thus recounts the cir-
cumstances in which he came to occupy the Sinhalese
throne: ‘His Majesty king Simha-bahu was born of the
Kalinga-Cakravarti family of the illustrious and very (proud
Simha race). His eldest son, king Vijaya, came to Lanka
from the Kalinga country, destroyed the yaksas, and making
the island habitable for men ruled it under one canopy of
dominion. From his lineage was descended His Majesty
Parakramabahu, the lord of the soil, who also brought the
island under his single sovereignty. This king desiring the
continuance of his dynasty in the future, sent emissaries to
Simhapura as previous kings had done, and had his bana
(nephew) brought over to Ceylon. Without delay he had
the prince invested with royal rank and brought him up,
making him skilful in the science of arms. Parakramabahu,
having thus made the kingdom possessed of a future ruler,
attained to heaven in course of time. Then, in accordance
with his wishes Vijayabahu was anointed king."!*

Vijayabahu II was succeeded by another prince from
Kalinga, named NigSamka Malla (1187-1196). He was sub-
king in the reign cf Vijayabahu II but his relationship to the
latter is not known. In one of his inscriptions Niésamka
Malla states that he was invited by the great king of the
island of Lanka, his senior kinsman, and came over to this
country." The reference here is most probably to
Vijayabahu II.

NiggSamka Malla, referred to in his inscriptions by the
fulsome epithets of Siri-Sangabo Kalinga Parakramabahu
Viraraja Niggamka Malla Apratimalla, was not only the
greatest of the Kalinga kings who ruled in Ceylon, but was
also one of the most notable among the long line of the
island's rulers. He is dismissed with only a scanty notice in
the Mahdvamsa—only nine verses (chap. 80, vv. 18-26)
being devoted to him in that chronicle—but, as if to

14 Epigraphia Zeylanica, Ibid., pp. 183-184.
15 Epigraphia Zeylanica, Vol. Hl, p. 115.
THE KALINGA DYNASTY OF CEYLON 6!

make up for this neglect of the chroniclers, NigSamka Malla
has left a large number of inscriptions’* in various parts of
the island. In fact, no other king of Ceylon can even
approach Nigsamka Malla in this respect. His inscriptions
also give us the main events of his brief reign of nine years.
Within this short period he accomplished a great deal.
A large number of the monuments, religious as well as se-
cular, which we see today at Polonnaruva owe their origin
to NigSamka Malla. He toured the whole country several
times, introducing reforms. and giving munificent largesses
to the people. He was a great patron of Buddhism and,
besides building monasteries and shrines, tried to remove the
corrupt practices which had crept into the sangha. He
claims to have undertaken a successful expedition to South
India and that this claim is not a mere boast is proved by
the discovery of an inscription of his at Ramesvaram.’’ He
opened roads, repaired irrigation works and introduced re-
forms into the administrative system. He was tolerant in his
religious beliefs and patronised Brahmanas as well as
Buddhist monks.

NigSamka Malla was a very vain-glorious prince and was
never wearied of recounting the greatness of himself, his
family and the achievements of his, magnified to a much
greater extent than they actually were. But in this he seems
to have had a purpose. He wanted to impress on his people
the wisdom of continuing the sovereignty of the island in the
Kalinga dynasty. For this purpose, he reiterates the fact that
he and his dynasty hailed from Simhapura in Kalinga which
he identifies with Simhapura, the home of Vijaya, the
first king of Ceylon, in spite of the fact that the latter, accord-
ing to the legends, was in Lata and not in Kalinga. He
emphasises the connection of Kalinga with the Vijayan
legend and thus tries to make out that the sovereignty of
Ceylon legitimately belonged to members of the Kalinga

16 Epigraphia Zeylanica, Vol. Il, pp. 70-178, contains a number of
inscfiptions of this king. The information given in this paper about the
king has been culled mainly from these records.

17 Ceylon Journal of Science, Section G, Vol. II, p. 105.
62 S. PARANAVITANA

dynasty. He inveighs against the members of the Govi-
vamsa, the aristocratic clan of the Sinhalese, lays down
that on no account should any one of them be elected as king
and exhorts his people not to raise to the throne of Lanka
princes from the Cola or the Pandya country, who were not
Buddhists.

NigSamka Malla, in his inscriptions, tells us of his birth
and parentage. He was born in Simhapura in Kalinga and
his parents were Jayagopa-raja and Parvatimahadevi. His
chief queen was named Kalinga Subhadra and the second
queen was Kalyana-mahadevi of the Ganga family.
Nigsamka Malla was very fond of flaunting his Kalinga
origin. In his coins, the legend reads, Kalinga Lamkeja(ga).”*
Polonnaruva was named Kalinga-pura by him, and there
were parks called Kalingodyana and Kalingavana in that
city.
So far as is known to me, there is no reference in Indian
documents to NigSamka Malla or any other member of his
family. But Simhapura, their place of origin, is mentioned
in copper-plate grants of the kings of Orissa. The Brihat-
proshtha grant of Umavarman, the lord of Kalinga, was issued
from Simhapura.’® Perhaps, Niésamka Malla and other
Kalinga princes who ruled Ceylon did not belong to the ruling
house of Orissa, but the fact that one of NisSamka Malla’s
queens was of the Ganga family suggests that he was re-
lated to that dynasty which at that time possessed the
sovereignty of Kalinga.

Niggamka Malla’s death was followed by a period of
great confusion. His son, Virabahu, was murdered on the
very day of his accession and the throne was given to
Niggamka Malla’s younger brother, Vikramabahu, who was
allowed to hold the sceptre for three months only. He was
ousted by Codaganga, a nephew of Nissamka Malla.
Codaganga himself came to a sad end, for, nine months
after his accession, his eyes were put out by one of his gene-

18 Codrington, Ceylon Coins and Currency, p. 68.
19 Epigraphia Zeylanica, Vol. XII, p. 6.
THE KALINGA DYNASTY OF CEYLON 63

rals and the throne was occupied for three years by Lilavati,
queen of Parakramabahu. At the end of this period another
Kalinga prince, by name Sahasamalla, ruied at Polonna-
ruva.2? From an inscription of this monarch found at
Polonnaruva,”? we learn that Sahasamalla was a half-brother
of Niggamka Malla, his mother being Loka-mahadevi, and
that he himself was born at Simhapura. In the confusion
which prevailed after Niggamka Malla’s death, two Sinhalese
dignitaries sent an envoy named Mallikarjuna to the
Kalinga country and invited Sahasamalla to Ceylon. He
accepted the invitation, but before his partisans could
arrange matters to give him a favourable reception, he had
to spend two years at a sea-port named Kangakonda
(Gangai-konda) in the Cola country. Ultimately, Sahasa-
malla arrived safely in Ceylon and was anointed king on
Wednesday, the 23rd of August, 1200 A.D.

Sahasamalla’s reign was also a brief one. He had to
yield his place in favour of Kalyadnavati, the queen of
NigSamka Malla, who could remain on the throne for six
years—a creditable performance for that period in Ceylon.
During the next six years, there were no less than seven
revolutions accompanied, more often than not, by violence
and murder. One of the princes who occupied the throne
for seventeen days in 1209 A.D., during this troubled period,
was Anikanga, and he appears, from his name, to have been
of Kalinga origin. In the following year, a prince named
Lokegvara ruled for nine months and, from an inscription
which he has left,?? it is known that he belonged to the
Kalinga dynasty; but we do not know what his relation to
his predecessors was.

The last Kalinga prince to rule in Ceylon was Magha,
who, in 1913 A.D., invaded the island with an army of
mercenaries from South India, put to death Parakrama Pandu

20 -For NisSamka Malla’s successors, see Mahavamsa, Chap. 80,
vy. 27 ff,

21 Epigraphia Zeylanica, Vol. Ul, pp. 219-229.

22 Epigraphia Zeylanica, Vol. IV, pp. 83-88.
64 S. PARANAVITANA

who was then king at Polonnaruva, and started a veritable
reign of terror which lasted for twenty-one years. Magha
was a great contrast to NigSamka Malla. While Niéémka
Malla tried to establish his dynasty in Ceylon by methods of
conciliation and propaganda, Magha tried to do so by stark
terrorism. He was such a cruel oppressor that the chroni-
clers have pictured him as a scourge sent by heaven to
punish the people of Ceylon for their sins. He ravaged the
northern part of the island, which was under his rule, so
efficiently that when at last a Sinhalese prince was able to
rout him and send his forces back to India, the districts
around Anuradhapura and Polonnaruva, which were the
most flourishing in Ceylon for a millennium and half, were in
such a state of desolation that the political centre of gravity
was shifted southwards. These districts never recovered
from the effects of Magha’s oppression.
A Date of Isanavarman Il: The Inscription of

Tuol Kul (Province of Mong, Cambodia)
By Dr. George Coedés

We possess very few inscriptions of the two sons of
Yagovarman who are known only from the inscriptions of
their successors.

Of his eldest son Hargavarman I, we have:

(1) The inscription of Vat Cakret.? The donation
mentioned in the Sanskrit text is not dated and there is
nothing to show that the date 824 Saka, with which begins
the very mutilated Khmeér text, refers to the same object.’

(2) The inscription of Taol Pei of 844 Saka; if, however,
the king mentioned immediately after the date is Harsga-
varman which is not absolutely certain.?

Of the younger son Iéanavarman I], we have not yet
found any inscription. Of the contemporary texts of his

reign we have only the first inscription of Vat Thipdei
emanating from Sikhagiva, dcdrya in the service of Yaéo-
varman and his two sons.‘ It mentions a foundation made
by this savant in 832 Saka, but this date does not necessarily
fall within the reign of the last king mentioned in the text,
i.e., of Ianavarman IJ. In fact it is followed by the mention
of two other foundations, which are perhaps later and the
inscription might have been engraved several years after
832 Saka. These meagre data do not permit us to establish
the chronology of the reigns of Harsavarman | and Iéana-
varman I].

An inscription found in July 1935 at Taol Kul in the
province of Méng furnishes us a precise date for the reign

1 Inv. des ins. du Cambodge, K. 6}, ef. ISCC., LXIIl.
2 Aymonier, Cambodge, I, p. 237.

3 BEFEO., XXXI, p. 17.

4 Mel. S, Lévi, p. 214.

9
66 DR. GEORGE CEDES

of [Sanavarman I]. Written in 890 Saka (968 A.D.), it
mentions the previous facts in connection with a foundation
and refers to an address (nivedana) presented in 847 Saka
(925 A.D.) to the king who is gone to Paramarudraloka
i.e., I8anavarman I]. If my interpretation of the inscription
of Tiiol Pei is exact and if Hargavarman I still reigned in
844 Saka (922 A.D.), we should place the advent of Isana-
varman II between 844 and 847 Saka (922-925 A.D.).

The certain existence of ISanavarman II on the throne
in 847 Saka (925 A.D.) gives a new datum to the problem
of the date of his successor Jayavarman IV. If this last is
properly the author of the inscription of Prasat Thom of
843 Saka (921 A.D.), it must be admitted (as | proposed) that
Jayavarman IV was proclaimed king at Chok Gargyar (Koh
Ker) even during the lifetime of his nephew. __
On the Oid-Javanese Korawasrama.
By J. L. Swellengrebel

There exist several works in old-Javanese literature which
bear a close relationship to the classical Sanskrit literature.
The Kakawins are Kawyas by their form and content, as their
name indicates. Except for the language, works like the
Arjuna-Wiwaha or the Bhdrata-Yuddha, both of the Maha-
bharata-cycle, might have been written by Bharawi or Magha,
just as well as by Mpu Kanwa or Mpu Sedah. It is probable
that this kind of old-Javanese literature originated at the
courts of the Hindu-Javanese rulers, which are known to have
been the strongholds of classical Indian cultural influence in
Java.

Besides literature of this description there are other
works, however, which deviate on many points from the
Mahabharata-cycle although they still belong to this group.
The lineage, the previous history and some of the ad-
ventures of the heroes are different, the conceptions regarding
the gods show peculiar features of their own, etc. An
interesting sample of this kind is the Korawaérama,' a work
resembling the Puranas, elaborated on a ‘‘canvas’’ relating to
the Pandawas and Kaurawas.

In the following lines | shall try to give a general idea of
this work, paying special attention to the data referring to the
Pandawas and Kaurawas. The second part of this paper
gives a detailed summary.

When the great strife had come to an end, Yudhisthira
solicited the help of Wyasa, the grand-father of both the
Pandawas and Kaurawas, with the object of restoring the
Kaurawas to life. Wyasa consents to this and prophesies

1 Cf. H. N. v. d. Tuuk, Kewi Balineesch Nederlandsch Woorden-
boek, II, p. 92; Th. Pigeaud, De Tanta Panggelaran, passim, and a
summary, pp. 329-40; H. B. Sarkar, Indian influences on the Literature of
Java and Bali, pp. 282-84.
68 J. L. SWELLENGREBEL

that the Kaurawas will attain to kingship after a time of
severe penance, and that the Pandawas will be brought down
to the state of candadlas.

With the support of Narada whom Brhaspati had despatch-
ed to the earth for this special purpose, Wyasa brings the
Kaurawas and their army back to life. When this has been
accomplished, Bhisma—in accordance with a heavenly voice
—advises the newly revived Kaurawas to proceed to
Ramaparagu? for the purpose of being instructed by him.
Wyasa benefits them by his views on the practice of tapas.
The Pandawas are likewise advised by Wyasa regarding the
government they will exercise and finally Wyadsa returns to
his aérama. .

King Dhrtarastra begs Yudhisthira to teach him and is
instructed by him in a variety of subjects regarding mytho-
logy, cosmology, asceticism, etc. Subsequently Dhytarastra
visits Ramaparasu after which he devotes himself to tapas
and yoga, following therein his brother Pandu’s example.

As has been stated above the Kaurawas likewise visit
Ramaparagu. He answers Duryodhana’s and Karna’s ques-
tions, which are of the same kind as those of Dhrtarastra and
he assigns to everyone of them a place wherein to do penance.
Duryodhana, Sakuni, Bhagadatta, Duhsdsana and Kama—
the last one after some further instruction regarding the
swarga and patala—all endeavour to win the favour of the
gods of the four regions and the centre, viz., Brahma, Maha-
dewa, Wisnu, Siwa and Aditya,’ with the purpose of obtaining
their permission to destroy the Pandawas.

The answer they receive is essentially the same in every
case. In one case it runs like this: ‘‘You ask permission
to kill the Pandawas? But it is impossible that the Pandavas
should die, for they are like gods. They are the lingga
and the pragasti of men. They constitute the standard‘

2 This reversion of Skr. Paragurama occurs invariably in the
Korawaérama.

3 Cf. the classification given below in the summary.

4 This must be the meaning. The text has tatali, from
Javanese tali, i.e,, string.
ON THE OLD-JAVANESE KORAWASRAMA 69

regulating the judge's verdict. For the Pandawas almost
represent the body of mankind: Yudhisthira stands for the
soul (atman) of mankind, Bhima stands for the breath of
mankind, Arjuna stands for the shape (rapa) of mankind,
Nakula stands for the sanggama(>) of mankind, Sahadewa
stands for the longevity of mankind. The Kaurawas on the
other hand are the chamkdra of humanity. They stand for
opulence, gold, jewels, cattle, food and great prosperity. It
is beyond your power to kill the Pandawas. But I allow you
to degrade them later on to the stage of asfacandala.”’

This for instance is the answer received by Karna who
then turns to Duryodhana and begins a conversation which,
however, is cut short by the Korawaérama abruptly ending
at this juncture.

Consequently, this peculiar ‘‘sequel’’ to the Maha-
bharata, depicts the Pandawas and Kaurawas as two rival
groups of persons, who are cousins to each other and who
live in a constant struggle as contending forces, keeping each
other in balance. Both may be said to represent parts of
the cosmos. ‘They are the world’s contents’’ as the MS.
has it somewhere. Moreover they represent certain parts
of man and some aspects of human society, as was brought
out quite definitely in the above quotation. Both are indis-
pensable to each other—'‘the Pandawas are the life of the
Kaurawas......... "* and to the existence of the world and
‘without the Kaurawas the world is unsteady......... "OA
controversial relationship between two groups of beings as
described above is well known in Ethnology and is termed
a phratry-contrast. Pigeaud* pointed out already that this
contrast reminds one of the bipartition which is one of the
fundamental facts of the Javanese Wayang.* As a matter of
fact there is a strong resemblance between many of the

5 O.c., p. 330.

6 Dramatic performance in which the actors are puppets whose
shadows are projected on a screen.

7 Cf. Dr. W. H. Rassers, Over de zin van het Javaansche drama
(concerning the meaning of the Jav. drama), Bijdr. Kon. Instituut 81
(1925), pp. 312-14.
70 J. L. SWELLENGREBEL

characteristics of the Wayang-tales’ and the ‘‘canvas’’-story
of the Korawaérama, which might tempt one to assign an
Indonesian origin to a ‘‘sequel’’ to the Mahabharata similar
to that contained in the Korawagrama.

Such a hypothesis, however, would be premature and for
the following reason:

Held’ has rendered it probable that the Indian Maha-
bharata likewise contains the basic notion of the phratry-
contrast. In his opinion this explains why the balance
between the Pandawas and the Kaurawas is so rigorously
and constantly maintained. To quote his own words: “‘A
phratry-relationship is characterized by the curious hostile
friendship of the two parties. As a rule one phratry is
superior to the other, but this superiority is not openly
acknowledged by the other without anything more. The poet,
having extolled one party above the other in one sentence,
hastens to add in another that this superiority is neither un-
questioned nor unconditioned for all that.’"® The dydta, the
great strife, the conclusion of the Mahabharata, provide us
with numerous details in support of Held’s views.

The data found in the Korawaérama perfectly fit in with
Held’s presentation. The death of the Kaurawas had
destroyed the balance in favour of the Pandawas. Conse-
quently the Kaurawas had to be resurrected. The victory
of the Pandawas dealt unfairly by the Kaurawas. Conse-
quently they will have to rule again and the Pandawas will
have to be humiliated. But they cannot die; the utmost to
which their suffering may extend is their becoming candadlas.

Consequently a ‘“‘sequel’’ to the Mahabharata of this kind
fits in just as well into the Sanskrit epos as into the Javanese

Wayang-stories.

Moreover, according to Stutterheim,’® the Javanese and
Malay tales belonging to the Ramayana-cycle show aberra-
tions from Walmiki’s epos which are by no means limited

8 G. J. Held, The Mahabharata, an ethnological study.

9 Held, oc., p. 300.

10 W. Stutterheim, Rama-legenden und Rama-reliefs in Indonesien,
pp. 81-101.
ON THE OLD-JAVANESE KORAWASRAMA 71

to Indonesian literatures. In the Puranas, the Sanskrit
dramas and in vernacular literature he collected a number of
interesting parallels to the Indonesian versions.

All this ought to convince us that it is impossible to decide
for the moment whether the subject-matter of the Korawaé-
rama originated in Indonesia or whether it came from India
like so many other tales. Both views have something to
recommend them, but no decision can be hoped for unless
some tale of known Indian or Indonesian origin is found which
can be accepted as the prototype of the Korawaérama.

Now as far as I know there are two tales which might
be regarded as such prototypes. One is the Putradargana-
parwan.’* But this tale cannot help us out of the difficulty.
The discrepancies between this episode—the vision of one
night—and the Korawaérama are too great and the points
of resemblance too insignificant to be of any real use in tracing
the origin of the latter. The other one is an episode in the
previous history of the heroes as related in the Malay
Pandawa-tales.? This might be compared with the descrip-
tion of the resurrection of the Kaurawas in the beginning of
the Korawaérama. But the persons dealt with are not the
Kaurawas and the subsequent course of events is entirely
different. As a consequence it is impossible to trace any
definite relationship between. the Korawaégrama and either of
these two tales.

This leads me to the query which caused me to write
this article. With a view to a commented edition of the
Korawaérama, which | hope to publish in the near future,
it would be of the greatest help to me to be made aware of
any work—in Sanskrit or in vernacular—comparable with the
Korawaérama. { am not in a position to go into this parti-
cular matter myself and so I solicit the help of any authority
happening to read this paper in order to obtain an answer
to the following questions :

11 Mahabharata, XV, 31-33.

12 Cf. H.N. v.d. Tuuk, Geschiedenis der Pandawas, in T. B. C.
XXI (1875), p. 17.
72 J. L. SWELLENGREBEL

1. Does there exist a work which might be reasonably
taken as the prototype from which the Korawaérama is
derived, both with regard to the “‘canvas’’-story and to the
detailed elaboration of the conversations between the various
individuals therein impersonated }

2. Do there exist tales dealing with the episodes typical
of the Korawaégrama, viz., resurrection, penance and revenge
of the Kaurawas?

3. Is it possible to identify some of the corrupted
Sanskrit slokas occurring in this work?

An. answer to these questions might amplify our insight
into the trends of the cultural life of “‘Greater India’’.

In the following summary of the Korawagrama I have
taken as basis Cod. 5080 (Legatum Warnerianum, Leiden).’®
There are found in the text a hundred slokas pretending to
be Sanskrit, followed by an Old-Javanese paraphrase. It
seems to be not improbable that they were made in Indonesia
by Indonesians. To give an impression of these Slokas |
have inserted some specimens just as they are given in
the MSS.'* The Sanskrit proper names are given in their
usual form,'® with the exception of a few that are much
altered or unknown to me; these are given .in quotation-
marks. Uncertain words or sentences are indicated by(?).

Wyasa is praised as embodying the cosmos, the gods,
the days of the weeks, etc. This is done in the following
Slokas:

ksithi darani sundari gotri mahi, naairtali jana sindutam/
prabham salilam suwarnna sunuwobar,

samiranam marutam naleyitalam/ /**
apurwwa agneyascawa, daksinni narityang kani/
pagcima bhayabyam kanda, utaram aisanya madya/ /
wirupaksam sukam......... , pitamaha wedasatam/

13 Juynboll, Supplemeni catalogus Il, p. 177; cf. Pigeaud, o.c.
pp. 329-38.

14. It must be noticed that Sanskrit d, dh and dh are rendered by
one and the same cnaracter in the MSS.

15 @ is transcribed by w, & by ng.

16 This is one of tha very few verses in the Koraw. that is not a

bloka; cf. also page II.
ON THE OLD-JAVANESE KORAWASRAMA 73

buddi mahidewatmajjam, kegawam éoritanayam/ /
adurggaficam pariwijam. gatakrtu daksapanam/
petradipam anggaraficah, padmayonam yaksadipam/ /
indram wisnu padmanabham, rudrakaficam mahadewam/
gurukafica hagrikandam, brahma sanegcaram paham/ /
ganaficam sadwarakandah, éatakytu sacapatam/
umampatificah sedkandah, sadwaram yama rudraficah/ /
maduram wara hewajicah, kosikam rsi hewajicah/ /
hawaram catur érijayam, lokamnalam wari érificam/ /
Wyasa is called the manggala of the composer of the
Korawaérama and the “‘Dwidasgaprawa’'(?). Then the text
says: ‘'As follows the holy pandita relates the Swaraéati-
purana’’ (=Saraswatipurana ?). Being told by Krpa that his
sons are dead and their army annihilated, king Dhrtarastra
answers that he wishes to go and live as a hermit, just as has
done his brother Pandu. Krpa says that he should take
advice from Dharmawangéa, for the Pandawas are sons of
the gods:
petradipam tanayaficah, hasamiranatanayam/
sacipati sutanayam, asno!’...... ...kama jayaicam/ /
The king agrees and Krpa goes to Indraprastha. He asks
Yudhisthira to revive the Kaurawas by his power and to
teach the king how to practise tapas and yoga. The answer
is that only Wyasa is able to revive the Kaurawas, for his
power is extraordinarily great. He is worshipped by
Yudhisthira in this mantra :
om, namaste hyang hyang byaswayam, om,
surasira namaskytam/
Siinyabhoham matititam, om, namaste éri dewayanam / /
Upon this invocation Wyasa descends from heaven. Before
he is told anyching he knows already what they wish him
to do. He explains the origin of both the Pandawas and
Kaurawas—in the same way as is done in the Sanskrit MBh.
—in a paraphrase of the following éloka:
kumbaswara korawamsafica, gandaricam satanenam/
kali kalamkampuwajica, rsim pafica pandawenam/ /

17 Asno=Skr. Afwinau; Nakula and Sahadewa always are called
here the sons of “‘Asno’’ and Asmara (=Kama of the éloka).

10
74 J. L. SWELLENGREBEL

The Kaurawas will be revived for the world’s order would
be upset without them: Kaurawas and Pandawas are the
contents of the world; after a time of tapas and yoga the
revived Kaurawas will humiliate their cousins, by causing
them to become Candalas, the Kaurawas in their turn ruling
in Gajahwaya, so Wyasa prophesies.

Thereupon Wyasa and his disciples go to the place where
the corpses of the Kaurawas are lying on the field. There
they meet Narada, sent by Brhaspati, also with the intention
to revive the Kaurawas. Each of the corpses is found lying
under a mountain, whose top is too high to be seen. All
sorts of things and animals are found on these mountains,
in accordance with their deeds. So Bhigma’s corpse is
lying under rock-crystal, for he was true to his vows, etc.
All this is explained by Wyasa to his disciples.

Now the Kaurawas are called back to life by invoking
the gods or demons, whose incarnations they are, as said
by Wyasa:

prabhati bhisma hetayam, bhyomakesam siwa dronam/

kagipam hewafica éalya, pratanggam karnna hewafica/ /

dyaparam kali hewafica, gakuni kulakalamiicah/
polatam duéaganamcah, walkalam bhagadatacam/ /

So Wyasa, having aspersed the corpse of Bhigma with
tirtha kamandalu, invokes Taya.'* Immediately Taya
is seen coming down and bending over Bhigma, who
is revived thereby, but his shape is still that of
a man wounded and mutilated in the battle. He is
aspersed again, three times, by Wyasa and so regains his
former beauty, ‘‘as the full moon’’. There is heard a
heavenly voice, repeating the prophecy of Wyasa and
adding that the Kaurawas should take Ramaparagu as their
guru. Thereupon Drona is revived by Narada, invoking
Brhaspati, Karna by Waigampayana making use of the rosary
and the mudra “aphala-bhedana”’ and invoking Aditya.
In a similar way Salya is called back to life by Narada,

18 Taya=non-existence; with hyang, the article for gods and holy
persons, it denotes a deity, sometimes Buddha.
ON THE OLD-JAVANESE KORAWASRAMA 75

invoking Daitya Kagipu; Duryodhana by Wyasa invoking
Kala?®e and Wudugbasu’*®; Bhagadatta, Sakuni, Jayadratha
and Duhédsana by Wyasa’s disciples Waisampayana,
Sumantu, Jaimini,?"° and Polaha?! invoking Daitya Walkala,
Dwapara,......... and Pulastya. Finally the army is restituted
in its old form by Wyasa.

In accordance with the heavenly voice Bhigma now says
that the Kaurawas must go and live as hermits, taking their
instructions from Ramaparagu, who knows all the asanas,
incantations, the daganadmapariyaya (—paryaya ?), etc. The
Kaurawas are glad of this possibility of taking revenge on
the Pandawas. Wyédsa tells them that, just as krsnapaksa
is the reverse of suklapaksa, so their sorrow and the
Pandawas’ joy will change into the reverse. He gives
them his good advice as to how they should practise
asceticism, after which the Kaurawas take leave from
him. On their journey they meet Wiswakarma, making a
pahoman (place for the homan) for Caturbhuja. He shows
them the way to Ramaparasu, whose Gérama is to the North-
West from the aérama of ‘‘Potrawahana’’ and to the West
from that of ‘‘Krttabrana’’.

Wyasa, having given over the Kaurawas’ army to the
Pandawas, whose reign is described as a prosperous one,
goes back to his aérama; Narada returns to heaven.

In Gajahwaya Yudhisthira answers all the questions of
king Dhrtarastra. First he explains the origin of his
knowledge, that sprang from Taya and was remitted in
succession to Dhruwa, Parameégwara, Wisnu, Brahma,
Mahadewa, Dharmaraja and Yudhisthira.

Question about the tripuruga. Answer:

spatikam tugu hewaficam, stkaraficam paramestam/

udangsu parasikificam, ksiti bhiimi hawarnnawam//
Parameswara as a shining jewel enveloped by a resplen-
dent halo formed “‘the nail of the island of Java."’ By a

18a Descriptions are given of these gods and demons.
19 A Javanese demon.
20 Text: Jemili. 21 Text. Pelawa.
76 J. L. SWELLENGREBEL

mantra of Wisnu the halo disappears. Now Wignu in the
shape of a boar tries to reach the basis of the jewel; he has
no success but meets a woman. In the meantime Brahma in
the shape of a bird flies to the top; he cannot reach the' goal,
but meets Taya. ‘‘This means: Parameswara embodies
all what is high or low; Wisnu embodies women, Brahma em-
bodies Taya. That is what is called tripuruga.’”’ In addition
to this there are summed up different triads: king, waigya,
rsi; rice, fish, wine; etc.

Question about the demarcation of the world. Answer
about the points of the compass, their gods and colours,
classified as follows :

East: Umiapati, white. * Jewels, metals, thunder and
South-East: Parameégwara, lightning, jatmikawarnas,””
pink. etc., apparently are classified
South: Brahma, red. in a similar way: the text,
South-West: Rudra, orange. | however, does not give a
West: Mahadewa, yellow. | very clear idea of what is
North-West: Sangkara, meant precisely.

green.

North: Wisnu, bluish-black.

North-East, Sambhu, bluish-

grey.

Centre: Siwa, all colours.

Question: What is the reason of the tidal movement?
Answer: Bhattara Guru*' tried to bring back the Krtayuga
(description of the four yugas is given here). For this pur-
pose he was sitting on the Mahameru, whose gates are
guarded by Nandigwara. His yoga, however, was interrupt-
ed by the man-eating demon ‘‘Kalagiinya’’—personification
of the pralaya{>)—, who would have nothing to eat when
the Krtayuga, in which nobody dies, came back. In his
anger ‘‘Kalagiinya’’ assumed a formidable shape and
devoured the cosmos. As there remained nothing to eat for

22 =Skr. aGdhyatmikawarna; Jav. for jatmika is urip=life, vital
principle.

23 Very common Indonesian name of Siwa.
ON THE OLD-JAVANESE KORAWASRAMA 77

him now, he vomitted all he had swallowed. This is the
origin of the tidal movement and of a renewed cosmos.

Question: What is the reason that the Mahameru is held
in high esteem by the gods and by men of all castes and. all
sects ?

Answer: The Mahameru is the embodiment c! the four
castes, which are its head, neck, waist and feet; it was made
of gold, jewels, etc., and all sorts of costly things as amrta
were found on it. So it was in the first two yugas (a new
description of four yugas is inserted here :

sampora hajamiirdipam, haégiraésira hakrtam/

atirttham dwapara pepam, adustam dwijanam coram/ /
In the Krtayuga the urip*« was in the body, in the Tretayuga
it was in the heart, in the Dwaparayuga in trees and leaves).
In Dwapara the island of Java was seen trembling. On the
advice of Mpu Palyat—who after being compelled to
worship the ‘‘Arcacandani’’ exploded it and therefore got
the name of Bhagawan Sikhi?®—the gods placed the Maha-
meru on the island of Java. As the inhabitants, however,
became drunk by the amrta that was found on it and
quarrelled about the gold and jewels, the gods gave it the
appearance of an ordinary mountain.

When the Mahameru had been on Java for eight years,
Ramaparaéu killed Arjuna Sahasrabahu, for having slain his
father Bhrgu, which deed was followed by a_ general
slaughter.

Question: How to behave as a merit?

Answer: Day and night one has to practise yoga
choosing one of these GsanasH padmasana, wajrasana, danda-
sana, paryangkasana, witdsana, “‘mastikasana,'?° each of
which is described.

Question about “‘astaga.’’?" Answer: Different duties of
the yogin, as chimed for instance, are summed up in the
paraphrase of the following gloka :

24 =vital principle.

25 This story about Mpu P. is rather obscure.

26 In the other MSS. : sphatikdsana or hastikasana.
27 =Skr. agtaka or hastaga (?)
78 J. L. SWELLENGREBEL

asiirasiram mahabhutam, danam daranam hatirttham/

hapayam ja brahmacayam, hayokam rudra hewafica/ /
One has to take care of yoga and tapas as of one’s own child,
so says Yudhisthira.

Question about the wuku lima(?). Answer: Sandhi,
tapas, asana, pratyaksa and moksa.

Question about the different sacrifices. Answer: The
sacrifices are: dewayajiia, bhiitayajfiia, pitryajfia, manuga-
yajna, aSwamecha, wiéwajit.

Question: What is the reason that Brahma sometimes
is said to have five heads and at other times four? Answer:
Brahma once asked Gana, the wise, to tell how many
heads he (Brahma) had. If -he answered rightly, Brahma
would give him everything he asked for; if not, Brahma would
devour him. Gana said there were five heads, one of them
however Brahma held concealed, which was right. After
this Gana solved many other riddles; amongst others he
explained the real nature of the nine gods (rather obscure).
Asking for his reward he obtained gold, jewels, etc., from
Brahma, tools from Wisnu, sexual success (?) from Indra,
batikked silk from Rudra, musical skill from Mahigwara, food
and wine from Sambhu, perfect things from abroad(?) from
Sangkara and gold from Mahadewa. Gana however was not
satished with all this; his wish was to have things without
age or weight. Brahma therefore gave him flowers and
scents; Indra‘s gift was that in all sorts of things Gana would
be worshipped by men.

Question: If Brahma has five heads, why is he called
caturmukha? Answer: Bhattara Guru, sitting in meditation on
Surabhi, was interrupted by Wisnu, Brahma and “'Kala-
Siinya’’ in the shape of a boar, a yaksa and a serpent res-
pectively. The breath of Surabhi took the shape of three
dogs, a red, a white and a black one. Wisnu’s head was
flung away by Surabhi to the West, becoming the Wek
Damalung—a monstrous swine in hell;—‘‘Kalasgiinya’s’’ head
to the sea, becoming Wasuki(?); one of Brahma’s heads to
the North, becoming the mountain Tumangan.

Question: What is the source of Gana’s wisdom by
ON THE OLD-JAVANESE KORAWASRAMA 79

which he knows the nature of the nine gods. Answer:
“My knowledge about this,” Yudhisthira says, ‘‘springs
from Urwa and was remitted in succession to ‘Otra-
wahana’,”"> Yama and myself." He then proceeds to tell,
that Anantawigesa gave a book, called ‘‘Lingga Pranala"’,
to Taya, who gave it to Saraswati, from whom Gana acquired
it. This book contained eight pages of different colours,
corresponding with the classification given on page 76. In
each of these pages were visible the good and bad deeds and
qualities of the gods in the past, present and future.
Question: That knowledge is lost now. Why? Answer:
Uma asked Gana to tell her all she had done according
to the book. After some hesitation Gana made the following
statement: Uma has had sexual intercourse with a cowherd,
with the intention to possess herself of the milk of his cow.

Moreover she has committed incest with her step-son
Aditya, the son of Sundari. Uma asked to see the book.

After some difficulties, Gana gave it to her explaining how
to use it., ‘Then Uma in the white page sees the good and
bad deeds of Siwa; all he has done with Sundari, being in
an Gsrama. In the red page she sees the deeds in Brahma,
and so on. Seeing that Gana is able to read in the book
all she has done or will do, she asked to be presented with
it. Gana refused, but Uma in a fury tore the book to pieces
and thereby became Durg&. Gana fled but was seized by
Durga and compelled to release her from her Durga-form.
This is done by invoking the fripurusi, Uma,?® Sri and
Saraswati. Thereupon Sawitri,?® Sri and Saraswati take
their abode in Durga’s spiritual and corporeal being. A
manira is pronounced over her by Gana, she is aspersed with
tirtha, wrapped in holy garments, etc., and so gets back her
Uma-form. The remains of the book were given to
“Tambrapeta’’. By him they were brought to the earth and
given to “‘Citragotra’’.

After this conversation king Dhrtarastra clad in his royal
garments, having given his instructions to Widura and the

28 ‘‘Otrawahana’’ = Jamadagni (?)
29 Here Uma and Siawitri seem to denote the same goddess,
80 J. L. SWELLENGREBEL

Pandawas departs for the dframa of Ramaparagu on the
Mahendragiri. Arrived there he relates how he has lost his
sons :

tanayam sunu hewaiica, halinalina hecurnam/

hadihantam wiwolafica, korawampandawam walam/ /
but is consoled by his host, who tells the story of Senajit
and his purohita ‘‘Sumanarsa’’.*°

Senajit apararthajet, asutamsutam linafica/

awinghit sukskafianam, wipram dwijam sahakamam/ /
The purohita, newly arrived from Jambudwipa, said to his
master:

ajanam karakah dukam, awijahwijah pasaram/

awrdah pasaram lapam, pragagafica sadurmmasam / /
there is no reason for sorrow about the loss of a son, because
death is the reverse of life, as day is the reverse of night.
The same holds good in Dhrtarastra‘s case.

The king then gives his garments and jewels to the rsis,
after which he goes to the Satasyngga, where he lives in
the hole of a tiger. His vows are: “‘toyahara, agnihara,
patrahara.’"*?

Now the story goes on, telling how Bhisma and the
Kaurawas arrive at Ramaparasu's da@srama. They are
welcomed and entertained by him. He produces all sorts
of food out of the mountain Mainaka by the power of his
yoga—just as he has done before for Dhrtarastra. The
Kaurawas ask him to assign them a place for the practice of
tapas. Ramaparagu sums up different possibilities and
assigns to Bhigma, the incarnation of one of the Astavasus,
the top of the mountain Gandhamadana, Prabhasa‘’ for
having led a life of chastity; the neck of the mountain to
Drona, incarnation of Brhaspati, for having led a married
life; and the foot to Salya, for being an incarnation of Daitya
Kaégipu. After their departure Duryodhana asks why the
appearance of many people is not in accordance with their

30 Cf. MBh. XIl, 174 (Bramana-Senojitsamwada)
31 =Skr. toyahdra, agnyahara, patrahara (?)
32 Cf. p. 8.
ON THE OLD-JAVANESE KORAWASRAMA 81

caste: rich Canddlas, ugly Ksatriyas, etc. Answering this
question Ramaparaéu first relates how Indra, oppressed by
the three demons, ‘‘Mali’’, ‘“Hemali’’ and “‘Sumali’’, was
delivered from them by Wisnu, making use of the cakra
Wajranabha. As a reward Indra gave him the beautifying
ajits (incantations) Citrabhiwana and Dewanggacitra. So,
awigham éeta hecarmam, hadatudatu ham phalam/
hlepitpita hotyacam..., apti rudira kafica...//
having the same aji Wisnu and Indra resemble each other.
A third aji, called “‘sikgma jahinang” was given to Sri by
Bhattari Saci, by the power of which Sri was able’ always to
remain a virgin. She roused the desires of Bhattara Guru,
who thereby assumed his Kala-form. Wisnu and Sri, flying
from heaven, concealed themselves in the houses of all sorts
of people: tailor, goldsmith, butcher, etc. Seeing Wisnu
and Sri they became beautiful and got beautiful twins of
different sex.

Question: What is the reason that beautiful people
often are stupid, mutilated people rich, etc.? Answer:
They are protected by their favourable qualities; stupid
people are protected by their wealth, etc. That is what
is called paficawyti.2? When, all qualities of a man are bad
he is an itip ing kawah=‘‘crusts of the kettle of hell’’, when
all are good he is a punished god, sent down from heaven.

Duryodhana announces his wish to go and live as a
hermit, so preparing his revenge.on the Pandawas.

In his turn Karna asks about the different ombkadras.
Answer: the pafica-omkdra is the ritual of the Siddhanta-
paksa; the sapta-omkdra that of the Brahmanas; the asta-
omkara-mantra that of the Bauddhas. Also the mudras and
piija of these sects are summed up. Here are mentioned
Brahmanas born in Java as different from those coming from
Jambudwipa, who are Sadras, made dewaguru™ by king
‘*Wimbaya’’,®> whose residence is in ‘‘Caficalawigaya’’.

33. =the five kinds of existence (2) the meaning of the text is rather
obscure here.

34 dewaguru often has the sense of ‘“‘head of a mandala’’= congre-
gation, monastery.

35 or: “Wimcaya’’?-

it
62 }. L. SWELLENGREBEL

Question: What is the reason that all sorts of animals
are worshipped by men? Answer: Siwa and Umi, in their
Kala- and Durga-form asked ‘‘sang hyang Tunggal-tunggal®
to release them. Being Kala’s father he consented, on the
condition that they would worship him im any shape
he assumed.

amrgammrgam ewafica, atharu latam magulmam/

aminamminam paksiham, talangkup matrajangghyatam//
They are released in a similar way as told on p.
(Gana and Durga). Wandering on earth different animals
(cows, dogs, frogs, snakes, etc.) and trees were recognized
by them as incarnations of “‘sang hyang Tunggal-tunggal.”’
They worshipped these incarnations and made a vow that
every human being, doing the same, would be free from all
sins and would attain all he wishes.

Question about the islands that surround the island of
Java. Ramaparagu answers that he does not know that
Kama should ask his father Aditya.””

Karna now proposes that he and Duryodhana, Duhsa-
sana, Sakuni and Bhagadatta will go and live as hermits doing
severe penance to win the favour of Brahma, Siwa, Maha-
dewa, Wisnu and Aditya,** in order to be allowed to kill the
Pandawas. Kama departs for the East to meet his father.
Ramaparagu assigns the mountain Durmukha in the South to
Duryodhana, as a place for doing penance; there Rawana
had lived as a yogin to obtain the favours of Brahma. The
mountain Gandhamadana is assigned to Sakuni, the
mountain Suranatha to Bhagadatta, the mountain Prakuta to
Duhsasana.

Duryodhana does penance in the same way as Rawana
has done ‘‘using his body as a sacrifice and his blood as
tirtha,’’ sitting in danddsana, eating fire.” After some time

36=the holy One, the God of Gods; Jav. tunggal=one; he is called
also sang hyang Eka or s.hy.Eka Siksma.

37 Seems to be called here ‘‘Saramani.’

38 The gods of the four regions and the centre; cf. the classification

on p.
39 Text: agnihara; cf. 15, note 2.
ON THE OLD-JAVANESE KORAWASRAMA 83

Brahma comes down to him. Duryodhana asks to be allowed
to kill the Pandawas. Brahma pronounces this to be impos-
sible, for the Pandawas are indispensable for the existence of
humanity and of the world in the same wy as are the
Kaurawas. The latter however will humiliate their rivals,
who will become Canddlas, ‘‘when the dwidaga({>)*® are
complete.”

Sakuni, sitting in paryangkasana, eating leaves,*’ is
visited by Mahadewa, also called Buddha and “ the holy
yellow (god) of the West."'’? Similar request and similar
answer, as above.

Bhagadatta, sitting in cakrdsana, drinking water‘ is
visited by Wisnu, etc., as above.

Duhgasana, doing penance staying on one foot,** is
visited by Siwa, of whom a description is given. Request
and answer as above.

Karna meets his father in the East and asks for the des-
cription of the islands surrounding the island of Java. Aditya
answers with a description of the course of sun and moon in
Gkaéa and patala, fixed by Dhruwa, and of the depth of the
ocean.

To see the islands Karna, riding on the horse Uccaihgrawas,
accompanies his father, on Aruna. They pass through the
Eastern gate. Karna asks about the width and the demarca-
tion of the ocean.

Aditya points to the three White islands in the East
(description). The inhabitants are most beautiful and free
from death; there is a very wise hermit called ‘‘brahmana
kawibhrata.”” In the South are seen the three Red Islands
(description). The king here is the man-eating Daitya Kala-
yawana, son of Brahma, who died in the following way:
Challenged by Krsna, he defeated and shattered the army of
the latter. Krsna fled to Mucukunda, who assigned to him
as a refuge a pahoman which was transparent and very sharp

40 =twelve kinds of tapas (?)} 41 patrahara.

42 sang hyang Gpita pascima, 43 toyahara,

44 ekapada,
84 J. L. SWELLENGREBEL

at the outside. Kalayawana, rushing towards Kysna, does not
see that he is protected by the pahoman and so is crushed
against it. His corpse was burned by Agni, whom
Mucukunda summoned by the magic of the aji Jiianadahana.

On these Red Islands lives Wibhawasu, who has a trans-
parent pahoman and a red basin filled with the saksmas of
all sorts of fishes, lotuses, etc. The inhabitants drinking out
of it ‘‘live as long as the mountains."" In the West are seen
the three Yellow Islands ,description and éloka). Here is
living Trikalajfia, “the father of bhattara Dharmaraja, the
father of Yama.'’ A similar description of his dsrama,
pahoman and basin. In the North are seen the Black Islands,
having a mighty king, beautiful as Indra, wise as Bhattara
Guru, etc., called Dharmadhata. Here is living ‘‘Dewabasu,
uncle of the king of Dwarawati, younger brother of bhagawan
Gowinda,'’ worshipped by the people. Similar pahoman and
basin.

Question of Karna about the saptabhuwana. Aditya’s
answer is very obscure. Three layers in the swarga and
three in the patdla are mentioned; perhaps these and the
earth are thought to form the saptabhuwana (2). Different
lokas are summed up here, but there seems to be a great
discrepancy between the old-Javanese text and the églokas:

ajanamlokam maddyate, saSwargamlokam medayam/
naleyamlokam madriyam, narakamlokam
hidanam/ /
‘bhuhlokam sagwarggamlokam, sukalenam
hahah lokam/
brahmalokam wisnulokam, sinyabhyo
nirwarnnamytam / /
The highest loka is the Sianyaloka, ‘“‘this is the heaven
of bhagawan Durwa, the son of bhagawan Suta,*® the younger
brother of bhagawan Nirbhana.’’** In, order to see the
patalas they must pass the Western gate, so Aditya says.
Kama asks about the two gates. Aditya tells how in the
Kyta- and Treté-yuga sun and moon shone always; only now

45 =cyuta (?) 46 =nirwana (1!)
ON THE OLD-JAVANESE KORAWASRAMA 85

in the Dwapara- and Kali-yuga the moon has its different
phases, the sun is setting every day—which means shining
in the patala—and is eaten by Rahu periodically. Therefore
in the East and the West were made holes anda gates leading
from the upperworld into the underworld, first by ‘‘Bhasun-
dari’’ and the carpenter of the gods, Wigwakarma, then,
after the sun having burned down these gates, by Lohakara,
the smith of the gods. Having gone down into the patala,
Aditya explained that in the Rasatala lives Waruna, in the
Mahatala Wasuki and in the Sutala Anantabhoga.

Question about the origin of earthquakes. These are
explained by Aditya as movements of Anantabhoga and
*“‘badawanga Nala,''*? who are supporting the Mahameru and
the island of Java.

Now Karna addresses a requesi to his father similar to
that of the Kaurawas; a similar answer is given him.*®
After this Aditya and Karna ascend to the earth out of the
patala, as dawn is at hand.

Karna having taken leave from his father goes to the
aGsrama of Duryodhana. He finds him in meditation in the
hole of a tiger. Perceiving Karna, Duryodhana is very glad.
“Karna put a question to mah&araja Duryodhana: By your
leave, my younger brother Gandhirisuta......... ”* (with these
words the Korawaérama ends abruptly).

47 =Skr. wadabanala (?); Jav. badawang=turtle.
48 Cf. the quotation given in the beginning of this paper, pp.
The ‘Malay

By Dr. R. C. Majumdar.

By philological researches Schmidt and other scholars
have sought to establish a definite connection between the
languages of some primitive tribes of India such as Munda
and Khasi with Mon-khmér and allied languages including
those of the Semang and the Sakai. They have presumed
the existence of a linguistic family which is now called
Austro-Asiatic.’

Schmidt believes that ‘the linguistic unity between these
peoples which is now definitely established, points to an
ethnic unity among them as well, though positive and satis-
factory evidence on this point is lacking yet’.’

“Schmidt has extended his studies even further and
proposed to connect the Austro-Asiatic family with the
Austro-nesian’’ to which, as stated above, the Malays
belonged. Schmidt thus seeks to establish a “‘larger
linguistic unity between Austro-Asiatic and Austro-nesian
and calls the family thus constituted ‘Austric’."’ Here,
again, Schmidt indicates the possibility of an ethnic unity
among the peoples whose linguistic affinity is thus definitely
assured.

Schmidt thus regards the peoples of Indo-China and
Indonesia? as belonging to the same stock as the Munda and

1 Die Mon.-Khmér-Volker, etc. (1906), pp. 35 ff. I have used the
French translation in BEFEO., Vol. VII (pp. 213-63), WII] (pp. 1-35).
A good exposition of Schmidt's view, so far as the linguistic aspect is con-
cemed, is given in the introductory chapter in ‘‘Pre-Aryan and Pre-
Dravidian in India’? by Dr. P. C. Bagchi (Calcutta University, 1929) from
which I have freely quoted. (The page marks within bracket in the text
refer to this book)

2 Schmidt, op. cit., cf. specially p. 233.

3 The Munda group of language includes Kol, the more eastern
Kherwari with Santali Mundari, Bhumij, Birhor, Kod’, Ho, Turi, Asuri,
THE MALAY 87

allied tribes of Central India and the Khasis of North-Eastern
India. He regards India as the original home of all these
peoples from which they gradually spread to the east and
south-east. The following passage sums up his views in this
respect :-——

‘In the same way as I have presented here tne results
of my investigations on movements of peoples who, starting
from India towards the east, at first spread themselves over
the whole length of Indo-Chinese Peninsula, and then over
all the islands of the Pacific Ocean up to its eastern extre-
mity,—my attention has for long been drawn to another
current which, in my opinion, also started from India, but
turned more directly towards the south and touching only
the western fringe of the Pacific Ocean proceeded, perhaps
by way of New Guinea towards the continent of Australia’ .‘

Schmidt’s views, must be regarded as only provisional.®
But several other scholars have supported this view on entirely
different grounds. Among them may be mentioned the
names of S, Lévi, J. Przyluski and J. Bloch. The relevant
articles on this subject by these eminent scholars have been
published together in English version by Dr. P. C. Bagchi.
The following summary is derived almost entirely from his
book entitled ‘“‘Pre-Aryan and Pre-Dravidian in India."’

Prof. Thomsen first maintained that Munda influence
can be traced in the formation of Indian vernaculars. Recent
studies have tried to establish that this influence can be
traced further back. Prof. Przyluski has tried to explain a
certain number of words of the Sanskrit vocabulary as fairly
ancient loans from the Austro-Asiatic family of languages.

and Korwa dialects, and the western Kurku; Kharia, Juang; and the
two mixed languages Savara and Gadaba. (Dr. P. C. Bagchi, op. cit.,
p. vi).

4 Schmidt, op. cit., pp. 248-49. A critical summary of Schmidt's
view is given by Blagden “From Central India to Polynesia’. J. Str.
Br. RAS., No. 53, p. 63.

5 Recently Schmidt's view has been challenged by W. F. de
Hevesy, who denies the existence of the Austro-Asiatic family of languages

(JBORS., Vol. XX, pp. 251)
88 R. C. MAJUMDAR

Prof. Jules Bloch has proved that the question of the Munda
substratum in Indo-Aryan cannot be overlooked (pp. xi-xii).

‘‘But the problem has other aspects too, and it has been
further proved that not only linguistic but certain cultural and
political facts also of the ancient history of India can be
explained by admitting an Austro-Asiatic element. In 1923
Prof. S. Lévi tried to show that some geographical names of
ancient India like Kosala-Tosala, Anga-Vanga, Kalinga-
Trilinga, Utkala-Mekala, and Pulinda-Kulinda, ethnic names
which go by pairs, can be explained by the morphological
system of the Austro-Asiatic languages. In 1926 Prof. Przyluski
tried to explain the name of an ancient people of the Punjab,
the Udumbara, in a similar way and affiliate it to the Austro-
Asiatic group. In another article, the same scholar discussed
some names of Indian towns in the geography of Ptolemy
and tried to explain them by Austro-Asiatic forms
(pp. xii-xiii).

‘In another series of articles, Prof. Przyluski is trying
to prove a certain number of Indian myths by the Austro-
Asiatic influence. He studied the Mahabharata story of
Matsyagandha and some legends of the nagi, in Indian
literature, compared them with similar tales in the Austro-
Asiatic domain and concluded that these stories and legends
were conceived in societies living near the sea, societies of
which the civilisation and social organisation were different
from those of the neighbouring peoples, the Chinese and the
Indo-Aryans."" (p. xiii).

The bearing of all these interesting investigations on the
question under discussion has thus been admirably expressed
by S, Lévi :—

‘We must know whether the legends, the religion and
philosophical thought of India do not owe anything to this
past. India has been too exclusively examined from the
Indo-European standpoint. It ought to be remembered that
India is a great maritime country, open to a vast sea forming
so exactly its Mediterranean, a Mediterranean of propor-
tionate dimensions—which for a long time was believed to
be closed on the south. The movement which carried the
THE MALAY 69

Indian colonisation towards the Far East, probably about
the beginning of the Christian Era was far from inaugurating
a new route, as Columbus did in navigating towards the west.
Adventurers, traffickers and missionaries profited by -the
technical progress of navigation, and followed under the best
condition of comfort and efficiency the way traced {10m times
immemorial by the mariners of another race whom the Aryan
or Aryanised India despised as savages.”’ (pp. 125-26).

In other words, the cumulative effect of all these
researches is to push back the first phase of Indian colonisa-
tion in the Far East to a time prior to the Aryan or Dravidian
conquest of India. It will not perhaps be rash to imagine
that that colonisation was partly, at least, the result of
Dravidian and Aryan settlements in India which dislodged
the primitive settlers and forced them to find a new home
across the seas.*

It may be noted, however, that conclusion of an almost
opposite character has been arrived at by certain scholars.
Krom, for example, believes that the Indonesians had
colonised India in primitive times, and the later Aryan
colonisation of the Far East was merely the reverse of that
process.’ This is in Aagrant contradiction to the views of
Schmidt and Lévi and seems to be based mainly on the theory
of Mr. J. Hornell. In his Memoir on “the origins and
ethnological significance of the Indian Boat Designs’
Mr. Hornell ‘‘admits a strong Polynesian influence on the
Pre-Dravidian population. of the southern coast of India. He
thinks that a wave of Malayan immigration must have arrived
later, after the entrance of the Dravidians on the scene, and
it was a Malayan people who brought from the Malay
Archipelago the cultivation of the Coco-palm.” (p. Xvii).

Two other observations by different scholars probably

6 Kern also held a similar view, cf. VG., Vol. XV, p. 180. He
held that they came from India, their ultimate home being Central Asia.
This ie not in conflict with his original view that the home-land of the
Malayo Polynesians was the eastern coast of Further India.

7 Krom—Geschiedenis, p. 38.

12
90 R, C. MAJUMDAR

lend colour to this view. In the first place, Prof. Das Gupta
“has brought out the striking analogy between some
sedentary games of India (specially of the Central Provinces,
Bengal, Bihar, Orissa and the Punjab) and those of Sumatra.”
(p. xvii).

Secondly, we have the following remarks made by
Dr. J. H. Hutton with reference to some pre-historic
monoliths of Dimapur near Manipur. “‘The method of
erection of these monoliths is very important, as it throws
some light on the erection, of pre-historic monoliths in other
parts of the world. Assam and Madagascar are the only
remaining parts of the world where the practice of erecting
rough stones still continues......... The origin of this cult is
uncertain, but it appears that it is to be mainly imputed
to the Mon-Khmer intrusion from the east."’ In his opinion
these monoliths take the forms of the lingam and yoni, and
he thinks that they possibly originated in Indonesia.
(pp. xvii-xvili).

In all these cases the similarity that undoubtedly exists
may be explained by supposing either that India derived
the practices from Indonesia or that Indonesia derived them
from India. The recent discoveries at Mohenjo-daro,®
however, prove the existence of the cult of Linga and Yoni
in the Indus Valley at least in the beginning of the third
millennium B.C. Thus the migration of the cult towards the
east seems most probable. Considering the whole course
of Indian. History it seems more probable that the migration
of the people and ideas was generally from India towards
the east and no tangible evidence has yet been obtained
that the process was just the reverse. On the whole,
therefore, the views of Schmidt and Sylvain Lévi appear far
more reasonable than those of Hornell and Hutton.

In view of a possible pre-historic connection between
India and Malayasia it is necessary to examine in all its
bearings the word Malaya which has given the name to the
dominant race and the dominant language in Malayasia. It

8 Marehall—The Indus Civilisation, pp. 58 ff.
THE MALAY 91

is a well-known fact that an Indian tribe called Malava
(ver, Malava) or Malaya (var. Malaya) is known from very
ancient times. The common form, of course, is Malava,
but the form ‘Malaya’ also occurs on their coins. In a dis-
cussion of these coins Mr. Douglas maintained that Malaya
ig the older form of the tribal name. His conclusion rests
chiefly on the Greek form of the name. ‘The Greeks’ says
he ‘‘called ther the Malloi. Had the name Malava been
in common use at that time, | feel sure that the Greeks
would have transliterated the word as the Malluoi. This seems
to me to sliow that the commoner form of the tribal name
at the time of the Greek invasions was Malaya.’’®

Whatever we may think of this view, there is no doubt
that both the forms were in common use. The form Malaya
occurs in Mudra-Raksasa’® and Malaya in an inscription
found at Nasik.’! The interchange of y and v is also attested
by the alternative names of a Satavahana king as Pulumayi
and Pulumavi.’”

The antiquity of the Malava-Malaya tribe is proved by
Panini’s reference to it as a clan living by the profession of
arms (Gyudhajivin). There is no doubt also that the Malavas
were widely spread in different parts of India. Alexander
met them in the Punjab, but their settlement in Rajputana is
proved by the discovery of thousands of their coins at Nagar
in Jaipur State? and the reference in the Nasik inscription
mentioned above.

The Indian literature also makes frequent references to
the Malavas. The Mahabharata knows of various Malava
tribes in the west, north and south.’* The Ramayana and
Matsya-purana include the Malavas among the eastern

9 JASB., N.S. Vol. XIX, (1924), Numismatic supplement
No. XXXVII, p. 43.

10 Act I, verse 20.

1! Rapson—Catalogue of the coins of the Andhras, etc., p. LVII.

12 Ibid., f.n. {.

13. V. A Smith—Catalogue of coins in the Indien Museum, pp. 161 f.,
170 ff.

14 Cf. Mahabharata, 11-32, HI-51, VI-, 87, 106.
92 R. C. MAJUMDAR

tribes'® while various other texts refer to them, as a people
in one or other parts of India.

The wide spread of the Malavas may also be guessed
from Indian dialects or toponyms connected with them.
Mr. Grierson has referred to a Malavia dialect extending
from Ferozepur to Bhatinda in the Punjab and we have also
the well-known Malayalam language of southern India.
The well-known Indian provinces of Malava in northern
India and Malayabar or Malabar in southern India still testify
to the influence of that tribal name. The Malaya mountain,
the source of Sandalwood, is referred to in the Puranas and
other ancient literature as one of the seven Kulaparvatas or
boundary mountains in India. Lastly the famous era,
beginning in 58 B.C., has been associated with the Malavas
from the earliest times.

The Buddhist literature also refers to Malaya country.
The famous Lankavatara Siitra is said to have been delivered
by the Buddha in the city of Lanka on the summit of the
Malaya mountain on the border of the sea. The Buddhist
reference to Malaya has been regarded by some as purely
imaginary but the existence of a Malaya mountain in Ceylon
is proved by Ptolemy and Mahavarnsa. That of a Malaya
country and a Malaya mountain in the south of India also
rests on definite grounds. The great Buddhist Vajrabodhi
who came to China in A.D. 719 is described as a native
of the Malaya country adjoining Mount Potalaka, his father
being preceptor of the king of Kajici. Hiuen Tsang places
the country of Malakita, 3000 li. south of Kajici and
refers to its mountains Malaya and Potalaka. Alberuni also
places Malaya 40 farsakhs (about 160 miles) south of Kajici.
Thus we have both a Malava country and a Malaya mountain
in the extreme south of the Indian Peninsula.’* There is
no doubt that this name is preserved in modern Malabar

15 Ramayana, IV. 40, V. 22. Matsyapurina, Ch. 114, V. 34.

16 S. Lévi in JA., CCVI, pp. 65 ff. Wattere—On Yuan Chwang,
Vol. H, pp. 229-31. Ptolemy—(M'cCrindle) p. 249. Geiger—Maha-
vamsa, p. 60. Sachau-Alberuni, Vol. 1, p. 200, cf. also BEFEO.,
Vol. IV, p. 359.
THE MALAY 93

which the Arab Geographers call either Malaya-bar or simply
Malay.*’

While the Malava and Malaya can thus be traced as
tribal or geographical names all over India, up to its nosth-
western, eastern and southern extremities, the spread of this
name across the sea is no less conspicuous. On the east,
the famous Malays of Malayasia, the place names Malay
and Malacca in the Peninsula, Malayu in Sumatra,** Mala
or Malava for Laos and perhaps even Molucca islands in
the eastern extremity of the Archipelago, and on the west
Maldives (Maladvipa), and Malay the ancient name of
Madagascar’® testify to the spread of the name in Indo-China
and along the whole range of the southern ocean.

Now Ferrand has drawn our attention to the fact that
the Indonesian language, mixed with Sanskrit vocabulary,
was current in Madagascar. Combining this fact with other
traditional evidences he has come to the conclusion that
Madagascar was colonised in ancient times by Hinduised
Indonesians.”° It is not necessary for the present to discuss
the further implications of this theory as enunciated by
Ferrand, and I must rest content by pointing out the bearing
of the account of Malava-Malaya, as given above, on this
as well as several other theories.

- Now the theories of Schmidt, Lévi, Hornell and Hutton
(as modified by the discoveries at Mohenjo-daro) referred to
above all presuppose or are at least satisfactorily explained
by a stream of migration of Indian peoples towards the east
and south-east, to Assam, Burma, Indo-China and Malay-

17 Ferrand-——Textes, p. 38, f.n. 5, pp. 204, 340.

18 ‘The name Malayu is very common in Sumatra. There are a
mountain and a river of that name; there are five villages called Malayu
and a tribe of that name. T’oung Pao, series [1, Vol. Il, p. 115.

19 Ferrand—-Textes, pp. 389, 396.

20 JA., II-XH, (1918), pp. 121 &. JA., ILXIV, (1919), pp. 62 f.
pp. 201 ff. Krom, however, thinks that the Indonesian people colonised
Madagascar before they came into contact with the Hindus. He attri-
butes the Indian element in the language of Madagascar to Ister inter-
course (Geschiedenis, pp. 38-9).
94 R. C. MAJUMDAR

Archipelago, both by land and sea. The migrations of the
Malava tribe, so far as we can judge from the occurrence
of geographical names, follow, as we have seen above,
exactly this course, as we can trace them from the Punjab
to Assam on the one side and to Malabar on the other.

From Malabar we can trace the name, in the east
through Ceylon (Malaba mountain in Lanka) and Sumatra
(Malyu) to Malaya Peninsula, perhaps even to Moluccos.
On the west we can trace it from Malabar to Maldives and
Madagascar. It is no doubt more reasonable to explain the
linguistic facts observed by Ferrand in Madagascar by
supposing a common centre in India from which the streams
of colonisation proceeded both towards the east as well as
towards the west, than by supposing that Hindu colonists
first settled in Malayasia and then turned back to colonise
Madagascar. The people of Madagascar have a tradition
that their ancestors came from Mangalore.” This place is
located by Ferrand in the south of Malay Peninsula, but it
should not be forgotten that Mangalore is the name of a
well-known place in Malabar Coast, and is referred to by
Arab writers as one of the most celebrated towns of
Malabar.??

I do not wish to be dogmatic and do not altogether reject
the views of Ferrand. But the known facts about the
Malava-Malaya tribe in India seem to me to offer quite a
satisfactory explanation not only of the problem of colonisa-
tion of Madagascar but also of the racial, linguistic and
cultural phenomena observed by Schmidt, Hutton and
Hornell. It is interesting to note in this connection that
various words inscribed on the coins of the Malavas which
have been provisionally explained as names of tribal leaders,
are non-Sanskritic. Thus we have Bhapamyana, Majupa,
Mapojaya, Mapaya, Magajaga, Magaja, Magojava, Gojara,
Masapa, Mapaka, Paccha, Magacche, Gajava, Jamaka,
Jamapaya, Paya. Whatever the language may be, it shows
one peculiar Austronesian characteristic, which has been
traced by Sylvain Lévi in certain geographical] nomenclatures

21 JA., XIV. (1919), p. 64. 22 Ferrand—Textes, p. 204.
THE MALAY 95

of ancient India, viz., the existence of a certain number of
words constituting almost identical pairs, differentiated
between themselves only by the nature of their initial
consonants. Among the terms on the Malava coins noted
above we may easily select two series of this type :—

1. Paya, Ma-paya, Ja-ma-paya.

2. Gajava, Magojava.

The tribe Milava-Malaya has played a great part in the
history of India. Its name is associated with an old language,
the most ancient era and two impoitant provinces of India.
The Malaya tribe has played an equally dominant part in
the Indian seas. It has been the dominant race in the Indian
Archipelago and its name and language are spread over a
wide region extending almost from Australia to African
coast. I have shown enough grounds above for the pre-
sumption—and it must not be regarded as anything more
than a mere presumption—that the Malava of India may
be looked upon as the parent stock of the Malayas who
played such a leading part in the Malayasia. It may be
interesting to note here that Przyluski has shown from linguis-
tic data that Udumbara or Odumbara was the name of an
Austro-Asiatic people of the Punjab and also designated their
country.”> The Odumbaras were neighbours of the Malavas
‘and the coins of the two peoples belong approximately to
the same period.2* Thus, prima facie there is nothing
inherently objectionable in the assumption that the Malava-
Malaya may also be the name of an Austro-Asiatic people.

If the presumption be held a reasonable one, we may
refer to Ptolemy's account as an evidence that the Malayas
had spread to the Far East before his time. Ptolemy refers
to mountain Malaya in Ceylon and cape Maleou Kolon in
the Golden Khersonesus. Regarding the latter, McCrindle
remarks as follows: ‘‘Mr. Crawford has noticed the
singular circumstance that this name is pure Javanese
signifying ‘“Westerm Malays’’. Whether the name Malay
can be so old is a question; but | observe that in Bastian’s

23 P. C. Bagchi—Pre-Aryan and Pre-Dravidian in India, pp. 149-60.
24 V. A. Smith—op. cit., pp. 160 f., p. 166,
96 R. C. MAJUMDER

Siamese extracts the foundation of Takkhala is ascribed to
the Malays.” Thus indications are not wanting that various
branches of the Malay tribe had settled in Malayasia before
the second century A.D. There is a general tradition
among the Malays of Minankaban that their parent-stock
came from India and settled in the western coast of
Sumatra.”°

Thus while it is impossible to arrive at any definite con-
clusion in this matter, pre-historic migrations of Austronesian
tribes from India to Malayasia appear very probable, and if
this view be correct, we may regard the Indian Malaya-
Malava people as one of these tribes.”®

25 Cf, Ferrand in JA., XIl, p. 77.

26 Although I have arrived at the theory of the Indian origin of the
Malays quite independently, it is only fair to note that Gerini made the
same euggestion in hie ‘‘Researches on Ptolemy’s Geography of Eastern
Asia, (p. 10) ff.)". 1 have not referred to his views as they are mixed up
with a great deal of extraneous matter and some amount of fanciful etymo-
logical derivations. So far as I can see his view rests primarily on the
resemblances of geographical names.

Gerini explains Maleou-Kolon as referring to two prominent Indian
tribal names—Malay and Kola (Cola) of south India, and he traces many
other south Indian tribal names to the Malay Peninsula (cf. pp. 102-03).
He holds that Malacca was either a modification of Malaykolam or
Malayaka (meaning the country of the Malays) or identical with Malaka,
the name of a southern Indian tribe mentioned in the Mahabharata (p. 105).
I have tentatively adopted this view in respect of both Malacca and
Moluccos. With the exception of this and the statement that Laos is
referred to as Malava (p. 117) 1 have not borrowed from Gerini any
views or etatements recorded in this chapter.

I must also state that it is usually held, though without sufficient
reason, that the term Malaya as designating the Malay Peninsula came
into use only in the seventeenth century A.D. (J. Mal. Br. RAS., 1930, p.
85), presumably in consequence of the migration of a large number of
Malays from Sumatra, in the fifteenth century A.D. ((Bull, com. Arch.
Indo-Chine, 1909, p. 184). Blagden refers to !-teeing’s Malayu and infers
that Malaya country, par excellence was in Central Sumatra, a fact agree-
ing very well with native Malay tradition on the subject which derives
the origin of many of the Malays of the Peninsula from the old Central
Sumatran State of Menangkaban (J. Str. Br. RAS., No. 32, pp. 211-13).
This view admits the possibility of the name Malaya being applied to the
Peninsula at an earlier date. Cf. Crawfurd—Dicitionary, pp. 250-52,
On Some Hindu Relics in Borned

By O. C. Gangoly

In an insignificant Note published in ““Ripam’’ (1926,
Nos. 27-28, p. 114), which the Editor of Annual Bibliography
of Indian Archaeology (Vol. !, p. 82) did the writer courtesy
to quote in extenso, | had ventured to suggest, as a random
guess, that the island of Borneo may possibly be identi-
fied with the Barhina dvipa mentioned in the Puranas.’ The
discovery of various Hindu images? in Borneo brought to
light by the Midden-Oost-Borneo Expeditie (the Central and
East Borneo Expedition) in 1925, appeared to lend colour to
the writer's theory that Borneo was possibly known to the
writers of the Brahmanical purdnic sagas. This would
imply that Borneo might have received its Hindu culture direct

1 In the Vayu-purana we find a reference to a cluster, group or
system of islands having for its centre the Barhina dvipa, and the
whole group appears to be designated as Barhina-dvipa-varsa. This
seems to point to an early period when the Java-dvipa had not yet
emerged into a relative position of eminence. In the 48th section of the
Vayu-purana the following verses occur :

“Vistirnagcayatascaiva nand-sattva-samakulah
Barhina-dvipa-parvvani ksudra-dvipah sahasrasah//\2//
Jambu-dvipa-pradesastu sadanye vividhagrayah
Atra dvipah samakhyata nana-ratnakarah kgitau//13//
Anga-dvipam Jama(? Java)dvipam Malaya-dvipameva ca/
Sankha-dvipam Kusa-dvipam Varaha-dvipameva caf /\4//
Anga-dvipam nibodha tvoam nana-sangha-samakulam /
Nand-mleccha-ganakirnam taddvipam bahu-vistaram/ /15//

In the passages quoted as well as in the previous verses, non-Hindu
{mleccha) aboriginal populations living on fruits and vegetables are
teferred to. As I propose to devote a separate article on the topic,
I do not discuss here the significance of the various data.

~ 4 2° Various Buddhist images have also been brought to light, but
,We are not concerned with them in our present article.

13
98 O. C. GANGOLY

from India. For the benefit of scholars, Dr. Bosch had been
good enough to publish these Hindu relics from Borneo
along with some related images in the Batavia Museum, in
the same year (Oudheidkundig Verslag, 1925, pp. 132-146)
anticipating the official report of the Expedition which was
not published before 1927.2 Some of these images cof
stone were found in a cave of Mount Kombeng in the in-
terior of the island, and it has been suggested that they might
have been removed from their original site and concealed
for safety when their worshippers were pressed by the spread
of Islam in the lowlands.

These stone images, characteristically Saivaite, consist
of (1) a standing Mahakala, (2) a seated Karttikeya, (3) a
seated GaneSa, (4) a broken head of Brahma, (5) a headless
standing image of Agastya (Siva-guru), (6) a seated Nandi
(bull) and some fragments. In studying these images, Dr.
Bosch has also taken into consideration a standing image of
Mahadeva (No. 103-f, Museum of Batavia) and a standing
image of Nandigvara (No. 103-g, Museum of Batavia). Dr.
Bosch, on a consideration of the style of these images, parti-
cularly of the peculiarity of the Karttikeya image, which is
typically Hindu-Javanese, has come to the conclusion that
these images must have come from Java, and belong to the
Hindu-Javanese School. From this relationship to the
Brahmanical images of Java, Dr. Bosch argues against the
probability of Hindu Colonists having migrated direct to
Borneo. The Editor of the Annual Bibliography of Indian
Archacology for 1926 (p. 25) offers some very _inter-
esting remarks on Dr. Bosch’s conclusions: ‘““The images
certainly show an influence derived from a Hindu-Javanese
source. Yet on the evidence of certain peculiar features,
they can hardly be considered to be the work of artists from
Java. We shall have to imagine either a colony of Hindu-
Javanese origin, which for a considerable time had lost touch

3 Midden-Oost-Borneo Expeditie, 1925, Utigave van het Indiach
Comite voor Wetenschappelijke Onderzoekingen, G. Kolff' & Co.,
Weltervreden, 1927, pp. 391-423.
*,

Pig. BL Nandi, Private collection, The Hague.

ON SOME HINDU RELICS IN BORNEO 99

with the motherland, or a Hinduized indigenous (viz., Dayak)
population. The Buddhist images show grave errors and
misconceptions. The stone-masons who fashioned these
icons must, therefore, have been separated from their co-
religionists for a long space of time. The Saiva figures lead
to the same conclusion.”

There is some force in this argument, but unless more
data are available it is somewhat hazardous to come to a
definite conclusion as to the state and extent of Brahmanical
culture that prevailed in Borneo, and its exact relation to
India proper.

Having strayed into other regions of Indological studies,
the writer has been out of touch with Indonesian topics for
several years, and has been induced by the learned editor
of this Journal to contribute on some Indonesian topic as a
tribute, however humble, to the memory of that eminent
savant the late lamented Prof. Sylvain Lévi, to whom
students of the Borobudur stiipa are heavily indebted for his
valuable identification of the reliefs on the lower stratum of
that famous monument.

By a lucky chance the present writer came into: posses-
sion of a very interesting photograph of a group of Saiva
relics in Borneo which is here reproduced for the first time
{Fig. A]. They were found in the esiuary of the river Rata
(> Rautau) in Central Mahahan. The group, probably be-
longing to some old Saivaite shrine, now destroyed, consists
of five stone pieces—which are described in the order in
which they occur in the photograph: (1) A circular seat in
the shape of an upturned lotus, evidently a vali-pitha, a
‘seat’? for the offerings, very frequently met with in
Southern Indian shrines. (2) A circular shaft with octagonal
faces at the base, placed on a lotus cushion, which is placed
on a rectangular base. It looks very like a lingam which is
rather doubtful having regard to the flat truncated appear-
ance of the head and the absence of the gauri-patta. (3)
Another circular ‘‘seat,”” in the shape of the “‘knob”’ of a
closed lotus, the petals of which appear in three closely set
rows. At the corners are four decorations derived from the
100 O. C. GANGOLY

crumpled leaves of a lotus. (4) A rectangular seat with the
four corners truncated at four ends, and mounted by a
pleated “‘lid’’ which carries at the centre a smal] closed lotus
with the top dressed like a circular disc. The protruding
figure is evidently a serpent-head—an appropriate motif for
Saiva ritual pieces. The ‘seat’ is evidently a dipa-pitha,
a place where the devotee places the lighted lamp (dipa) in
honour of the deity. (5) The last item in the group is a
seated Nandi, the bull, the vahana of Siva, which is an
indispensable effigy in all shrines of Siva, being placed
beyond the vali-pitha, facing the lingam inside the shrine.
Beginning from the Pallava periods, we have numerous re-
presentations of the seated Nandi in various old medizval
and later Saiva shrines of South India. The most gigantic
in proportion are those occurring at Tanjore (IIth century ?)
at Rameégvaram (l6th century >) and on Camunda_ Hill,
Mysore (I8th century 2). The most typical iconographic
plastic formula for representing the Nandi—is that represent-
ed in a series of Cola Sculptures of which a typical example
is furnished by a treasure-trove bronze from Paficanathi-
kulam, Tanjore District (Gangoly, South Indian Bronzes, 1915,
Plate LXXXVI). The distinctiveness of the pose consists
in the left fore-leg being doubled up, the hoof thereof reaches __
the hoof of the left hind-leg, while the right fore-leg is spread
out in front. The other characteristic feature is the stately
poising of the head—on a raised neck,—suggesting an
attitude of devout attention to the image inside the shrine.
The hump, somewhat overshadowed by the raised head and
neck, is clearly indicated sometimes in very significant deco-
trative curves as in the Tanjore example. In the earlier
examples, the upraised head is a very distinctive feature,
Another iconographic feature is the series of necklaces, and
rows of bells, which are elaborately curved in profusion
across the spacious necks and across the buttocks passing
below the tail. The third peculiarity is the saddle (pitha-
vastra—'covering on the back’=saddle) which is sometimes
fastened with elaborately ornamented buckle. If we now. -.
turn to a fine example of an Indo-Javanese Nandi, of the
ae Plate X.

a ; od

Fig. FR. Nandi’ Siva Temple, Candi Banon, Java.

> 7

Fig. F. Nandi, Mr. Kombeng, Borneo.
ON SOME HINDU RELICS IN BORNEO 101

classical period (from a private collection in the Hague,
Fig. B), we find that it follows most of the peculiarities of
Nandis of the Mid-Cola period of which we may take the
Paficanathikulam bronze (Fig. C) as a typical piece. ‘The
Hague example follows very closely in the foot-steps of the
Cola-bronze,—not only in the characteristic upturneg head
and the poses of the legs, but also in many details of the
accessories and ornaments, e.g., the trapping of the pitha-
vastra fastened with a ‘lion-head’ (? Kirtimukha) clasp. This
little detail links up the colonial type with the continental
models. In later degenerate times, the image-makers lost
touch not only with the iconographic canonical texts, but
also with classic examples of earlier models. The writer has
come across several examples of Nandis in Southern India
(of the 17th, 18th and 19th centuries) in which the head
ceases to sit erect on the shoulders with the gaze affixed on
the deity, but droops in a straight line running in a _hori-
zontal fashion in continuation of the line of the back, with
the hump slightly indicated as in the example occurring in
the group from Borneo (Fig. A). In the latter example, the
oniy prominent feature is the row of bells, one round the
neck and another hung across the body in a line parallel
with the line of the back. If we now compare this example
“with the Hague specimen (Fig. B), we find it rather hard to
deduce the same from the Javanese model. If the Borneo
specimen was carved locally it must have had for its model
examples different from the typically Javanese types. If we
compare the Mahahan example (Fig. A) with one from
Mount Kombeng (Fig. F), we find they follow a common
model with the head drooping in a line continued from the
back, and not set up high as in the other examples cited
here. It would be quite possible to argue that these ritual
stones found at Mahahan have come from India, as they
cannot be said to be decadent forms of the Javanese models.
If they have come from Java, they must be taken to be
related to late and decadent Indian models of the 18th and
19th centuries and may have come to Borneo from India via
Java, as they cannot be related to the Javanese type, as
102 O. C. GANGOLY

illustrated in the example cited in Fig. B. If they came from
India, they seem to suggest the continuation of Indian contact
with Borneo up to a very late time. Java was over-run by
Islamic culture from the sixteenth century (c. 1515-1526).
And as the stone relics in Borneo, we have cited here (Fig. A),
cannot be. dated earlier than the 17th century, it is unlikely
that they could have come from Java—as a living source
of Hindu cults, images, or symbols, in the seventeenth
century. On the other hand, it is hazardous to accept the
form of the Nandi cited in Fig. B as the only typical and
prevailing type of Nandis current in Java, for we have several
examples of the second type with drooping head occurring
in connection with Brahmanical monuments in Java. We can
cite, at least, two examples which do not follow the type
illustrated in the Hague specimen (Fig. B). One is an effigy
of the Bull represented at the back of the standing Siva from
Gandi Banon (datable about the first half of the 9th
century, vide Plate 83, Rapporten van de Commissie in
Nederlandsch-Indié voor Oudheid-kudung onderzock, 1905-06,
p. 16) from which we have borrowed Fig. E. The second
example (Fig. D) is borrowed from the well-known Siva
shrine in the group of Brahmanical sanctuaries at Prambanam
(late ninth century) where Nandi has been assigned a
special shrine (vide Plate 124, Rapporten, 1909). Both these -
examples, differing from the Hague specimen, have their
heads drooping and not sitting erect on the shoulders. And
it is easy to argue that the two Borneo nandis may have for
their ancestors the type represented by the two 9th century
examples from Banon and Prambanam, and that the
Brahmanical images might have come from Java or might have
been made on the models provided by Javanese specimens,
and a direct contact with India is not an inevitable inference.
It may also be argued that the examples of Nandi with head
erect (Figs. B & C) represent a different iconographic type, to
be distinguished from the types with drooping head illustrated
in Figs. D, E and F. The former type represents a typical
devotee perennially worshipping the Lord Siva, by fixing his
gaze on the image and this type is frequently represented
GIS. 1936.
f e x Plate XI.

Fig. G. Nandi, Polonnarwva, Ceylon.j

Fig. H. Nandi, Camundi Hill, Mysore.
ON SOME HINDU RELICS IN BORNEO 103

in the courtyard of a Siva temple, with its face turned
straight towards the image in the sanctum. The second type
(Figs. D, E and F) represents vahana, the mount nf Siva, and
is generally placed behind the image as part of the icono-
graphic image of Siva conceived as Vrsa-vahana—'He
whose mount is the bull’. In the latter representation the
Bull in its aspect of a typical devotee is not emphasized as
in the other representation. The two types—one with head
erect and the other with a drooping head, therefore, represent
two different inconographic conceptions, and may not repre-
sent stylistic differences—on which any chronological argu-
ment could be validly founded. The two other examples
here cited for comparison (Figs. G & H) also represent the type
of the devotee. So that before more reliable data are
available, it is not possible to state whether Borneo received
its Hindu culture direct from India or indirectly from Java.
The data of the purdnas appear to suggest that India’s contact
with Borneo was earlier than the date of her contact with
Java.
A South Indian Portrait Bronze
from Sumatra

By Prof. K. A. Nilakanta Sastri.

The bronze that forms the subject of this paper was
discovered in 1930 by Dr. F. D. K. Bosch’ in a Biaro (cf.
Vihdra) in Padang Lawas, Tapanoeli, near the wall en-
closing the temple on the western side. It is the image of
a woman; it is 19-5 c.m. in height and is now in the Batavian
Museum. It deserves to be better known than it is, and I
believe that no apology is needed for discussing the image
here, as the only notice of it known to me is in the archao-
logical report of Dr. Bosch (written in Dutch) for the year
1930. I may state once for all that I am indebted to that
report for very much of what follows as well as for the
photographs of the image that accompany this paper.

Dr. Bosch describes the image in the following words:
“The figure stands on a plain circular plate; the clothing of
the lower half of the body shows transverse stripes, with an
irregular pattern between them formed by small circlets and.
nailhead pits impressed on the metal; the upper half of the
body is naked; smooth rings round ankles, wrists, elbows
and arms; a garland of beads encircling the neck twice and
hanging in a loop between the breasts; the left hand
(exaggerated in the photograph? and not larger than normal)
in a sort of Vitarkamudra; the right hand open, with the
palm turned upside, wherein is a small round object (lotus
bud 2); ears with long lobes bored through; the hair drawn
smooth over the head, and gathered behind and tied into
a bun; long nose; small mouth; a small urna on the forehead.
Beautiful deep-green patina.”

1 Oudheidkundig Verslag 1930, Bijlage C.
2 This 1 suppose is due to this part of the image being covered by
a thicker layer of patina,
‘ur2uOyHequiny wor ‘BelpsieaA SIpuNypisupNyey xy} wos) ‘eryeuing ‘leouede F
‘suo}s ‘ueui0omM ev jo 3sinydjnag ‘semey] Suepey wlory “urs CSE TY 19}59N18IS SZuU0Ig |Y4} JO SMOIA OMT.

‘ZB (ob “Bi “| Br ,

kK. A. NILAKANTA SASTRI 105

The style of the image bespeaks its South Indian organ;
the features, the bust and the formation of the limbs, the
coiffure, the low forehead and almond eyes, the long nose and
small mouth—all conform to the ideals of feminine beauty °
familiar to the South Indian plastic art. When the image was
‘referred to Mr. A. H. Longhurst for his opinion as to its age
and provenance, he wrote: ‘‘I should imagine the female
figure represents a portrait statuette of a lady who made a
gift to the vihdra. The style of the image suggests the 15th
century as its probable age. In pose and dress, tke figure is
not unlike the Sati images of the 16th century and earlier, so
common in this presidency, but of course, the style of dress
and coiffure were common long before that period, and both
may still be seen in Malabar at the present day.’

Dr. Bosch draws pointed attention to the absence of a
lotus pedestal and other tokens of divinity or even of high
birth; and he argues that the simplicity of the clothing may
be due to the fact that a person of rather low birth is portray-
ed here and that this bronze might have originally been one
of two attendants on either side of a central figure, a divinity
or a princely donor of the vihara. He also remarks that the
treatment of the dress in this bronze is unique among Indian
images. He therefore refrains from making any attempt to
determine the particular school to which the image may be
assigned, or to determine its age more closely, though he
observes that we cam hardly believe that so late as the fifteenth
century Buddhism was still so flourishing in Padang Lawas,
and that we shall have to assign the image to an earlier
period than does Mr. Longhurst, with the tenth century as

the highest limit , for it was then that the heyday of the
art of casting bronzes began.

At a later stage in his report,‘ Dr. Bosch develops the
hypothesis that a Buddhist art developed in Padang
Lawas which differed considerably from Hindu-Javanese art,
and that it did so under the stimulus of a fresh stream of
cultural influences flowing in directly from South India and
exemplified by the well-known Lokanatha bronze of A.D.

3 OV. 1930, p. 137. 4 Pp. 145-48.
14
(06 A SOUTH INDIAN PORTRAIT BRONZE FROM SUMATRA

1024, the Cola invasion of the Archipelago under Rajendra
I, the fragmentary Tamil inscription of Loboe Toea, the
inscription of Porlak Dolok and so on.

Everyone knows how little definite knowledge we have
of the history of sculpture in South India and how difficult
and risky it is to assign definite dates to bronzes. Still I
venture to think that this bronze, while it may belong to
the period so ably advocated for it by Dr. Bosch, might well
be even earlier. If we just ignore the little problem raised
by the treatment of the clothing, we shall find that the
statuette is a very attractive and simple piece of work, which,
like all good works of art, impresses more by the perfection
of its modelling than by attention to detail or ornament.
1 would invite comparison with a large stone figure of a
woman—also clearly a portrait—from Kumbakonam. The
statue, nearly life-size, belongs almost certainly to the tenth
century A.D.; in the disposition of dress and coiffure (though
not in their patterns) and in the absence of a lotus pedestal
or other marks of divinity or royalty, it resembles our
statuette. But there are seen many more bangles, collars
and necklaces in the stone figure than in our bronze. Another
large statue, this is of metal and 4 feet 92 inches, with
which our bronze may be usefully compared, is that of
Pattini, figured by A. K. Coomaraswamy as No. 48 in his
Vigvakarmd, first series. The pose of the hands, the plain
pedestal, and the disposition of the dhot: have clear and
striking resemblances to our bronze, while the total lack of
ornaments is perhaps in keeping with the early age, to which
Coomaraswamy is inclined to ascribe it, seventh century
A.D.: but it may also be that no ornaments are shown on
this Pattini image as it depicts the chaste wife apothegsized
in her widowhood. In any event, the possibility that bronze
casting had a long history in South India before the 10th
century A.D. should not be left out of account in discus-
sions on the chronology of bronzes.

The very peculiar pattern shown on the cloth in the
Sumatran bronze may be intended to represent some kind
of flowered cloth or silk. .
K. A. NILAKANTA SASTRI 107

After what has been said so far, | think it will be seen
that there is no definite reason to assume that this bronze
must have been detached from a group of three. The image
may be the portrait of a benefactress or merely of a devotee.
Hindu iconography, as is well known,® permits of metallic
images of devotees being set up and worshipped in temples.
Lastly, the image may not have been cast in Sumatra, but
carried from South India,*® in which case it will be no evidence

of the growth of a more or less independent school of
Buddhist art in Padang Lawas.

5 Gopinatha Rao, Elements ll, ii. pp. 474 and Appendix 236.
6 Cf. OV. 1930, p. 138.
NOTES
Literary and Epigraphic Notes
By Himansu Bhusan Sarkar
I. A Sanskrit Grammar of Bengal in Java

Prof. Krom published the text of the copper-plate no. 3
of Sekar, Bajanegara, in the TBG., 53, pp. 433-434. In
lines 5-6 of this record (second face) we come across the
following interesting statement: -

“‘dharmmadhyaksa_ ring kasogatan, dang  dcdaryya
nddendra, sang Gryyddhirdja, boddhapaksa, tarkkacandra-
uyGkaranaparisamdpta, ............6 ** ie., the superintendent of
the Buddhist institutions (viz.) dang acaryya Nadendra
(called) Aryyadhiraja who belonged to the sect of the
Buddhists and had finished the (lore of the) sceptical science
(tarkka) and the grammar of Candra (Candravydkarana)......

The record under review was composed after 1365 A.D.
Now this Buddhist Nadendra or Nadajfia was identified by
Prof. Krom with Prapafica, the writer of the Ndgarakrta-
gama.’ Controverting the opinion of Prof. Krom, Dr.
Poerbatjaraka? held that Nadajfia was no other than the
father of Prapafica and the son of Kankamuni. Whoever
he was, he is mentioned in several inscriptions® and he
undoubtedly flourished during the reign of king Hayam
Wuruk in the second half of the fourteenth century A.D.
In the present paper we are concerned with his accomplish-
ments in the science of grammar which has been explicitly
specified here as Candravydkarana. Now this grammar was
written by the celebrated Buddhist scholar Candragemin and

1 TBG, 57 (1916), p. 30. 2 BKI, 78, pp. 442-459.

3 See the inscription on the Mahaksobhya image of Simpang
(Surabaya) in Kern, VG., VII, p. 187f (this has been re-edited by
Poerbatjaraka in BKI, 78, 1922), the Trawulan inscription | in OV, 1918,
Bijalge K, ete.
LITERARY AND EPIGRAPHIC NOTES 109

it enjoyed an unparalleled reputation in and outside India.
It is closely connected with the work of Panini though it
breathes an independent spirit here and there. The earliest
reference to thie Candra school of grammarians occurs in
Bhartrhari's Vdkyapadiye. Hemacandra also in the compila-
tion of his own grammar not only utilised the Astachyayi and
its commentaries but also the grammars of Candra, Saka-
-tayana, Bhoja, Vamana, Jinendra, Indragomin, the Katantra,
etc. Dr. Liebich, who edited the Candravydkarana (Die
grammatik des Candragomin: Sitra, Unddi, Dhatupatha,
Leipzig, 1902) pointed out the interesting fact that the
Dhatupétha of the Katantra (or Kalapaka, Kalapasatra,
Koumaravyakarana) was in reality that of the Candra-system
as modified by Durgasimha, the illustrious commentator on
the Katantra.

In Nepal have been found many important treatises con-
nected with the grammar of Candra. Several texts and
commentaries of this work dated between 700 and 900 A.D.
are preserved in the Tangyur. Just as we find references
to the study of this grammar in Nepal and Tibet, so also
was this work extant in Ceylon, though no original manus-
cript of this book has been discovered there so far. This
is probably due to the fact that about 1200 A.D. a Ceylonese
’ Buddhist monk, Kaéyapa by name, wrote a popular recast
of the Candra grammar called Balavabodha which superseded
the original Candra text. It was published from Colombo
in 1895, The reference to the study of this grammar in
Java in the fourteenth century A.D. brings therefore an addi-
tional testimony to the influence exerted by this great
grammar in a far-flung colony of ancient India. But what
invests the reference in the Javanese inscription with special
importance is the fact that this Candragomin belonged to. the
school of Asanga and is known from Tibetan sources to
have been born in Varendri or North Bengal.‘ It hag been
further stated that Candradvipa in Bengal was named after
that Buddhist savant. It is difficult to say however when
this grammar was carried to Java. The Kelurak and the

4 Schiefner, Tarandth, pp. 148 and 159¢,
110 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

Nalanda inscriptions, the quotation from Venisamhdra in
the old Javanese Mahabharata, the Nagarakrtagama of 1365
A.D., etc., no doubt suggest the contact between Java and
Bengal, but to assign the penetration of this grammar in
Java to any particular epoch is still premature. As Candra-
gomin probably lived in the sixth century A.D.,* all that we
can say at the present moment is that the itinerary of the
grammar began from this time onwards, very probably in
the Pala period. As Taranath says,* “From that time till
now Candragomin’s work has spread widely inasmuch as
orthodox as well as heterodox people study it; but the
Samantabhadra’ disappeared soon, and it is not known if
any copy of it still exists."" The old Javanese inscription
referred to above throws therefore a welcome light on the
cultural contact between Java and Bengal during the epoch
of Hayam Wuruk.

II. King Dharmmasetu and the homeland
of the Sailendras

In 1929, Dr. Stutterheim made some novel and bold
assertions in his A Javanese period in Sumatran history and
these were severely criticised, particularly by Bosch® and
Mus.’ For want of more data which could be utilised on
that occasion, the critics left undecided the problems relating
to Dharmmasetu, and these form the subject of the
present review. It was stated by Stutterheim’® that Dharmma-
setu of the Nalanda inscription’ is no other than the
celebrated Pala king Dharmmapala and that he has been
mentioned in the Kalasan and Kelurak inscriptions under
the name of Dharmmasetu. Even if we admit that the

5 On his date see Vienna Oriental Journal, 1899, pp. 308-315:
TA., 1896, pp. 103-105; Ibid., 1890, p. 319; Belvalkar, Systems of Sanskrit
Grammar, pp. 58-59.

6 Schiefner, Op. cit., pp. 152, 155.

7 The grammar written by Candrakirtti.

8 TBG., 69, pp. 138-151. 9 BEFEO, 28, pp. 515-528.

10 A Javanese period, etc., pp. 10-12 with foot-notes.

11 El. XV, pp. 310-327. It was also published as a Memoir of the
Varendra Research Society by N. G. Majumday.
LITERARY AND EPIGRAPHIC NOTES WW

reading of that name in the Nalanda charter Hirananda
Sastri is correct,'? it has still to be considered that the éloka
in which the name appears in the Kalasan inscription is
extremely stereotyped’® and occurs in the self-same language
in at least a dozen inscriptions of India. For this reference
may be made to: the Kadamba inscription of Niralgi, dated
996-97 Saka (El., XVI, p. 71), the recorda of the Somavaméi
kings of Katak (E/., III, pp. 343, 353, 358), the Vanapalli
plates of Anna Vema, 1300 Saka-samvat (El., Ill, p. 63),
the plate of Govindacandra of Kanauj, dated 1182 Vikrama-
samvat (E/., IV, pp. 99-101). [See also El., V, p. 19; El.,
XVI, p. 228; El., XVIII, p. 232; El., XX, p. 69]. It is
certain, therefore, that Dharmmasetu of Kalasan and Kelurak
inscriptions has nothing to do with its namesake in the
Nalanda charter and the identification has to be dropped.
While this stereotyped passage perhaps removes the base of
Stutterheim's thesis, it also throws some side-light on the
origin of the Sailendra kings of Indonesia. The original dis-
tribution of the plates mentioned above appears to be
Eastern and Southern India, including the Orissan tracts.
The occurrence of the above-mentioned stereotyped passage
in an inscription of the Sailendra dynasty thus becomes
interesting in, connexion with the view of Dr. Majumdar" that
the Sailendras originated from Kalinga, which indeed forms
an enclave between Eastern and Southern India.

lil. The date of a copper-plate (Mus. Solo,
No, 193)
Dr. Poerbatjaraka published the transcription of a record

in OV., 1922, Bijl. L. and stated that it was promulgated in
849 Saka. Dr. Goris,!* however, Proposed to read the year

12 N. G. Majumdar reads: Varmasetu.
13 The éloka runs as follows:
“sarvan evagaminah parthivendran
bhiiyo bhiiyo yacate rajasimhab/
samanyo’ yam dharmmasetur naranam
kale kale palaniyo bhavadbhih//
14 BEFEO, XXXII, pp. 140-141. 15 OV, 1928, pp. 64, 65.
112 HiMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

as 829, but this has recently been contested by Stutterheim’®
who subscribes to the reading of Poerbatjaraka. An exami-
nation of the contents of the inscription shows, however,
that the reading of Dr. Goris is probably the correct one.
Because, among the officials mentioned in the record under
review, we find Dapit, Rayung and Dhanada who are only
noticed in inscriptions of 829 Saka or within a few years of
this date. In some inscriptions prior to 849 Saka, their posts
are held by other persons. Their appearance after 20 years
in a single charter is extremely doubtful and furnishes a new
argument for the reading of Goris. The attention of the
Dutch and Indonesian scholars is invited to this point.

16 TBG., 75, p. 421, fn. 1
On the Source of the Old-Javanese
Ramayana Kakawin

By Manomohan Ghosh

While going through the Indian Influences on the Litera-
ture of Java and Bali’ | found the author drawing attention
to a passage? in canto II of the Kakawin’® of Yogiévara which
resembled very much a stanza in canto Il of the Bhattikavya.
The passage of the Kakawin, as we learn from an English
translation of the Dutch version of the same by Kern, runs as
follows :

‘There was no watery place which was without lotuses.
There were no lotuses which were not full of bees, and the
bees were buzzing. There were no bees which would allow
their songs go unheard.”

The passage in the Bhattikavya is as follows:

Na taj-jalam yan-na sucarupankajam

Na pankajam tad-yad-alinagatpadam/

Na gatpado" sau na jugufija yah kalam
Na gufjitam tan-na jahara yan manah//.

The striking similarity between the two passages even
after one of them had to pass through the media of two
different languages convinced me that the similarity might not
be quite accidental and Yogiévara, the author of the Kakawin,
was most probably acquainted with the Bhatfikavya itself.
Mr. Sarkar however did not view the similarity between the
two passages in this light probably because of Kern's remark
that the author of the Old Javanese Kakawin did not know

1 Published by the Greater India Society, 1934.

2 Indian Influences, p. 180.
3 Placed by scholars sometime between 950 and 1300 A.C. Mr.

Sarkar suggests (Ibid., p. 175) 1094 A.C. as the likely date of composition
of this work.
15
114 MANOMOHAN GHOSH

Sanskrit. But as I found from the excellent summary of
the first nineteen cantos of the Kakawin given in Mr. Sarkar's
work, that the passages occurred as the 19th strophe in canto
Il of both the works I could no longer consider Kem’s
opinion about Yogigvara's ignorance of Sanskrit as conclu-
sive. 1 strongly suspected that Yogigvara was not only
acquainted with Sanskrit and the Bhattikdvya in the original
but that his Kakawin might have been a translation of this
Kunst-epos into the old Javanese language. This hypothesie
led me to examine thoroughly the Bhaftikdvya in the light
of the excellent digest of the Kakawin (up to its 19th canto)
given, by Mr. Sarkar.® This examination has yielded the
following results : ;

|. The plot of the subject matter of the first five cantos
is, even in detail, in wonderful agreement with that of the
first five cantos of the Kakawin. But for the fact that the
number of stanzas or strophes in the corresponding cantos
of the two works is not equal we might consider one work
(up to its 4th canto) to be a sort of replica of the other.
The number in the first four cantos of the two works is as
follows :

Bhatti Kakawin
I ees we = oT 59
f| bes we «55 77
Il ves vee 56 46
IV bes wee 45 above 58

2. The strophes in canto V of the Kakawin which
describe the appearance of Ravana in the Pajficavati in the
guise of an ascetic contain expressions marvellously similar to
those in the corresponding passages of the Bhattikavya. Thus
we have in the Kakawin :—

“He resembled a pure and upright Saiva monk, virtuous
and holy; his head was smoothly shaved except for a little
tuft of hair on the crown.

4 Indian Influences, p. 174. 5 Ibid., pp. 179-94.
THE OLD-JAVANESE RAMAYANA KAKAWIN 5

“His teeth were as white as crystal. He expected to get
a garland of roses(2)’ and a bowl of pumpkin to attach to
his shoulder belt. His monkish robe was beautifully red
and dyed with lac. He proceeded to ask for alms, by which
pretext he could conceal his (base) design.

“While moving on, he mumbled hie prayers and had
pious words in his lips. His glance was gentle and loving
—it was outwardly very friendly and captivating, as if nothing
remained of his demoniac character. Without any interrup-
tion, he wended through the beautiful and solitary wood-
land."’

The corresponding passages in the Bhatti are as follows:

Gate tasmin jalagucih suddhadan Ravanah sikhi/ /
Jafijapiko’ ksamalavan dhadrayo mrdalabunah| / (61)
Kamandalukapdlena sirasé mrjavata/
Samvastrya lakgike vastre matrah sambhandya

dandavan// (62)
Adhiyann-atmavid vidyam dhdarayan maskarivratam /
Vadan bahvangulisphotam bhrikshepam vilokayan// (63)
Sundidargayiguh sdma nijuhnisuh ksapatatam/
Camkramavan samagatya Sitam-iice sukha bhava// (64)

One can easily notice that expressions italicised in the
Bhatti passages have been almost literally translated in the
Kakawin, the author of which appears to have taken as much
from the Bhajti as he could easily assimilate in, his work.
A literal versified translation is surely an almoct impossible
task. Thus it may be assumed that Yogiévara while writing
the Kakawin had the Bhattikavya before him and adopted
the theme of the latter in its details and, as often as possible,
number of expressions as well.

There is yet another passage in canto V of the Kakawin
which betrays a connection with the Bhattikdvya. It deals
with the conversation between Sita and Ravana and is as
follows :

6 Either the Dutch translation or the English version eeems to be
wrong here.
116 MANOMOHAN GHOSH

‘‘Moon’s beauty cannot be compared with yours, because
her charms pass off by the time of the day.

“If the lotus-flowers of the pond...............66 they cannot
yet stand comparison with your beauty; because they close
down and decline on the approach of the night.

“The place where you live is really dangerous, im-
possible for men, a wilderness! Do you not fear the mali-
cious snakes and wild elephants?...............

"You are so exceedingly soft and tender and really 90
charming; the wood has been, as it were, delighted by your
presence. How fortunate is the man, who had been
acknowledged by you as your husband! He must deserve
some praises for possessing you at the present moment.

‘Tl have travelled through other lands of this world, but
I have never come across any one like you; so beautiful you
are indeed! You appear to me at least the most perfect
type of beauty, and my present life is not going to be useless
now that I have known you.”’

With this should be compared the following stanzas from
the Bhatti :

Sayantanim tithipranyah pankajanam divatanim/
Kantim kantya sadatanya hrepayanti éucismita// (65)
Ka tvam-ekakini bhiru niranvayajane vane/ ‘
Ksudhyanto’pyaghasan vyalas-tvam-apalam
katham na va// (66)
Hrdayangama-mirttis-tvam subhagambhavukam
vanam /
Kurvana bhimam-apyetad vada’bhyaih
kena hetuna// (67)
Sukrtam priyakari tvam kam rahasy-upatisthase /
Punyakre-catukaras-te kimkarah suratesu kah// (68)
Pari-paryudadhe ripam adyulokac-ca durlabham/
Bhavatkam drgtavatsvetad-asmasvadhi sujivitam// (69)

Now the Bhajfi strophes, quoted above, show beyond
doubt that the author of the Kakawin has deliberately copied
the contents of the Bhatti and at times made literal transla-
tion of some expressions. Due to the fact that Sangkrit
THE OLD-JAVANESE RAMAYANA KAKAWIN 17

strophes of Bhajti had sometimes to be expanded and
sometimes original strophes were composed, the number of
strophes in the Kakawin and the Bhaji is not identical. The
former work contains 2771 strophes’ and the latter only 1624.

3. An examination of cantos VI-XIX of the Kakawin
reveals that unlike the first five ones their subject-matter
does not correspond canto by canto to that of the Bhatti and
moreover the Kakawin has 26 cantos while the Bhatti has
only 22.

Thus we can conclude finally that the old Javanese
Ramdyana is partially a translation and partially an adapta-
tion of the Bhattikavya and has nothing to do with the
Ramayana of Valmiki or its conjectured extinct translation
in the old Javanese.®

7 Dr. Poerbatjaraka thinks that some interpolations occur in the
Kakawin. This may be one of the reasons for its greater bulk. See
Indian Inflaences, p. 173.

& For conjectures about the origin of the Kakawin see Indian
Influences, p. 174.
NOTICES OF BOOKS

Indian Influences in Old-Balinese Art By Dr. W. F.
Stutterheim—42 pp., 23 plates.—The India Society, London,
1935.

In this latest publication of the India Society, Dr.
Stutterheim has put within a short compass of 42 pages the
leading facts connected with the history and culture of Bali—
one of the most beautiful and interesting islands in Indonesia,
recently very much exploited by tourists. To Indians that
mysterious little island, still a replica of Hindu India of early
times, with its simple faith, primitive rites and native social
customs and life, is of peculiar interest—as it visualises in a
living form a typical image of Ancient India—which has
passed away on the continent. Dr. Suniti Kumar Chatterjee
wrote a series of letters to the Bengali monthly Pravdési, in
which he gave a graphic description of Balinese life with very
intimate and picturesque details, and in which he showed how
many old Hindu customs and ritual-practices still survived in
Bali mostly in pristine forms and sometimes adapted to the
old animistic beliefs of the old Balinese races. Dr. Chatterjee
has shown by an analysis of numerous phases of Balinese life
how Hinduism almost completely imbued the pre-Hinduistic
culture of Bali. Dr. Stutterheim’s book, apparently a rechauffé
of his Dutch work Oudheden van Bali published by Bali
Society for the scientific study of Balinese history and culture
(Kirtya Liefrinck—van der Tuuk, Singaradja, Bali), is an ex-
cellent introduction to the history of the art and culture of the
island and will undoubtedly provoke further studies. And
all lovers of Indian culture are grateful to the author for offer-
ing in this book in a readable and accessible form the main
outlines of Balinese culture—the material for which is buried in
numerous archaeological reports and Jearned articles in anti-
quarian Journals. The records of the antiquities of Bali are
not ap numerous as those of Java, and the available inscrip-
tions and copper plates have not yet been fully studied. The
NOTICES OF BOOKS 119

author is therefore compelled to leave many spaces blank and
to fill in some of them on the basis of analogy and probabilities.
Before the advent of Hinduism, Bali, peopled by a branch of
the Austronesian family (to which the Mundas of India belong),
had not much by way of a political organization. Its simple
life was divided into groups of village communities—~governed
by elders who performed the double function of priests and
administrative heads, in a peculiar form of ancestor worship.
™ Daily life was directed by the souls of the departed ancestors
who were supposed to be dwelling in the mountains. It was
they who lived on at the hidden sources of the rivers, without
whose waters no rice would grow. They were the founders
of the village communities; they had established sta customs
and cared for its growth (Ibid., p. 2)."". The living elders of
the community were charged with the duty of “‘getting into
contact with the souls of the dead, to receive them temporarily
into themselves in order to replenish the waning store of the
community's life-power or to furnish it with extra etrength"’
(Ibid., p. 2). When the souls of the dead ancestors were in-
voked, they were believed ‘‘to provide the community with
the absolutely necessary magic life-power; to further the
growth of rice; to calm the devastating overflowing streams;
to subdue epidemics afflicting the population."’ (Ibid., p. 3).
The sacred acta (Srdddhas) of invoking the spirits of the
ancestors by offering oblations (balis, naivedyus) were per-
formed in, temples—which were enclosed spaces (not shrines
in the sense of the Hindu mandiras of the cult-images) and
were more or less like Yajfia-éalas of Vedic times and con-
tained stones as seats for the souls of the ancestore— ‘upright
stones for the male, and horizontal stones for the female souls”
(Ibid., p. 3). The outer wall was designated mekhalla, the
closed gate with the roof was called gopura, and the structure
for offerings bale-nydsa (Ibid., p. 20). The author interprets
the word bale as the native word for small mandapas. More
probably bale-nydea is the incorrect Sanskrit for bali (offering)
nydsa (deposit)—the place where the offering has to be placed
(nyasta), This evidently corresponds to the Vali-pitha of
Southern Indian. temples—a small pedestal on a Lotus cushion
120 NOTICES OF BOOKS

with a horizontal piece of stone—to hold the offerings to the
deity. Dr. Stutterheim does not cite sufficient details, or any
extracts from Balinese ritual texts to enable one to judge in
what respect the Balinese form of ancestor-worship differs
from the Hindu forms. In the surviving Hindu forms in India,
the rituals of Sraddha, ancestor worship, consist in offering
various forms of oblations (pindas). and gifts preceded by man-
tras to keep out evil spirits (bhita-suddhi) by the preliminary
offering of incense (dhipa), lamp (dipa), holy water (tirtha) and
flowers. Dr. Stutterheim, not giving due weight to the details
of Hindu ancestor-worship, is led to remark that “‘the part
played by Hinduistic priests was not always the. most im-
portant.” ‘True, fully adorned, they had to receive Siva into
themselves in order to transform the flower-speckled water into
holy water (foya-tirtha); also, through recitation of their
mantras accompanied by the steady ringing of theit bell
(ghanta), burning incense (dhipa) and strewing flowers, they
had to consecrate different ritual objects and cleanse the ter
ple court from evil influences. But the actual celebration, the
most important part of the feast—the offering of the hundreds
of colourful sacrificial gifts to the gods—was not performed
by the Brahmanas, but by the folk-priest, the successor of
the highest of the magic village-heads of olden times.” (Ibid.,
p. 21). Our author does not state whether this has been the
custom from time immemorial, or if this has been the current
state of things. Dr. Suniti Kumar Chatterjee during his in-
vestigation into the current religious rites of the Balinese
found out that the old families of Brahmin priests in Bali
have become extinct for sometime, and as no Brahmins have
been imported from India, the duties of the priests are being
performed by a class of priests who are not Brahmins by
birth. The description that Dr. Chatterjee gives of the rites
with ‘six kinds of accessories’ —dhipa, dipa, gandha, pugpa,
phala and toya, corresponds exactly to the paficopacara piija
still current in Hindu India. It is quite possible that owing
to want of trained Brahmin priests, many of the rites have
degenerated and become corrupt, and have in consequence
deviated from the original standards. It is quite possible,
NOTICES OF BOOKS 121

on the other hand, that in unimportant parts of the rites,
some of the old local Polynesian rites may have been adopted
and amalgamated and used as part of the religious cere-
monies and practices. Dr. Chatterjee has noted in the
Balinese rites, as now observed, many differences from the
current Indian rites. He has remarked: ‘‘All their (Bali-
nese) rites are not identical in all respects to the Hindu rites
of our country (India). There are numerous variations in
details which are unknown to us and also to our ritual texts
in Sanskrit. But they are part of the Hinduistic rites of Bali,
and they have very skilfully adopted these rites with the
Sanskrit ritual mantras and the due performance of the
Hinduistic rites current here. They are ignorant of the ‘ten
kinds of accessories’ current in our purdnic forms of worship;
on the other hand, it is difficult for us to follow the ‘ten
kinds of accessories’ used by them. At the same time, their
form of worship and rites entirely corresponds to the same
class of worship or pajd with the help of accessories (upa-
cara) current in India. The rites that were current in India
in primitive times, had evolved, outside the pale of the
Vedic forms of Yajfias, in certain Brahmanical rites, using
numerous accessory objects and appear to have evolved in
differing details in Island-India (Indonesia), perhaps due to
‘contact with ancient Malayan rites and rituals.”’ (‘‘Dvipa-
maya Bharat: Bali-dvipe-Bangali, V1,’’ ‘‘Pravasi,’’ Jyaistha,
1337, pp. 271-272, one of a series of articles recording Dr.
Chatterjee’s impressions of Bali). Dr. Chatterjee’s impres-
sion has been that the rites and rituals of Bali, fundamentally
and in their main outline, are essentially Hinduistic in a
strictly Brahmanical sense, and although in unimportant
details Malayan or Polynesian rites may have crept in—the
present points of difference from the standard Indian
practices are due more to degeneration due to want of
contact with Indian standards and original Sanskrit texts than
anything else. Dr. Stutterheim has remarked, “In former
times, however, where there was constant contact with visit-
ing Brahmanas from India, the mantras must have been pure
in wording and identical with those used by corresponding
16
122 NOTICES OF BOOKS

sects in India.”’ (Ibid., p. 21). Dr. Chatterjee was very much
impressed by the survival of the practice of invoking the
spirit of the divinity through the skilful use of mudras—the
intricate details of which the Balinese Padandas have retained
in a manner and with a_ skill whichis becoming rare in
India itself. Unless the details of the current Hinduistic rites
are examined by an expert ritualist from India and compared
with the Indian prototypes, it is impossible to say to what
extent the native Polynesian rites have overgrown the ancient
Indian practices. For this branch of research, the co-opera-
tion of Indian scholars is essential in order to interpret and
re-construct the nature of the religious history of the Balinese
and to ascertain to what extent, if any, the current Hinduistic
practices in Bali have retained the pre-Hinduistic beliefs and
rituals. It was at one time believed that the existing state
of Balinese culture represents a true picture of Javanese
culture—as it existed before the fall of Hindu culture in Java
owing to the invasion of Islam, and that the section of the
Javanese who did not accept Islamic culture, migrated to
Bali, and is preserving the same state of things as existed
in Java on the eve of the advent of Islam. But this supposi-
tion does not square with the data now furnished regarding
the history of Hindu culture in Java. It is quite true that
after the defeat of Bra Vijaya, the last king of Majapahit,’
in the hands of the Mahomedans in 1478, the members of the
royal family fled to Bali. But the Hindu culture of Bali dates
from very early times. Dr. Stutterheim seems to assume on
rather meagre grounds that Bali received its Hindu culture
not direct from India but from Java in the eight and
ninth centuries—‘Thus we may accept that the eighth
and ninth centuries were a period of strong Javanization for
Bali, which also meant secondhand Hinduization.”’ (/bid.,
p. 13). Of course, no tangible monumental or epigraphic
evidence of early Hindu culture in Bali (such as that of the
Milavarman Inscription of Borneo) has yet come to light.
The charters and foundations of the Balinese royal dynasty
—that of the Varmadevas, do not date before the !0th

century—and our inference as to the state of Hindu culture
NOTICES OF BOOKS 123

previous to that date must be somewhat conjectural. The
author while he suggests (p. 21) “constant contact with
visiting Brahmanas from India’’ has some doubts as to the
possibility of Bali having received its Hindu culture direct
from India. ‘‘Should we nevertheless believe that at some
time there were as well at work in Bali direct influences from
India?*’ (/bid., p. 13). The scriptural texts (yet to be studied)
and the religious rites and ceremonies (very imperfectly in-
vestigated up till now) are our only data on this interesting
problem. Two very significant evidences appear, to this
writer, to throw some light on the subject. Over ten years
ago—this writer was the first to suggest that the Meru style
of temple architecture and ritual ‘poles’—so common in Bali
came from India, and that they were the structural agnates
to similar structures of “‘a pyramidal system of super-posed
storeys’’ met with in Nepal. It was at one time believed
that this form of Meru temples came to Nepal from China.
But the testimony of a Chinese pilgrim has given the quietus
to this theory. Somewhat similar slope-roofed temples have
survived in Kerala,—in the sanctuaries of Cochin and
Travancore, which, by the way, preserve many early relics
of ancient Indian culture which have disappeared from other
parts of India. Moojen's excellent introduction to Balinese
Architecture (Kunst op Bali, Adi poestaka, 1926) has not
unfortunately led to further searches in the field. The pre-
valence of the Meru style of temples in Bali, easily leads
cne to believe that it is either a characteristic Balinese form,
or the evidence of an early contact with India where the
form prevailed in pre-lithic periods of Continental Indian
Architecture. But the replicas on some Javanese stone
reliefs—of Meru temples seem to prove that the style was
once current in Java also, and it must have been a gift from
India common to Java and Bali. In Java the development of
stone architecture appears to have supplanted the earlier
forms of wooden architecture, possibly of the Meru type,—
which has survived in Bali. Another significant item con-
nected with the funeral rites current in Java appears to have
a link with India proper: Ovr author refers (p. 23) to a
$24 NOTICES OF BOOKS

Balinese custom of erecting an effigy of a dead king over the
ashes collected from the remains. ‘Sometime after this
ceremony, which corresponded to the Indian érdddha, it was
customary to consecrate a special piece of ground, to dig a pit
and bury therein the conserved part of the king’s ashes . . . .
when the pit was closed, they placed over it a stone image.
This image represented the deity whose incarnation the
dead king was supposed to have been during his life time.
But certain deviations from the traditional representations of
that god indicated that the figure was not intended to be an
image of the god himself, but only one of his incarnations.”’
(lbid., p. 23). In Bengal, we have a curious custom of erecting
a wooden effigy (painted in different colours) in connection
with the departed soul. This is carried in procession, with
great éclat, to the accompaniment of music, and then im-
planted at a consecrated place where other like effigies of
departed ancestors (>?) have been set up. This efhgy is
known as the Vrsa-Kastha the ‘‘Bull-chaft.’’ It is a crudely
carved efigy with human faces and other decorations in the
different parts of the ‘‘shaft.'’ Its shape and primitive deco-
rative patterns seem to correspond to the curved staffs with
Malayo-Polynesian decorations of human effigies from the
island of Sumatra (see Figs. 6 and 7, Plate XXV, C.M. Pleyte :
Indonesian Art), Comparison may also be made with an
efigy from Bali, reproduced in Dr. Juynboll’s Katalog des
Ethnographischen Reichs Museums, Band VII, Bali und
Lombok (Plate XII,Fig. 1, 1912.) Dr. Stutterheim does not
give us sufficient details of the rituals connected with its
installation as current in Bali and it is impossible to say to
what extent this significant funeral ritual in Bali has pre-
served the details of the original Indian model. Dr. G.
Krause in his Bali (Insel Bali, Band II, 1920) published some
photographs of funeral processions (plates 138 and 139) which
remind one of similar funeral processions in Bengal. The
effigy of the bull (vursa) is evidently used in Balinese funerals
(see Krause, Bali, Band H, plates 154, 155). These painted
effigies of Bulls are made of stucco on a bamboo, or wooden
framework, and have very significant relation to the Indian
NOTICES OF BOOKS 125

prototypes. In a érdddha ceremony, connected with the
death of an important personage, it is usual to purchase and
liberate a family of Bull with cows as its spouses—as a
symbol of liberation; the liberation of the animals (vrsa-
mocana) is intended to secure the liberation (mocana, mokga)
of the soul of the deceased from the cycle of re-birth. It is
usual to mark the body of the bull and its spouses with the
symbol of the trisala, in order to distinguish the liberated
group from other domesticated cattle that may stray into the
streets. Before they are marked, or rather branded with the
symbol it is usual to tie up the Bull and the cows to several
wooden posts (Yapa-Kastha, also called the Vrga-Kastha) one
of which is the principal one, used for the Bull, the other
being minor or subsidiary ones (Upa-yapa), In some of the
smrti texts (manuals for rituals), it 1s stated that where it is
not possible to secure the liberation of a family of Bulls, the
rite may be performed through the use of stucco or straw
effigies. In the Garuda-purdna, in its chapter on Preta-Kelpa,
the expiration of the period of impurification (caused by the
advent of Death) the Bull and four calves after being branded
with the mark of the ‘‘trident’’ and the “‘circle’’ should be
let off. In the absence of the Bull, its substitute may be used.
Thus it is enjoined: ‘“‘If on the eleventh day the bull cannot
be secured, the wise should liberate effigies made of straw
(Kuga-grass) or of stucco.”’ ‘“‘If at the time prescribed for
liberating the bull, the same is not available, the same can
be liberated in effigies made of earth or grass." It appears,
that owing to dearth of sufficient cattle for such funerary
rites, it has been the custom in Bali to offer stucco effigies
of bulls—instead of in flesh and blood.

But we are straying into topics which form one only of
the many ritual and ceremonial phases of Indo-Balinese
culture. Reserving fuller treatment of this topic for another
occasion, we are happy to turn to the images, statuary, and
temples of Bali. Our author does not deal very much with
the Balinese temples, but cites and discusses some very in-
teresting specimens of sculpture. Indeed, temples and images
stand on a somewhat peculiar footing in Indo-Balinege
126 NOTICES OF BOOKS

culture. Temples with images installed in the gerbhagrha,
such as we find in numerous examples in India, do not
appear to have survived in Bali. It is quite poesible
that temples made of wood or other impermanent
materials were constructed in the earlier periods and
have not survived the ravages of time. One is inclined
to postulate the existence of such temples with images
in earlier times, otherwise it is impossible to explain
the surviving specimens of images in stone, of which some
very peculiar forms are illustrated in the volume. In the
existing stone temples there is no garbhagrha or any arrange-
ment for installing an image, or an icon. The characteristic
forms of worship in Bali, as we have noted, are the presen-
tation of balis or offerings in an empty shrine—the inner
part of the typical Balinese temples. The outer gates of
these temples are imposing gopurams derived from, but not
actually following, the Indian or the Javanese models.
Except for the decorative motifs on the outer faces of the
gopurams, there is no room for iconic sculpture for the current
Balinese form of worship. Yet the specimens cited in
the volume ate icons in stone, which must have been
worshipped inside some temples which have now ceased to
exist. The examples cited by the author fall into three
groups: (1) images proper, (2) deified images of saints, or
kings, (3) decorative motifs for water-spouts. A seated
image of Siva (8th-10th century) illustrated on Plate | re-
calls related images in Java. It may have been imported
from Java rather than executed locally by Balinese sculptors.
For a distinctive local style is apparent in the series of
deified images of seated and standing kings and queens of
which six examples are cited. Based on finer Javanese
models, they are crude in conception as well as in execution
and lacking in a general sense of proportion and finish.
The remarkable head (Plate IV) with a tall Jatad, or
Karandamukuta bearing an effigy of Kirtimukha, with a
so-called ‘‘Khmér’’ smile, may represent either Siva, or a
Saivaite Prince. The technique and conception closely
follow the models of Southern Indian bronze images. Our
NOTICES OF BOOKS 127

author writes; ‘The open eyes distinctly point to a re-
presentation of a king’ (Pl. IV). There are numerous images
of Siva with ‘‘open eyes.’’ The so-called lion’s head on the
Jata-mukuta is unquestionably an effigy of a Kirtimukha—
the protruding tongue is mixed up with the strings of pearls
schematised to represent “‘entrails’’ (vide similar treatment
of Kirtimukha on a stone pillar, Subramanya temple, Tan-
jore, and numerous temples in Mysore). But the most
important examples of icons cited by the author are the
types of a peculiar catus-kdya marti of the Hindu Trinity
never met within India. In most of the Indian images of
the trimarti the portion below the breast is never represent-
ed. In the Balinese examples, of which the finest example
is reproduced on Plate XI, the whole body with elaborate
garments with decorated scarves is represented. The
treatment of the crown in graded stages, stimulating the
form of an expanded lotus—reminds one of similar treat-
ment in Cambodian and Chinese sculptures. We have four-
faced images in Caumukha temples of the Jainas, but ex-
cepting the Karachi Museum Brahma in metal—we have
nothing to offer in India to resemble this manner of treat-
ment. It reminds one of the famous wooden composite
image of Kwannon in the Metropolitan Museum of Art,
New York. Of the spout-heads (Jala-tunda), the most re-
markable example is one representing the death of Hiranya-
kagipu (Plate XVIII) which the author ascribes to the 13th
or 14th century. It challenges comparison with the Javanese
Visnu on Garuda (Erlanga as Vigsnu) (Museum of
Modjokerta), and in spite of its florid decorations leaning to
the baroque, is a tour de force of remarkable quality. If it
was made in Bali, Balinese stone-sculpture must have
attained a fine level of excellence. Similar remarks apply
to the beautiful asta-mukha-linga (Plate XTX) a conception
familiar in the texts but rare in plastic examples. But to us
the finest example of Balinese sculpture cited in the volume
is the moving conception of the amrta-manthana depicted
on the face of a Holy water vessel in stone (Pl. XVII) from
Pedjeng. It has all the mystery, all the skill, all the entranc-
128 NOTICES OF BOOKS

ing beauty, all the epic quality of Classic Indian Art at its
best. Another sculpture, a spout-head deserves special
mention. It is the figure of a “‘Rsi’’ (Plate XVI) with
matted locks carrying the efhgy of another figure. Moat
probably it represents Bhagiratha carrying the Ganges
(Ganga-devi). The treatment of the matted locks in fattened
shape is peculiar but recalls similar treatment in Indian
prototypes. The author ignores another type of Balinese
sculpture, the indigenous polychrome wooden figures of the
Malayo-Polynesian School. The famous Hanuman and
numerous effigies of Visnu riding on Garuda—lend to the
primitive Balinese School a peculiar flavour which deserved
a place in the volume. We are’ grateful to the author for
all he has been able to give us, and we have no doubt his
excellent presentation of the general features of Balinese
culture will provoke further interest and study.

O. C. GANGOLY

The Colas: By Prof. K. A. Nilakanta Sastri, M.A., Pro-
fessor of Indian History and Archxology, Madras University!
Vol. I, Madras, 1935.

The period of the Colas occupies a unique place in the
history of Ancient India. As the author of the scholarly
volume under notice eloquently observes, it was' the most
creative period of South Indian history,’’ when ‘‘the whole of
South India was for the first time brought under the sway of
a single government”’ and ‘‘the Tamil country reached heights
of excellence never again reached in the succeeding ages’’......
(Preface, p. v). While the oldest notices of the Colas go back
to the grammarian Katyayana, their history comes down almost
to the great period of Muslim invasions in the early part of
the 14th century. It is, however, not only in time, but also
in space, that the history of the Colas fills a large part of
the canvas of South Indian history. Especially, in the great
NOTICES OF BOOKS 129

age of Cola expansion, which commenced in the [0th century,
the tiger-crested banner of these kings was carried far beyond
the limits of India into Ceylon and the Laccadives on the one
side, and Indo-China and Insulindia on the other.

To trace the history of such a dynasty from the earliest
times, requires, it is evident, very high qualifications on the
part of the writer. In the present work the author shows
abundant evidence of his possession of such qualities. We
find here complete mastery of fact and high linguistic equip-
ment in the author's native Tamil combined with sound judg-
ment. Frequently the author quotes long extracts from
original authorities and adds his own textual and other com-
ments which enhance the value of his contributions.

The present work brings down the history of the Colas
from the earliest times to 1070 A.C., which marked the advent
of the so-called Calukya-Cola dynasty. The first chapter is
aptly devoted to the examination of the sources of history.
For the early Colas, as Mr. S. justly observes, the main source
consists of the Tamil literature of the age of the third Sangam,
which, unfortunately, cannot be made to yield at present an
ordered sequence of events. The authorities for the Colas of
the Imperial line, beginning with Vijayalaya, have been pro-
perly investigated by the author under the heads—'inscrip-
tions’, ‘monuments’, ‘coins’ and ‘general literature’. We
cannot, however, help thinking that his estimate of the Cola
monuments and coins might have been fuller, nor are we
convinced that he has done full justice to Professor Jouveau-
Dubreuil’s scholarly monograph Archéologie du sud de I’Inde.
The second chapter, called ‘Early Notices’, after giving a
preliminary account of the country and the, etymology of the
name brings together the references in Katyayana’s grammar
and the Agokan edicts along with the Maurya passage in
Mamulanar and references in the Periplus, the Geography of
Ptolemy and the Pali literature. These scattered references
might well have been incorporated in the two succeeding
chapters called ‘The Colas and Early Tamil Literature’ and
‘Government and Social Life in the Sangam Age’. For, as
_ the author rightly points out, the two sets of date agree with
17
130 NOTICES OF BOOKS

each other to a surprising extent. However that may be, the
author’s incisive analysis helps to correct, at many points, the
well-known work of Kanakasabhai Pillai, whose conclusions,
as he properly observes, are based on materials that had not
been subjected to any proper criticism. We thus learn that
the Cola Karikala's conquests were practically confined to the
Kaveri valley, while the story of his constructing embankments
along that river turns out to be a late legend. What is more
important, the famous group of Five Great Tamilian Assem-
blies controlling the king appears to be a figment of Kanaka-
sabhai's imagination, on which later writers have built elabo-
rate conclusions with little relation to reality. Well might the
author exclaim (p. 83 n.): “Aho nirankugatvam utpreksayah.”

With the accession of Vijayadlaya, the first of the line of
the Imperial Colas, the wealth of material enables the historian
to trace a connected narrative of events. Chapter VI deals
adequately with Vijayalaya and his son Aditya I, whose con-
quests are illustrated by a useful sketch-map. Chapter VII
deals similarly with the reign of Parantaka I, the varying extent
of his kingdom being illustrated with the help of another
sketch-map.

The reigns of Rajaraja the Great (Ch. IX) and his eon
Rajendra I (Ch, X) are treated by the author with patriotic
but not unbecoming enthusiasm. These two Grand Monarchs,
according to Mr. S. (p. 220), stood in much the same, relation
as Philip II of Macedon and his son Alexander. Rajaraja |
was the greatest among the empire-builders of South India”
(p. 223). Of Rajaraja’s greatest monument, the Rajarajegvara
temple at Tanjore, wei are told (p. 221) that “‘it is the most
beautiful specimen of Tamil architecture at its best.’” The
narrative of the wars and conquests of Rajaraja has been well
done, but the author's attempt to minimise the atrocities of
the Crown Prince Rajendra’s campaign against the Western
Calukyas hardly carries conviction. The reign of Rajendra |
is treated by the author with his usual thoroughness and skill.
As regards the Ceylon campaign of this king, the somewhat
meagre references in the Cola inscriptions are supplemented by
the full and lurid description in the Mahavamsa and even
NOTICES OF BOOKS 131

archaeological remains are requisitioned to testify to it. In
dealing with the expedition to the Ganges, the author takes
the opportunity not only to correct at various places Hultzsch’s
reading and translation of the original inscriptions, but also
to criticise the views of Prof. S. K. Aiyangar and the late
Messrs. R. D. Banerji and V. Venkayya on various matters of
identification and interpretation. We notice in particular that
Mr. S., agreeing with Mr. Banerji, rejects (Note A to Ch. X)
Dr. Aiyangar's identification of Dandabhukti with Bihar and
postulation of a Mahipala of Otta different from the Pala king
of Bengal. On the other hand, following Aiyangar, he agrees,
as against Mr. Banerji, that Mahipala of Candakausika drama
is not the Pala king but the Gurjara Pratihara sovereign of
that name, so that there is no case for Banerji’s supposition
that Mahipala inflicted a check upon Rajendra's forces. Mr.
S.’s account of the most spectacular and the least enduring of
Rajendra’s campaigns—the campaign against Kadaram (or,
rather, against the Sailendra Empire) is necessarily based on
the learned paper of Dr. Ccedés (BEFEO, XVIII, No. 6), but
he has also utilised the researches of other scholars, specially
of Rouffaer, whose illustrated map along with that of Qoedés
is reproduced in the present work. Mr. S.’s own remarks on
the nature and results of the campaign are expressed with his
usual caution and good sense.

The same thoroughness and critical acumen are noticeable
in the last two chapters (Chs. XI and XII) bearing the titles—
‘The successors of Rajendra’ and ‘The accession of Kulottunga
I’. In the first-enamed chapter he assesses the nature and
results of the two outstanding campaigns of the period, viz.,
the sanguinary campaigns against Ceylon and the Western
Calukyas. In the last chapter, he sifts with his usual] care
the varying and often contradictory evidences of the Tamil
inscriptions and the Sanskrit and Tamil literary authorities
regarding the circumstances under which the first sovereign
of the Calukya-Cola dynasty ascended the throne. The
appendix consists of a valuable list of inscriptions, chronologi-
cally arranged, of the Cola and connected dynasties down to
the time of Adhirajendra, along with a synopsis of their con-
132 NOTICES OF BOOKS

tents but not of the Tamil historical introductions. An
Index—extending nearly over hundred pages—brings this
useful volume to a close.

We have noticed a few blemishes: ‘Tdardndth’ (this mis-
transliteration occurs throughout) is made responsible for the
story of Bindusara’s conquests in the Deccan and South India.
Such forms as ‘Satiyapute’ (p. 28), ‘Varendra’ (p. 252),
‘Macdonnel’ (p. 283), ‘Oxyrhynchus’ (p. 620) should be recti-
fied in a future edition. The location of Takkanalada (map
opposite to p. 248) should be correctly given. The absence of
a sufficient number of diacritical marks, which accounts for
the form ‘Coedes’, should be made good. These and other
blemishes, however, do not detract from the high merit of
‘The Colas’, which is bound to remain for a long time to come
the standard work on the subject. We await the publication
of the second volume with great interest.

U. N. GHOSHAL

Teachings from the Bhagavad-Cita. By Hari Prasad
Shastri, D.LITT.

This is a brochure on the fundamental teachings of the.
Bhagavad-Gita. The author has accepted the portion of these
teachings capable of universal and eternal application: He has
omitted the teachings which are peculiar to the then religious
and social conditions of India. Everybody would agree with
the author that Gita is a divine gospel for the whole of
humanity, for it breathes in every sentence high spirituality
and speaks of the high spiritual vision to which Reality stands
unmasked. “It emphasises the Universal Truth which is not
touched by time." The message that was given by the Gita
could have this enduring effectiveness, because it comes from
the Supra-mental consciousness, The message of the Gita is
not peculiar to itself. It cannot be so. It originates from a
height which, if anybody can open it in himself, will enable
him to realise its universality. The teachings of the Gita haye
NOTICES OF BOOKS 133

directly or indirectly influenced the spirituality of the whole
East. It is now inspiring the spirituality of the West. We
find in it the full gospel of life. The author has truly said,
**Though given in India by a great Hindu Teacher, the Gita
is not exclusively a Hindu book.’ Its teachings are the same
as those of the higher Christianity, of Islam, of Mahayana
Buddhism, of Tacism. The Gita has this universal character,
because it is given by the Divine in Man which rises above
human limitations and can see the face of truth in silence be-
yond all] limitations of race and creed.

The author thinks that the Gita teaches Monism and
accepts Reality to be the Supreme Absolute, itself attribute-
less, but allowing a part of itself to go into manifesta-
tion. It draws back again the manifestation into it. There
is a cyclic manifestation in space and time of the Absolute.
The author thinks that this is the personal God of the
Christians, Muslims and the Amitabha Buddha of the Maha-
yaniste. The personal God is the substance of the world. It
has two natures :—{I) Pard, the finite spiritual selves, and
(2) Apard, the creative order of the evolutes. In India,
philosophy is not only the luxury of thinking; it has also a
spiritually pragmatic significance. It has its application to
life to make it free from all contraries of existence.

The contraries are inevitable in the order of change or
‘evolution, and a certain resistance is sure to be felt there.
This resistance serves a spiritual purpose in enabling us to
wake up the silent spirit in Man and in enabling him to rightly
appraise things. Nature gives the indication of the true law
of life, namely, that in natural divided course of life Peace
cannot be found. Main is Supra-natural in essence. His
experience in earthly existence should foster this lost sense.
Paradise is lost in our ignorance, but the play of ignorance in
creation is not the final Truth, there is the final urge in life to
regain the Paradise, by removing the sense of division and
partialities and by the divine vision and the divine elasticity of
life which resistance should wake up.

The book has analysed all the 18 chapters of the Gita and

gives good translations of the verses with notes to help the
“134 . NOTICES OF BOOKS

continuity of thought. In the notes the author has sometimes
indulged in comparative studies of the meanings of forms
used in the Gita and in the writings of the western thinkers.

The book provides happy reading and one who has a
philosophical discipline will find in it a helpful guide to the
understanding of the Divine message. We are glad to find
another edition of the Gita. The more its catholic teachings
are widely spread, the better it is for humanity.

M. 5.
BOOKS RECEIVED

THe GREATER INDIA SocieTY acknowledges with thanks the

HH.

12.

13.
14.

receipt of the following books, periodicals, reports,
pamphlets, etc., during the last six months.

Bulletin de l’Ecole Francaise d’Extréme-Orient, t.
XXXIII, Fasc. 2, t. XXXIV, Fasc. 1, Hanoi.

A Newly-Explored Route of Ancient Indian Cultural
Expansion (introducing some new views on the History
of the Sailendra Empire of Indonesia): By H. G.
Quaritch Wales, London, 1935.

Journal of the Annamalai University, Vol. IV, No. 2,
Annamalainagar, 1935, Vol. V, No. 2, Annamalainagar,
1936,

Sumatra: By E. M, Loeb, Vienna, 1935.

Louis Finot et VEcole Frangaise d’Extréme-Orient,
Hanoi, 1935.

Dynasties et Histoire de ’Inde depuis Kaniska jusqu’ aux
invasions musulmanes;: By L. de la Vallée Poussin,
Alamkdara-Kaustubha: Ed. by Sivaprasid Bhatta-
charya, Rajshahi, 1934.

The Early History of Ceylom: By G. C. Mendis,
Calcutta, 1935.

The Unity of Mankind: By M. Winternitz, Bolepur.
Italy and Ethiopia (Carnegie Endowment for Inter-
national Peace): New York, 1935,

Tijdschrift voor Indische Taal-, Land-, en Volkenkunde,
d. LXXV, afl. 4, Batavia, 1935.

Bijdragen tot de Taal-, Land-, en Volkenkunde van
Nederlands-Indié, d. 93, ‘s-Gravenhage.

Djaw4, 15 Jaarg., no. 4 & 5, Jogjakarta, 1935.

Java ke Hindu Sahitya ke kuch mukhya grantho ka
paricay evam un ko aitihasik upayogitd (in Hindi) :
By Bahadur Chand Chhabra, Prayag.

Indian Historical Quarterly, Vol. XI, nos. 3 & 4, Calcutta.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.

23.

24.

25.
26.

27.

28.

29.
30.

31.

32.
33.
34.
35.

BOOKS RECEIVED

Journal of Indian History, Vol. X/ll, pts. 1, 2, 3;
Vol. XIV, pts. 1, 2, 3, Madras.

The Excavations in the Citadel of Anuradhapura,
Memoirs of the Archaeological Survey of Ceylon, Vol.
Ili: By S. Paranavitana, Colombo, 1936.

Indian Culture, v. II, n. 4, Calcutta, 1936.
Bibliographie Bouddhique, t, III, Paris.

Ostasiatische Zeitschrift, N.F., 11 Jahrg., heft 1/2, 3/4,
5, Berlin, 1935.

On the Sexagenary Cycle of the Tibetans: By A. von
Staél-Holstein, Peiping, 1935.

Inleiding tot de Ethnologie van de Indische Archipel:
By J. Ph. Duyvendak, Batavia, 1935.

Annual Report (1935) of the Division of Intercourse
and Education (Carnegie Endowment for International
Peace): By Nicholas Murray Butler, New York, 1936.
Verhandelingen van het Koninklijk Genootschap van
Kunsten en Wetenschappen, d. LX XII, vierde stuk: By
J. van Kan, Bandoeng, 1935.

Srimad Bhagavat Gita (Chapt. /): By R. Vasudeva
Row, Madras, 1935.

Undermining Foundations: By Nicholas Murray Butler,
New York, 1935. '
Bibliotheca Buddhica, XXI: Sphuftartha Abhidharma-
kogavyadkhya of Yasomitra, 2nd Kogasthana :.Ed. by U.
Wogihara and Th. Stcherbatsky, Leningrad, 1931.
Suvarnaprabhdsa (Das Goldglanz-Satra) I-Ill: By W.
Radloff, Leningrad, 1930.

Zapiski, V., Leningrad, 1935.

Bibliotheca Buddhica, XVIII: Suvarnaprabhasa, VII-
Vi.

New Light on the Holy Bible: By M. S. Ramaswami
Aiyar, Madras.

The Tamil that Jesus Spoke: Do.
Miscellaneous Essays: Do.
A Tamil Pun of St. Paul: Do.

Biblical Reference to the Maurya
Dynasty of India: Do.
36.

37,

39.

4|.
42.

BOOKS RECEIVED 137

New Light on the Holy Bible
(Reply to a Critic): Do.
The Welsh National Anthem, a Tamil Song: Do.
Was Jesus Christ a flesh-eater or a
vegetarian) : Do.
Was Jesus Christ a Vigvakarma Brahmana?: Do.
Annals of the Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute,
vol. XVII, pt. I, Poona, 1935.
The Buddha Prabha, vol. JV, no. /.

The Karnatak Historical Review, vol. IJ, no. /.

Printed and published by Sj. J. C. Sarkhel, at the Calcutta Oriental Press,

9, Panchanan Ghose Lane, Calcutta.
ERRATA

(Vol. Ill, No. 1.)

Page line for read

6 13 This Thus
8 24 . ,

14 21 Rarga Harsa
16 38 Daksa Yakea
17 19 Damauanti Damayani
. fn, 1.3 with’ at
- » 7 advanced advance
" » 1.10 Society Society’:
” » 1.12 @uure ; ceuvre
21 30 Crientalist Orientalis
24 18 dresesd dressed
38 2i IV. 18. 6. IV. 21.6
4] 2 claritatis claritas
» 24 vibhati bhati
43 8 mourn mourned

RE fn. 48 after ‘on’. Add. ‘68-60"
NOTICE TO SUBSCRIBERS

Subscribers are kindly asked to note that their annual
subscriptions to the Journal for the current year expire with
the present issue. !t is earnestly requested that their subs-
criptions for the next year may be sent to the Manager at
2!, Badur Bagan Row, Calcutta, on or before the 31st
December next.

REVISED RATES OF SUBSCRIPTIONS from. next
year are Rs, 4/8/- or 8./6d. inclusive of postage in place
of the present rates of Rs. 4/- or 89. exclusive of postal
charges.

Manager, “Greater India Seciety,

21, Badur Bagan Row,
Calcutta.
JOURNAL OF THE GREATER INDIA SOCIETY
JuLys 1956

CONTENTS
Articles: Page

Contributions from the Mahavamsa to our
knowledge of the Medizeval culture of

Ceylon (il) eee vee ees 139
By Dr. Wilhelm Geiger.
The Terminal Stiipa of the Barabudur ves 158
By Dr. J. Przyluski.
Kufjarakufijadega and the Changal Inscription eee 170
By Dr. Bahadur Chand Chhabra.
Veda and Avesta (II)... ves wee vee 178

By Dr. Batakrishna Ghosh.
Comment and Criticism

(i) ‘‘The Study of Javanese literature in India’’ 188
By Mr. Himansu Bhusan Sarkar.
(ii) A Correction see eee 196
By Mr. Himansu Bhusan Sarkar.
Notices of Books wee 197

J]. GONDA, The Javanese \ Version of the Bhagavad-
Gita, (S. K. De) ; B. M. GOSLINGS, Gids in het Volken-
kunde Museum, XIII, (H. B. SARKAR); J. PH.
DUYVENDAK, Inleiding tot de ethnologie van de
Indische Archipel, (H. B. SARKAR); R. H. VAN
GULIK, Hayagriva, The Mantrayanic Aspect of Horse-
cult in China and Japan (J. N. BANERJEE); J.
GONDA, Agastyaparwa,!(H. B. SARKAR); Koninklijke
Vereeniging Kolonial Instituut, 1935 (H. B. SARKAR);
ELIZABETH SHARPE, The India that is India, (K. N.);
HARI PRASAD SHASTRI, Book of Ram, the Bible of
India (K. N.).
Obituary Notice.
Dr. E. Obermiller wee
By Prof. Dr. Th. Stcherbatsky, Ph. D.
Extraots from the Annual Report of the Society
for the year 1935-36
Publioations of Cognate Interest in other Journals

211

214
219
THE JOURNAL

OF THE

GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

Vou: III duty, 1936 No: 2

Contributions from the Mahavamsa to our

knowledge of the Mediaeval Culture

of Ceylon

By Dr. Wilhelm Geiger.
[Continued from JGIS., Vol. II, no. 2.]
Ul

I. THE KING AND THE ROYAL COURT.

2. Court-life.

19. The town or village where the king had his residence
is called rajadhani (royal city). It is the capital of the king-
dom. The oldest capital was Anuradhapura, situated near
the Malvatu-oya, in a plain which could be cultivated by
artificial irrigation. It was a village founded, according to
tradition, by one of Vijaya’s companions in the time of the
first Aryan immigration (Mhus. 7.43). Pandukabhaya, the
fourth Sinhalese king, is said to have founded-a city near
Anuradhapura and to have made it his residence. The city
was fortified and the ancient wall and ditch are still traceable,
but the area it covers is comparatively small, hardly more
than fifty acres. Nearly all the ruins of the splendid monas-
tic monuments lie outside the fortification. But from that
time onwards Anuradhapura has been a sacred place for the
140 WILHELM GEIGER

Sinhalese people; so it was even in later times when it ceased
to be the seat of the royal court; it bore the name of
mila-rajadhdni (the original capital). It suffered much from
the invasions of the Damilas, the population decreased more
and more, and the sacred buildings went to decay. In our
chronicle the situation is thus described as it was in the 12th
century (Mhos. 78.98.) The great Dagobas, the Lohapasada,
the palaces and monasteries aforetime destroyed by the
Colas, were ruined and the ruins overgrown with trees. Bears
and panthers were dwelling there and the ground of the jungle
scarce offered a foothold by reason of the heaps of bricks
and earth. Parakkamabahu | bestowed care upon the restora-
tion of Anuradhapura. In two. different passages (74.1 sq.
and 78.96 sq.) an account is given of his enterprise. He sent
to Anuradhapura a high dignitary who restored within a short
time the walls and the streets, the palaces and the gardens,
the ruined Dagobas and the Lohapasada and many other
buildings. It seems, however, that the work was not com-
pletely executed, for about a century later prince Vijayabahu
(IV) betook himself to Anuradhapura, had the mighty forest
round about the Thiiparama and all the other sacred places
felled and these places embellished with new buildings
(88.80 sq.). But apparently he did not complete the restora-
tion of the most sacred Ruvanvali Dagoba, for he appointed’
a prominent priest to look after his work.

The second capital was Pulatthinagara, now Polonnaruva.
The town is first mentioned in the 7th century (Mhus. 44.122)
and was a temporary’ residence of Aggabodhi IV (658-74 A.D.)
and later on of some other kings of the 8th, 9th and 10th
centuries (46.34, 48. 74, 50.9, 54.68), chiefly as a refuge when
the invasions of the Damilas were threatening. In the reign
of Vijayabahu I (1070-1114 A.D.) Pulatthinagara definitely
became the capital of the kingdom. Before that time the
Colas had taken possession of the northern half of Ceylon
and the power of the Sinhalese rulers was restricted to the
southernmost provinces. But Kitti, the later Vijayabahu,
after some vain efforts, finally succeeded in defeating and ex-
pelling the Colas and in restoring the Sinhalese kingdom (G. C.
CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 141

Mendis, Early History of Ceylon, pp. 55, 74). However he
did not make Anuradhapura his residence, but Pulatthinagara.
It offered more security against the Damilas and was of greater
strategic importance, being farther off from the western. coast
of the island and nearer to the frontier of Rohana.

The last king who resided in Pulatthinagara was the cruel
Kalinga usurper Magha. In, these disturbed times some of
those isolated rocks, which are so frequent in the Ceylonese
lowland, had been fortified by prominent Sinhalese who wish-
ed to keep their independence, as the Subha mountain in the
Maya-rattha and the Govindasela in Rohana. King Vijaya-
bahu Ill (1232-36 A.D.), who succeeded in restoring the royal
power at least in the Mava country had his residence in
Jambuddoni, i.e., Dambadeniya near Kurunegala. Later
capitals were Hatthigiripura, i.e., Kurunegala, Gangasiripura,
i.e., Gampol, in the 14th century and Kotté near Colombo up
to the 16th century. The last royal residence of the Sinhalese
kings in the Portuguese and Dutch periods and when the
Englishmen arrived in Ceylon, was Sirivaddhana, the
modern Kandy.

The city of Pulatthinagara was considerably larger than
that of Anuradhapura. It had the length of about one mile
from North to South and a breadth of half a mile from East
.to West. On the Western side it dominates the Tdpa-veva,
on the three other sides walls and ditches can still be easily
traced. As in Anuradhapura, a good deal of the ruins lie
outside the city. They have been excavated to a large
extent and they make the splendour and wealth of the
mediaeval Sinhalese royalty manifest to the modern, visitor.

20. The Royal Palace (pasdda, rdjageha, raja-
mandira, rafifie ghara, antepura) with the surrounding court-
yard (rajangana) was a citadel within the city and had its own
ramparts. The remainder of the palace in Anuradhapura may
perhaps be the building which is now traditionally called
Gedi-g@ and which is situated near the centre of the city.
Much larger was the citadel in Pulatthinagara with the splen-
did palace built by Parakkamabahu I. It measures about 350
yards in length and 250 yards in breadth.
142 WILHELM GEIGER

The description of Parakkamabahu's palace in the
chronicle (Mhus. 73.61 sq.) is quite in accordance with a
common model and we cannot make out from it a true idea
of the building. The technical expressions occurring in the
passage are met with in literature wherever a palace is
spoken of (A. K. Coomaraswamy, Early Indian Architec-
ture, II] Palaces in Eastern Art Ill, 1931, p. 181 8q.).

The palace is (i) sattabhiima, seven-storeyed. It had, no
doubt, upper storeys, but the number is merely schematic, as
the numbers thousand or hundred in 2, 3, and 4. It had (ii)
thousand chambers (gabbha) and (iii) many hundreds of pillars
(thambha) which were variously adorned (vicitra) either in
form or in colour. It had (iv) hundreds of katdgdras, sepa-
rately roofed pavillions which projected on any of the storeys.
It had (v) doors (dvdra), large and small, (vi) windows (kavdta),
(vii) stairs (sopdna) and (viii) well adorned walls (bhitti). It
was radiant with manifold ornaments of creepers and flowers
and offered conveniences for every season.

It is a lucky chance that the ruins, as far as they are
excavated, render a better description of the palace possible
than the verses of the Mahavamsaa.

The main and central part of the palace is a building of
about 23 yards in length from North to South and 15 yards in
breadth. It is divided into two equal parts by a broad passage -
running through it from East to West. The walls of this
building are made of brick and very strong, nearly 10 feet
thick, so that the interior space has not more than 8 yards in
breadth. It is obvious that these walls had to support a
superstructure, most probably the upper storeys.

The main door of the palace was on the eastern side.
Through a vestibule one entered a large hall of about 38 yards
in length from North to South and of 14 yards in breadth. Its
roof was supported by three rows of altogether 36 pillars.
We may suppose that in this splendid room the Court-festivals
took place. The king in great state, sitting on his throne and
surrounded by his attendants, showed here his sacred person
to his subjects and received their homage.

Behind the hall is the central building and having passed
CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 143

through it one entered a smaller hall on its Western side with
one row of 8 pillars only, and quitted the palace through a
gateway similar to the [Eastern entrance, but much
smaller. ;

The whole building is encircled on four sides by a great
number of chambers, the largest of which have hardly more
than four yards in length and even less in breadth. There
are also remains of stone stairs leading to an upper storey.
Here were, | think, the private chambers of the royal family
and also open floors or terraces (pdsida-tala, mahdatala) where
the king and the queen and their attendants could enjoy the
sun. on ‘chilly days and the shade in the hot season. But the
upper storeys of the palace in Pulatthinagara have entirely
disappeared, probably owing to the fact that they were of
slighter construction and partly made of wood. Doubtless
the royal bedroom (sirisayanagabbha) which is described in
Mhos. 73.65 sq. was in this part of the building.

21. Besides the royal palace, there were, often or regu-
larly, other buildings within the citadel (rajangana). In
Pulatthinagara, ruins of several structures are still visible near
the pasdda. It is, however, impossible to ascertain their
appropriation. But in Mhvs. 90.66, we are told that in the
14th century King Parakkamabahu IV, who was residing in
Kurunegala, erected a temple for the sacred Tooth Relic
(dathadhGtu) within the royal courtyard. The Tooth Relic
that was brought to Ceylon in the 4th century (37.92) was the
palladium of the Sinhalese kingdom, and the rulers kept it
in their immediate neighbourhood. In Anuradhapura, the
ruins which by tradition are assumed to be those of the temple
of the Tooth Relic (dathadhatughara), are situated in the
city not far from the Gedi-gé. It is of interest to know where
in Pulatthinagara the sacred relic was kept during the bright-
est period of the kingdom.

Within the citadel no trace has been found of a datha-
dhatughara. But outside it, near its Northern Gate, there is
an artificial terrace, measuring a little more than [00 yards
square, on which a very important group of monuments is
situated. Hitherto it was the prevalent opinion that these
144 WILHELM GEIGER

monuments represent the Jetavanarama which is mentioned
as a foundation of Parakkamabahu I and described in Mhus.
78.32 sq. 1 accepted myself this identification which was first
suggested by H. W. Codrington. But it has been contested
with weighty arguments by S. Paranavitana (Polonnaruva
Topography, in the Ceylon Journal of Science, Section—
Geography, Vol. II, p. 161 sq.).

Paranavitana points out that it was against the practice
of the Buddhist monks to have their monasteries inside the
city, as we also see in Anuradhapura. Moreover, he states,
chiefly from inscriptions found on the monuments, that the
Quadrangle was the Temple of the Tooth Relic in the
Polonnaruva period. It had the name Dalada-maluva,
Terrace of the Tooth Relic, both in books and inscriptions.
One of the Quadrangle buildings was the Tooth Relic Temple
of Vijayabahu I (1059-1116 A.D.), another that of Nissanka-
malla (1187-1196). We might expect that Parakkamabahu I,
who was reigning in the time between the two aforesaid
kings, had also built a temple on the Quadrangle for that
sacred palladium of the kingdom. The chronicle, however,
merely says (74.198) that the King had erected in the middle
of the town (nagara-majjhamhi) for the Tooth Relic a splen-
did temple of five proportions. On the Quadrangle there is
one building, the so-called Thiparama, which perhaps can
be regarded as Parakkamabahu’s temple of the Tooth. But
I do not know if it can be attributed to that period on grounds
of style.

I fully agree with Paranavitana so far that the Quadrangle
is not identical with Parakkamabahu's Jetavana monastery,
and that its buildings were dedicated to the worship of the
Tooth Relic. But I hesitate to accept the identification of
the Jetavana with the northernmost group of ruins round the
image-house, popularly called the Demalamahasiya. It
seems indeed to be beyond all doubts that the enumeration
in Mhos. 78.40 sq. of the monasteries founded by Parakkama-
bahu proceeds from South to North. The Jetavana is men-
tioned first. Since it is not the Quadrangle, we must identify
it with the group immediately outside the Northern Gate
CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 145

between the city wall and the Rankos-Dagoba. We return,
therefore, to the former traditional nomenclature. The next
monastery is the Alahana-parivena (78.48 sq.) with the
Pacchimarama, the Western monastery, adjoining it in- the
west, and the third is the Uttararama, the Northern Monas-
tery (78.74-5} which is now appropriately called Gal-vehera,
i.e., Rock Monastery. Finally, the Damilathiipa is men-
tioned in the chronicle (78.76). This is, no doubt, the huge
heap of bricks, north of the Gal-vehera, now overgrown with
jungle, looking like a natural hill over which run the paths
of the wild elephants. The traditional name Demalamaha-
siya has been erroneously transferred to a building which
ig situated a good deal farther to the North and resembles
the monuments of the Quadrangle, the Thiparama and the
Hata-da-gé

Regarding the Jetavana, I refer to Mhus. 78.41, where
we are told that the King built in this monastery a beautiful
round temple wholly of stone to the Tooth Relic. If this
notice, which does not seem to be in keeping with the afore-
cited passage concerning the erection of a Tooth temple in
the middle of the city, is reliable at all, it would certainly
better suit the Jetavana than the buildings to the North of the
Damilathipa, where Paranavitana supposes that temple to
have been situated. It is hardly probable that the King would
have kept the palladium of the royalty at so great a distance
from his palace.

22. The Royal treasure (rdjasadhana,_ rdaja-
bhanda) is frequently mentioned in the chronicle. The royal
dignity is closely connected with its possession. It contained
the insignia or ornaments (rdjabharana, rajabhisana) which
the king was wont to wear on festival occasions. Whenever
the kingdom was in danger, the ruler did his utmost to secure
the regalia. When Kassapa, the heroic son of Upatissa II
(522-24 A.D.) realized the uselessness of resistance against
the mighty usurper Silakala, he took his father and with his
life and the royal treasure tried to escape to the hill-country
of Malaya. But he was surrounded on the way by -his foes
and committed suicide (Mhus. 41.10 sq.). It was considered
146 WILHELM GEIGER

as a great disaster that the Colas, when they seized King
Mahinda V in the year 1017 A.D. also took possession of the
royal insignia (sabbam abharanam, 55.16) and sent them to
Southern India.

A new Sinhalese king was always anxious to seize first
of all the regalia without which his dignity would have been
imperfect. When in the year 496 A.D. Moggallana after
the suicide in battle of his brother Kassapa | had occupied
the kingdom he took the whole of the royal treasure (sabbam
sadhanam daddya, 39.28) and entered the capital to ascend
the throne, After the death of Aggabodhi IV (647 A.D.) in
Pulatthinagara the royal subjects secured the regalia (rdja-
bhandam, 46.38) and brought them to Anuradhapura. When
Aggabodhi VII died. in the year 772 A.D. the heir apparent
Mahinda Il came from Mahatittha and having crushed the
rebels he had the intriguing queen put into fetters and seized
the royal power together with the royal treasure (rajjam ganhi
sasddhanam, 48.89).

The usurper Mitta who had killed the legitimate king
Vijayabahu IV about the year 1273 A.D. forced his way
into the city of Tambuddoni, entered the royal palace, seated
himself on the throne and showed himself to the whole army,
his person adorned with royal ornaments (rajabhasanabhi-
sitam, 90.13). After the Tooth Relic and the Bowl Relic
were retaken in Rohana by the generals of Parakkamabahu
and carried to Pulatthinagara with great solemnity, the king
himself arrayed with all his ornaments (sabbaébharanabha-
sito, 74.224) mounted his favourite elephant and surrounded
by many dignitaries he went forth to reverence the sacred
relics.

Such was the appearance of the Sinhalese kings on festive
occasions.

23. The royal insignia were 64 in number (Mhovs. 82.50),
but though they were often mentioned in literature, a list of
them is not readily available (E. W. Perera, Ceylon Notes and
Queries, II], 1914, p. xxxvi). Some of them are enumerat-
ed in the Thiipavamsa, a work composed in the 13th century,
but the terms are hardly reconcilable with those occurring
CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 147

in the Pali chronicle. There the following regalia are
mentioned :—

(a) The throne (dsana, sihésana, pallemka), The ex-
pression ‘lion-seat’, is frequently used, for the lion is the
symbol of royal power (25.98; 90.13, 23). Sometimes the
king’s seat was erected on the stone figure of a crouching
lion. A specimen of such a figure with an inscription of king
Nissankamalla is preserved in the Colombo Museum.

(b) When sitting on the throne the king wore a crown on
his head which was adorned with gold und precious stones.
The most superb of the stones was the crest-jewel (cailamani).
In the Mahdvamsa three terms occur for the crown: makuta,
kirita, moli. I translate these words tentatively with crown,
diadem, tiara. In the Thipavamsa five kinds of crown (Sinh.
ofunna) are distinguished: siddha-, mini-, simha-, vydghra-,
and ruvan-, crown, i.e., the celestial crown, the jewel-, lion-,
tiger crown, and the golden crown (E. W. Perera, l.c.
p. xxxvii. 19). It is, however, impossible to trace such a dis-
tinction in the Pali chronicle, nor do we know whether the
three words used here are merely synonymous or denote
different kinds of crown. King Kassapa II having defeated
the usurper Dathopatissa (641 A.D.) united the island again
under one dominion, but it is expressly said that he did not
wear the crown (makutam eu na dhadrayi—44.145), for the royal
insignia were in Dathopatissa’s possession (44:126-8). Among
the treasures captured by the Colas in the year 1017 A.D.,
there was also the royal crown (makutam—55.16). In a
similar connection the diadem is mentioned (kiritam—
56.10) which is also classed among the sixty-four royal
ornaments in Mhus, 82.50. In the description of Parakkama-
bahu's first coronation the term moli, the tiara, is used
(71.28), and when after Manabharana’s death, his second
coronation took place he entered the capital in a
solemn procession, sitting on the back of his state-elephant
and wearing on his head the tiara (sirasé dhdrayam molim
—72.326), which sparkled with the brilliance of itg jewels.

(c) The particular symbol of the royal dignity waa the
white umbrella (seta-chatta). The phrase ‘to raise the (white)

2
148 , WILHELM GEIGER

umbrella’ means the same as to ascend the throne (Mhus.
55.1) and the phrase ‘to unite Lanka under one umbrella’, the
same as to govern the whole island (64.32; 69.4). In the
inscriptions the date is generally given by the worda “‘in
such and such a year after the elevation of the umbrella”
(see above in para 4). In festive assemblies the umbrella was
held over the king’s head by an official of high rank whose
title was chattagahaka (59.16). Even in battles the king riding
on his elephant was made recognisable by the white umbrella,
as in modern times the position of the commander-in-chief
by his standard. By a mishap king Samghatissa lost his
umbrella in the battle against the rebel Moggallana (after-
wards M. Ill, 611-7). It fell to the ground, because it knocked
against the branch of atree. The hostile soldiers took it and
handed it over to their commander. Moggallana raised it
standing on the summit of a hill. Thereupon the troops of
Samghatissa abandoned their ruler and surrounded Mogga-
Nana thinking he was now their king (44.18 sq.). The um-
brella as a symbol of royalty is known to the whole of India
since ancient times. A chatta was according to the tradition
among the presents sent by king Asoka to Devanampiyatissa
(11.28). The latter himself dedicated a white umbrella to
the eight shoots of the sacred Bodhi-tree to honour them like
kings, and he bestowed the royal consecration (abhiseka)
upon them (19.59).

(d) The camara was a costly fly-flapper, the chowry
or the bushy tail of the Tibetan Yak, Bos gruniens. It was
often set in a costly decorated handle in which form it was
one of the insignia of ancient Asiatic royalty. The chowry
is therefore mentioned side by side with the umbrella (76.123;
99.47, 15; 100.193). Its handle is made of gold and silver
(85.26; 89.19). The term vdlavijani, literally fan made of
hair, seems to be synonymic with cdmara. When the Hair
Relic had been brought to Ceylon, king Moggallana | (496-
513 A.D.) constructed a casket for it which he placed under a
pillar-supported canopy, and he dedicated a vdlavijani to
it, in order to make its royal dignity manifest (39.53). Besides
the cdmara and the chatta a jewel-fan (mani-talavanta), i.e.,
CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 149

a fan decorated with jewels is mentioned among the royal
insignia in a purely mythical passage (31.73).

(ec) Ornaments worn by the king on solenin occasions also
occur among the regalia, such as bracelets (kataka—Mhuvs.
82.50, vajiravalaya—-55.16), etc. The most precious ornament
was apparently a chain of one string of pearls (ekdvali). It
is noticeable that the same is mentioned in the Kautaliya
Arthagastra IJ, 11.29 (transl. by Shamasastry, p. 87) in an
enumeration of royal treasures. When Aggabodhi III was
defeated, by Dathopatissa about the year 626 A.D. and forced
to flee to Jambudvipa, he left everything behind and took
with him only the ekdvali by which to make himself known.
King Aggabodhi IV, who was a devoted friend of the
Buddhist community used that chain as rosary (akkhamala—

46.17).

(f, A royal weapon was the unbreakable dagger
(acchijja-cchurika) mentioned in 55.16 immediately after the
vajiravalaya. \t was no doubt the dagger with which Kassapa |
committed suicide by cutting his throat (39.27). This was
also done by Jetthatissa III (44.112) who was wont to keep
the dagger in his betel-bag. In the description of a similar
scene the word asiputtaka is used insted of churika (41.24).

(g) Together with the unbreakable dagger in 55.17 also
chinnapattikadhGtu is mentioned as belonging to the royal
treasure. The word requires a few remarks. Wijesinha in
his translation of the Mahdvamsa (Il, p. 90) renders it as
“sacred forehead band’’ and adds the note: ‘“The term is
of doubtful meaning, but it evidently refers to the fillet worm
round the forehead.’’ But this is impossible. The final word
dhatu clearly points to some sacred relic and the first word
of the compound chinna is incompatible with the idea of a
fillet, for it means “‘cut off." Perhaps even the suffix in
pajtika should not be neglected: pattikd is a small piece of
cloth. I believe, therefore, that chinnapattikadhatu was a
relic consisting in a torn piece of stuff from the Buddha's
robe which was probably kept in a small costly case and
worn by the king as a talisman.
156 WILHELM GEIGER

24. In Ceylon as in the whole of India the king’s vehicle
was the elephant. The best elephant in the royal stables was
the state-elephant (mangala-hatthi or -dvipo). It was mounted
by the ruler not only during festive processions (see above
22, 23b) but also in war (23c.) When Kassapa I and Jetthatissa
Ill committed suicide in battle (22, 23/), they were riding on
their elephants. A most heroic scene from ancient times is
the single combat between Dutthagamani and ElJara near the
south gate of Anuradhapura, as it is described in Mhwvs.
25.69-70. Both kings had mounted their elephants; that of
Dutthagamani was called Kandula, that of his adversary
Mahapavvata. Elara hurled his dart first, but Gamani
avoided it. He made his own-elephant pierce his enemy's
elephant with his tusks and hurled at the same time his dart
at Elara and Elara fell with his elephant. The state-elephant
was no doubt always a tusker of extra-ordinary size. As
tuskers are very rare in Ceylon such animals were imported
either from Burma or from India. Import of elephants from
Burma, as we shall see below (29), is confirmed by the
chronicle itself (Mhus. 76.17).

There were also horses in the royal stables (70.265), and
a state-horse (mangalavajin, assa mangala) is mentioned in the
chronicle (22.52, 34.86). Prince Kassapa, the brother of king
Sena I, was on horseback in a battle against the Damilas,
and the swiftness of the noble steed was so great that the
one horse looked as if it were a line of many steeds (50.26-28).
The royal elephants were under the care of the elephant-
keepers (hatthipaka) and the horses under that of the riding-
masters (turangasadin—88. 34).

25. In mediaeval Ceylon, as everywhere in India the
harem was an essential part of the royal court. There are
several terms for harem in the Mahavamsa: antepuritthiyo,
i.e., palace women (14.46), orodha and orodhajand (60.85),
itthagaGra or in the plural itthégdrad (70.266; 72.302; 59.33).
The last term may be compared with German frauenzimmer.
The women of the harem were not only the king's retinue
but also his concubines. It is expressly stated in 59.33 that
none of king Vijayabahu I's itthdgard conceived a fruit of the
CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 154

womb by the monarch. Only on the wives of equal birth, the
queens, he begot children. Sons begotten on the itthdgard
had no right of succession.

The women of the royal seraglio were in constant attend-
ance upon the king and they did their utmost to please him
and to grow in his favour. Those of Vijayabahu were em-
ulating his attendants in amassing many merits in many ways
(60.85). Without orodha the splendour of the royal court
was defective. When Manabharana had overcome king
Gajabahu and taken possession oi Pulatthinagara he fetched
from Rohana the sacred relics, tooth and bowl, his mother
Sugala and the whole of the harem (sakalam itthdgaram
—70.266), for he wished to show the people that he was now
the legitimate ruler.

Chiefly on festive occasions the palace women were in
the king's retinue. Ten years ago I was present in
Djokjakarta, Isle of Java, at the celebration of one of the
three anniversaries (garabek) in the Sultan's palace. When
the Sultan entered the festival hall, he was followed by
officials who carried the insignia, the umbrella, the fan made
of peacock’'s feathers, the lance, efc., and immediately after
them came the women of the seraglio who, during the whole
solemnity, were squatting on the side of and behind the
Sultan’s throne. A group of women had strong yellow paint
on their necks and shoulders. On beholding the whole cere-
mony I could form a notion of a mediaeval Indian court-feast.

The Javaka king Candabhanu was accompanied by his
harem even in war, for in the booty got by Vijayabahu and
Virabahu after his defeat the loveliest women of his court
(orodhavara—Mhvs, 8874) are mentioned besides the
elephants and horses, many weapons and the entire treasure.

3. Royal duties.

26. In order to be able to fulfil his duties in the most
perfect manner the king must know the precepts of political
wisdom (niti, naya). If he masters them he is worthy of the
name of a clever statesman (nayafiiu—Mhus. 48.50; 58.1).
The king is to reign according to the rules of statecraft (yatha-
152 WILHELM GEIGER

nayam—48.96) without transgressing the precepts laid down for
monarchs (rajanilim avokkamma—90.56). We have noticed
above (para. I1) that the study of various works of niti
literature was included in the princely education. In the later
part of the chronicle, which was composed by Dhammakitti’s
successor, Manu is recognised as the highest authority.
Vijayabahu II (1186-7A.D.) was an eminent ruler who did
not depart from any precept of the political teaching of Manu
(Manunitikkamam kimci avokkamma—80.9) and Parakkama-
bahu II (1236-71 A.D.) is praised as versed in the ordinances
of Manu (Manunitivisarado—84.2).

Ten virtues (dasa rdjadhammaé—37.107; 52.43) are essen-
tial for a good ruler. They are not.enumerated in the chronicle.
It is supposed that they are well known to everybody. But
they are specified in a Jataka verse: giving of alms (dana),
leading a moral life (sila), liberality (pariccdga), fair dealing
(ajjava), gentleness (maddava), self-discipline (tapo), free-
dom from wrath (akkodha), mercy (avihimsa), patience
(khanti), peaceableness (avirodho).—Jataka, ed. by Fausbdll,
Ill. 274. The ten meritorious works (dasa pufifakriya, 37.180)
are a similar list of royal virtues, or they are identical with
dasa rajadhammd.

As a king is always menaced with ambuscades of foes
and rebels (cord, ddmarika), he must try to gain the goodwill
of his subjects by liberality (dana), friendly speech (peyyavajja)
beneficence (atthacariyd) and sociability (samdnattata). These
are the four heartwinning qualities (cattdri samgahavatthani—
37.108; 52.43; 92.8) by which good rulers are distinguished.

27. Upon his officials the king used to confer distinc-
tions in order to acquire ready and obedient followers or to
show them his gratitude if they had successfully executed the
royal orders. We meet in the chronicle with several terms,
which are manifestly nothing but honorary titles, bestowed
on the bearers by the king for public services. The system
became more and more complex reaching a climax about
the time of Parakkamabahu the Great. One of these titles is
kesadhatu or kesadhatu-ndyaka. It may have originated
in the members of the order entrusted with the care of the
CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 153

Hair Relic (kesa-dhdtu). Later on this became a mere
formality Parakkamabahu conferred the title on his general
Rakkha (kesadhatu-padam datvaé—70.19) when he had sub-
jugated some districts of the Malaya province, and to another
of his generals (ada kesadhatu-nayakattam—70.279) ere he be-
gan the war with his most powerful rival, Manabharana.
The title of a kesadhatu(-nayaka) first occurs in the IIth
century (57.68). In the reign of Parakkamabahu several
officers or generals are mentioned who bore it (70.23, 66, 98;
72.2, 5, 7, 107; 76.253, 255, 269, 324). J_ater on it seems to
have fallen into disuse.

It is sometimes impossible to say with certainty whether
such a term is a mere title or the designation of an official
post with peculiar duties. But this much seems to be very
probable that all the compounds with -giri, -gala as second
part and with lanka- as first part are honorary titles only. |
refer to nagaragalla and nagaragiri. The former title was
bestowed by Parakkamabahu on his general Sankhadhatu
(nagaralla-padam datvé—70.280). As nagaragiris are men-
tioned Mahinda, Natha, Kitti (70.89, 146, 199; 70.318; 72.107:
76.60); the nagaragiri Gokanna was in the service of king
Gajabahu (66.35, 62; 70.68). Similar titles are lokagalla
(75.138), nilagiri (70.137, 140, 142), jitagirt (72.25), maragiri
(72.11; 72.164, 174) and lankdagiri (72.27; 72.124-5; 76.250).
Other compounds with lanka are lankadhinayaka or lanka-
dhinatha (70.24, 98) and lankapura (72.39; 75.70; 76.250) in
addition to lankdgiri. The title lankadhikarin was conferred
on Kittti (add...lankadhikarittam—70.278) who up to that time
was a sankhakandyaka,

A translation of these terms would hardly be appropriate.
Generally the title is immediately joined to the personal name
of its bearer, as for instance, Mahinda-nagaragiri or Rakkha-
lankapuro, If the person is mentioned before in the narra-
tion and therefore known to the reader, often the title alone
is used. Frequently the phrases like ‘‘the Jankapura which
is known as Kadakkuda"’ (Kadakkude-iti-ssuto lankapuro) or
“the kesadhatu named Tamba’’ (Tambavhayo kesadhdatu) are
met with in the chronicle.
154 WILHELM GEIGER

28. One of the principal duties of the king was the dip-
lomatic intercourse with other people. He received the
messengers sent to his court by foreign kings and he himself
sent messengers to other courts. When in the 12th century
the island of Ceylon was divided into three or four provinces
and each of the provinces had its own ruler, there was a
polite diplomatic intercourse between the courts, as long as
the rulers were living in peace. Manabharana sent messen-
gers to Pulatthinagara to bring king Vikkamabahu the news
of the birth of his son, Parakkamabahu (Mhvs. 62.54).
Later on Parakkamabahu himself announced in the same
manner the death of his uncle Kittisirimegha to king Gaja-
bahu in Pulatthinagara and tochis cousin, the younger Mana-
bharana, who was the ruler ia Rohana (67.95).

29. Of greater importance were the diplomatic relations
with Ramafifia and with the Dravidian kingdoms in Southern
India.

Ramafifia was the name of the province of Pegu in
Southern Burma. Its inhabitants were, like those of Ceylon,
Buddhists of the Theravada school. Between the two
countries there had never been a dissension up to the 12th
century, and their monarchs were wont to send each other
many costly gifts and in this way to maintain a friendly inter-
course (Mhus. 76.10 sq.). Vijayabahu I (1059-1114 A.D.) sent
envoys with various presents to the king of Ramafifia and
received in return valuable gifts from him (58.60.) When, in
Ceylon the number of the bhikkhus had decreased so much
that it became impossible to make the chapter full for the hold-
ing of the ecclesiastical ceremonies, the same king fetched
from Ramafifiia bhikkhus who were thoroughly versed in the
Buddhist precepts and able to restore the Order which had
declined in Lanka (60°4 sq.). It is well known that for the
same purpose in the |I8th century an embassy was sent to
Siam by king Kittisirirajasiha A chapter of bhikkhus arrived
in Ceylon and established there the Siamese sect (Sir D. B.
Jayatilaka, Saranankara, the last Sangha-Raja of Ceylon—
p. 148q.). The Burmese sect in the Island is of a somewhat
later origin.
CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 155

The friendship between the two countries was severely
disturbed in the 12th century when new regulations concern-
ing the trade in elephants were introduced by the ruler of
Ramafiia. These regulations were disadvantageous to the
Ceylonese merchants. Moreover envoys sent by king
Parakkamabahu | were ill-treated and a princess who passed
through Burma’ on her way to Kamboja was seized by force.
Parakkamabahu resolved to make war on the Ramafifa king.
His troops having crossed the sea landed in two different
ports and overthrew the hostile armies.

Such is the report of the chronicle (Mhos. 76.10-68), but
we do not know how far it is reliable. It is certainly much
exaggerated. In the negotiations of peace which followed
the campaign the community of bhikkhus is said to have
acted as intermediaries. The former friendly relations were
restored by king Vijayabahu II (1186-7 A.D.). The king him-
self composed a letter in the Magadha language which he sent
to the ruler of Ramafifia and concluded a treaty with him, as
Vijayabahu I had done before (80.6-7).

30. Much more troubles were caused by the relations
with the Dravidian kingdoms in Southern India. Those with
the Pandus had generally a more friendly character than those
with the Colas. According to a half legendary tradition the
leader of the first Aryan immigrants, Vijaya, married a
daughter of the Pandu king in Madhura and his companions
married maidens of the same race (Mhus, 7.48 sq.). In the
mediaeval period Mitta, the sister of Vijayabahu | (see above
para. 9), was given away in marriage to a Pandu prince, while
the wooing of the Cola king was refused, because the Cola
was not considered to be of equal birth. Later intermarriages
between the royal families of the two countries are mentioned
above (para. 9). On the other hand already in the 9th century
the chronicle (50.12 sq.) gives an account of the incursion
into the island of a Pandu army by which palaces and temples
were plundered and destroyed and many treasures carried
away to India. The war was brought to an end by a treaty
concluded with the Sihala ruler by the envoys of the Pandu
king.
156 WILHELM GEIGER

Sometimes the Pandus when they were in conflict with
the Colas sent messengers to the Sinhalese king or took refuge
with him and requested his aseistance, as it happened in the
reign of Kassapa V (913-23 A.D.) and Dappula IV (Mhos.
52.70 sq.; 53.5 sq.). In the 12th century the Pandu king
Pardkrama entreated the help of king Parakkamabahu
against Kulagekhara. Ae it was always in keeping with the
policy of the Sinhalese kings to support the Pandus in such
conflicts Parakkamabahu sent an army into Southern India.
The campaign is amply described in the Mahavamsa (76.86
sq.; 77.1-105), but the failure which overtook the expedition
after the initial success is concealed by the chronicler. (Cf.
Codrington, Short History of Geylon, p. 62). At the end of
the 13th century a Pandu army invaded Ceylon during a
famine, took the stronghold Subhagiri and carried the Tooth
Relic, which was kept there, away to India. The Sacred
Relic was brought back to Ceylon by king Parakkamabahu III
(90.43 sq.; 51 sq.).

But the most dangerous enemies of the Sinhalese were
the Colas. The history of Ceylon in ancient and mediaeval
times is filled with accounts of bloody struggles between the
Sihalas and the Colas, who invaded the island and devastated
it. Already in the 2nd century B.C. Ejara came from the
Cola country and occupied Anuraddhapura. Sjmilar events
frequently occurred in later times. Often the northern pro-
vinces of the island were posssessed by the Damilas whilst
the Sihala kingdom was confined to Rohana. Such was the
state of things in the 10th and |! Ith centuries in the reigns of
king Udaya IV (Mhos. 53.42 8q.), of king Sena ‘V (54.64 sq.)
and of king Mahinda V (56.1 sg.). The last was even taken
prisoner by the Colas and brought to India. About
1070 A.D. Vijayabahu I succeeded in restoring the Sinhalese
kingdom (58.59). But we know that it was the fear of the
Cola invasions by which the Sinhalese kings were compelled
to transfer their residence from Anuradhapura to Pulatthi-
nagara and later on to such places as Jambuddoni in the south-
western province. The chronicle tells us that the Kanniata
and the Cola kings sent envoys with rich presents to king
CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 157

Vijayabahu's court. It is difficult to understand what the
purpose of that embassy was and how it ended. But the
messengers sent in return by the Sinhalese king to the court
of the Cola king were ill-treated and mutilated. Vijayabahu
declared war, but was prevented from carrying out his
plan by the mutiny of the Velakkara mercenaries in Pulatthi-
nagara (60.24 sq.).

In the 13th century the Pandus and Colas had again the
opportunity of meddling with the Sinhalese affairs (80.43 sq.).
But later on the relations had a different character. Buddhisin
was apparently flourishing in the Cola country, and bhikkhus
betook themselves there from Ceylon or were summoned

by Sinhalese rulers to return. therefrom to the island (81.20
sq.; 84.9-10; 89.67).
The Terminal Stupa of the Barabudur
By Dr. J. PrzyLuski

Mr. Stutterheim’s researches, continued by M. Mus,
have brought to light the analogies which exist be-
tween the Barabudur, the mountain-temple of the Indian
Cakravartin, and the Assyro-babylonian ziqqurrat. 1 have
endeavoured recently to lend more precision to these analo-
gies, and showed that all those monuments consist of three
parts: the tower of Babylon had a subterranean base, seven
stories, and a shrine on its top. Likewise, mount Meru, the
prototype of the mountain-temple, has an invisible base sur-
mounted by the mountain, which, in its turn, is crowned by
the palace of the gods. Again, the Barabudur has a base
concealed by a facing of masonry, seven terraces and a ter-

a

minal stipa.' The question which I would now like to ex:

amine is the following: which was the deity worshipped in
the terminal stiipa of the Barabudur?

Theoretically, there is scarcely any doubt about the
answer. On the summit of the cosmic mountain sits the king
of the gods. The Cakravartin’s palace is the image of the
god's palace. The Barabudur, being both the cosmic and the
royal mountain, the personage who sits on its top must be
the summit of the religious and of the political hierarchy.
Thus he must be at the same time the Cakravartin-Buddha,
and the king-Cakravartin. We shall see that these politico-
religious ideas, having spread to the distant boundaries of
the Buddhist world, were given in the empire of the
Sailendras, a special character.

Several Buddhist sdtras, translated into Chinese, bear a
title which corresponds to Brahmajala-sitra. Here is the

1 Les sept terrasses du Barabudur, article in the press in HJAS
(Harvard Journal of Asiatic Studies).
THE TERMINAL STOPA OF THE BARABUDUR 159

full title of one of them: ‘“‘Part ten of the Brahmajdla-siitra
where the Buddha Vairocana declares the cittabhaimi and the
Sila of a Bodhisattva.” This text belongs to the Vinaya cate-
gory and has been partly edited and translated by De Groot
in 1893.2 We will call it by its Japanese title:
“‘Bommékys."’ It was profoundly venerated in Japan. In
A.D. 753, the Bommékyé was read in all the more important
temples.

“Bommékyd doctrines,’ writes Prof. 5S. Elisseeff, “‘as
well as Buddhist concepts in general profoundly influenced
the political ideas of the Emperor Shému. This Japanese
sovereign felt that the government should be organized in
conformity with this Buddhist text, where it is said that Locana
produces one thousand great Sakya, who are in their nirmana-
kaya; from, each of these Sakyas come forth millions of small
Sakyas, who simultaneously are preaching in all the millions of
worlds. In this same way the Emperor occupies in Japan
the supreme rank, corresponding to Locana Buddha; the
Imperial will is transmitted to the thousand officials, who in
the government organization can be considered representa-
tives of the Emperor, as the thousand great Sakyas are of
Locana. The subjects’ are compared to the millions of small
Sakyas. That the Emperor Shému identified himself with
the central deity is revealed by the fact that after the Sila-
samaddna ceremony he took the Buddhist name Joman. which
is nothing other than the Chinese translation of the Sanskrit
name Locana. It was this sovereign who erected the Great
Buddha and thus represented in sculpture a passage from the
Bomméky6,

“The casting of such a huge statue presented many
technical difficulties and the statuaries succeeded in their

2 De Groot, Le Code du Mahayana en Chine, in the Verhand.
der Konink. Akad. van Wetensch., Amsterdam, 1893; James R. Ware,
Notes on the Fan Wang Ching, HJAS, 1, 1. pp. 156-161;
for a bibliography of the Japanese studies about this text, cf. S.
Elisseeff, The Bommokyo and the Great Buddha of Todaiji, HJAS,
I, 1, p. 84, n. 3.
160 J. PRZYLUSKI

work only after eight attempts. It was finished in 749, but
was not yet gilded. The Japanese authorities were anxious
to find the precious metal in Japan itself in order to gild
this great statue with national gold. At the beginning of the
year 749 gold had been discovered in northern Japan. The
Emperor Shému was extremely glad of this event and in the
fourth month went to Tédaiji accompanied by his family and
many officials. This same year the Emperor Shému ab-
dicated in order to devote himself to Buddhism.

becene “The Great Buddha is the Great Enlightened; he is
the essence of Buddha in the Dharmadhatu (world).

beens “The text of the Bommdkyd says: ‘You, all
Buddha's children, hear me attentively; think well (about
my words) and make your conduct conform to it. | have prac-
tised already for hundreds of incomputable kalpas the qua-
lities (of Bodhisattvas) and the stages (of perfection), and taken
them as my guide. At the beginning | abandoned the
worldly (life) and attained samyak-sambodhi. J am called
Locana. I dwell on the lotus throne which contains the
worlds and oceans. [The grammar of this passage is obscure,
but the Japanese engraver has understood it thus]. This
throne is surrounded by one thousand petals. Each petal
being a world, it makes one thousand worlds. 1] metamor-
phose myself producing one thousand Sakyas, conforming to
the one thousand worlds. Further, on each petal which is a
world there are a hundred million Sumerus, a hundred million
suns and moons, a hundred million worlds each in four parts,
a hundred million Jambudvipas, a hundred million Bodhi-
sattva-Sakyas, who are sitting under a hundred million bodhi
trees, each of them preaching the qualities and stages of a
Bodhisattva about which you have just inquired. Each
Sakya of the remaining nine hundred and ninety-nine Sakyas
produces ‘thousands and hundreds of millions of Sakyas, who
do the same. The Buddhas on the thousand petals are
transformations of myself, and thousands and hundreds of
millions of Sakyas are the transformations of these thousand
Sakyas. | am their origin and my name is Locana Buddha.’
THE TERMINAL STOPA OF THE BARABUDUR 161

“This great Buddha in the Tédaiji is represented sitting
on a lotus throne. On each petal of the lotus flower is repre-
sented one of the thousand great Sakyas who are the emana-
tions of Locana.”’

On the upper part of the petal is engraved the picture of
the Great Sakya, who is sitting on a throne and preaching.
Under his throne is represented the Grand Chiliocosm. The
engraver has depicted the aripyadhdtu, the rapadhatu and
the kRadmadhdtu. In the lowest part of the petal is engraved
the Sumeru world with mount Sumeru in the middle. This
mountain has four terraces. On the bottom of the petal is
engraved a sea. The statue of the Great Buddha was ins-
pired by the passage translated above from the Bommékyo;
the details on the petals, inspired by other sifras and Sastras,
are there to show the relation of the whole world from here
below up to the Great Enlightened Deity.

The whole monument proves that an exact symmetry
reigned between the state organization and the religious cos-
mology in the Japanese Buddhism of the 8th century. The
two organizations are correlative and this is why the emperor
identifies himself with the central deity, taking the name of
Locana.

In Weltbild und Bauform Sudostasiens, M. von Heine-
geldern has noted the application of similar principles in the
Indo-Chinese and Indonesian kingdoms. The Burmese look
upon the prasdda which roofs the throne-room at Mandalay as
the centre of the world. It is to imitate Indra that the
Indonesian and Indo-Chinese kings had thirty-two vassals.
and it is probably in view of an assimilation with Sudargana,
the city of the gods, that the capital of the kingdom was
sometimes provided with 32 doors which corresponded to
the 32 divisions of the kingdom. As a matter of fact, the
Glass Palace-Chronicle of the kings of Burma says that the
city of Sriksetra has been drawn by Indra after the model of

3 S. Elisseeff, The Bommokyo and the Great Buddha of Todaiji,
HJAS, I, 1, pp. 88-95.
162 J. PRZYLUSKI

Sudaréana.‘ In Burma, the king and his 32 vaasals identify
themselves with Indra, chief of the group of the Thirty-three
gods, just as in Japan the emperor, surrounded by his digni-
taries, identifies himself with Locana in the middle of the
1,000 Great Sakyas.

The Chinese messenger Tcheou Ta-kouan, speaking of
the Bayon which is in the centre ot Angkor, the capital of the
old Cambodia, said: ‘To mark the centre of the kingdom
there is a gold tower, surrounded by more than twenty stone
towers.""> The Bayon, then, must have been, to use Heine-
geldern’s own expression, the magical centre of the
kingdom."’ Erected in the centre of Angkor, this temple
is made of some fifty towers, linked together by galleries.
Each tower bears, looking towards each point of the com-
pass, four big stone faces crowned by diadems. Ia the
ground of the big tower, the idol which was worshipped in
the centre of the Bayon, has been found: a Buddha three
meters high, in which M. Coedés recognizes the image of
the Devaraja, that is to say, of the God-King. In the Sivite
sanctuaries, the Devaraja was the great linga of the kingdom;
worshipped in the central temple of the capital, he personi-
fied both the king of the gods and the king of men. In the
Bayon, the central temple of Angkor, the Devaraja is per-
sonified by the great statue of the Buddha, venerated in the
great central tower. In this image, both the Great En-
lightened and the sovereign of Cambodia are represented.
As to the stone faces which adorn the fifty towers, epigraphy
tells us that they stand for a whole pantheon of deities, Brah.
manical as well as Buddhist: Visnu, Siva, Parvati, the

Medicine Buddha, the Lion of the Sakyas.°

4 Pe Maung Tin and Luce, Glass Palace Chronicle, Oxford, 1932, pp.
14-15; Heine-Geldern, Weltbild und Bauform, pp. 45 ff. P. Mus.
Barabudur, BEFEO, 33, pp. 701 ff.

5 P. Pelliot, Mémoire sur les coutumes du Cambodge, BEFEO,
2, p. 142.

6 G. Geedés, Notice archéologique du Bayon, in Dufour-Carpeaux,
Le Bayon d’Angkor-Thom, Paris, 1914, t. 11, p. 30.
THE TERMINAL STOPA OF THE BARABUDUR 163

In a recent communication to the Academy of Inecrip-
tions, M. P. Mus, having exposed those facts, proposed a
clever explanation for them. ‘‘Four faces,"’ says M. Mus,
“resume space entirely because they mark the four principal
directions...... * “Brahma does not possess four heads, his
face is just one and it can be seen from everywhere. Four
orients are the whole of space. Four faces are the symbol
of a power which reigns over space.’’ And M. Mus adds
that the Great Buddhist Miracle proceeds ina large way
from similar ideas. He quotes a part cf the Avatamsaka-
siitra where the Buddha of the Great Miracle is compared to
Brahma. ‘‘He is like the Great King Brahma, who rests in
his palace of the Brahma world, whilst everywhere, in the
numberless thousands of worlds, bodies of Brahma can yet be
seen.’ '?

M. Mus concludes that when the architect represented a
four-faced personage on the Bayon towers, he wanted to
figure ‘‘the royal power blessing the four orients of the
country.’” But why, then, this multiplicity of gods who are
worshipped in the Bayon towers? We know that Jayavar-
man VII, who built the temple, “‘bore a special reverence
to the Bodhisattva Lokeévara, alias Avalokitegvara. Now,
the Lotus of the Good Law, a fundamental text, endows this
personage with a faculty to assume all kinds of shapes, so
that he may gather knowledge and save the creatures. He
shall borrow, whenever it is useful, the features of a Buddha.
But there is a particle of Truth, a primitive impulse towards
Good in every cult, and Avalokitegvara shall be, according
to his will, either a great or a middle or a small Brahmanic
god...... Appearing to each man under the exact shape of
the god whom he worships and One, however, under this
diversity, does not Lokegvara deserve fully the name of
Samantamukha, ‘face everywhere’, given to him by the book,
and which is inspired by the power formerly ascribed to
Brahma ?.........It is because he has a part in the dharmakdaya
that Lokegvara enjoys his transcendental powers. Jayavar-

7 Taissho Iseaikyo, no. 278, Vol. IX, p. 618b.
4
164 J. PRZYLUSKI

man wants to associate with him. Together with Lokeévara,
in Lokegvara, in every place where his subjects adore a god,
at Vajrapura, at Chok Gargyar, the king is this god. In the
whole universe, Lokegvara,—over entire Cambodia, Jayavar-
man,—the Bodhisattva and the king are equally ‘face every-
where’. And if the monument, by the disposition of its
shrines, is like a positive map of the country, it is only to
the scope of illustrating, and perhaps of contributing to
assure magically, the penetration of the king’s subtle essence
all over the kingdom.’”

These conclusions are illuminating. One point only is
open to a slight criticism. If Lokeévara assumes the shape
of a Brahmanical god as well as that of a Buddha, it is not
because “‘there is a particle of truth’’ in the Brahmanic, reli-
gion as in the Buddhist, but rather because Indian gods are
Brahmanic and Buddhist at the same time. In al! periods,
and more particularly in, that of the Mahayana, Buddhism is
a syncretism where the Brahmanic mythology comes in for
an important part. This is why Lokegvara, who has so
many points in common with Siva, is the king of the gods like
him, or rather each god is just another shape of Siva-
Lokeévara.

We are, now, in a much better position to understand
the Buddhalogy of the Barabudur, because the religion which
finds its expression in this monument, is also a syncretism
where Sivaism and Mahayanistic Buddhism are mingled to-
gether. The three upper terraces of the Barabudur bear, as
we have said, 72 small stdpas, with a 73rd and bigger stipa
in the middle. The identities of the personages carved in
these stiipas have been much discussed. According to
Dr. Krom, above the five Dhyani-buddhas which are seen
on the square terraces, it is their chief, Vajrasattva= Vajra-
dhara, who was worshipped in the stapa of the circular ter-
races. This opinion has been criticized by M. Mus. The

8 P. Mus, Le symbolism a Angkor-Thom: le ‘‘'Grand Miracle’
da Bayon, in Compte rendu de I’Académie des Inscriptions et Belles
Lettres, sitting of the 21st February, 1936,
THE TERMINAL STOPA OF THE BARABUDUR 165

latter objects that Vajrasattva, the chief of the five Dhyani-
buddhas, does not appear in the older layer of the redaction of
the Sang hyang Kamahdydnikan. He comes in the more
recent layer of this treatise only, and not, even then, as a
sixth Dhyani-buddha, but as a substitute for Aksobhya.®
Besides, M. Toganoo believes that the Buddha of the ter-
minal stipa of the Barabudur is Aksobhya, and for him the
Buddhas of the 72 small stipas are Vairocana, and the sym-
bols of the 72 tantric gunas.!

Does it seem possible to offer a solution which would
comply with the suggestions and the criticisms of the three
archaeologists? We must not forget that there is a close link
between Aksobhya and Vajrasattva: on the crown worn. by
the latter, there is a face of Aksobhya. Vajrasattva is one of
the shapes of Aksobhya: he is Aksobhya in his sambhoga
kaya.'' It will no doubt be admitted that the Buddha of the
terminal stiipa, like the Great Buddha of Tédaiji, is the Great
Enlightened, the essence of the Dharmadhatu, prefiguration
of the Adibuddha of Nepal. Under what name was he vene-
rated at the Barabudur? He may have been known as
Aksobhya by some of the faithful. Jf the terminal stipa
contained Aksobhya in his dharmakaya, the Buddha of the
72 smaller sttipas would be Aksobhya in his sembhogakdya.

The names of the personages, however, are here of
minor consequence. The main point is to admit that the
Buddhas of the 72 small stiipas are the manifestations of the
same essence which has its symbol in the Buddha of the ter-
minal sfapa. And this brings us back to the symbolism of
the Tédaiji and of the Bayon, but at the Barabudur, the sym-
bolism is more complex and announces already the
Adibuddha system of Nepal, for at Barabudur the essence of
the dharmadhatu is shown under three hypostasis: the
Buddha of the terminal sfiipa, the Buddha of the 72 small

9 P. Mus, ibid., pp. 350-351,

10 See Report by M. Demieville in Bibliographie bouddhique V,
no. 450.

11 P. Mus, ibid., p. 351.
166 c J. PRZYLUSKI

stipas and those of the square terraces. These three hypos-
tasis remind us not only of the three Rayas of the Buddha,
but not the system of Nepal also: Adibuddha, Dhyani-
buddha, Manusi-buddha.

Before we proceed any further in our study of the simili-
tudes between the several systems, it is necessary to examine
an evident difference. At the Tddaiji, the Great Sakyas
which surround the central Buddha are 1000 in number In
Burma, the number which defines the royal and divine
court is 33 (1+32). At the Bayon, there are some fifty
towers. At Barabudur, the symbolical number is 73 (1 +172).

For Mr. Toganoo, this last number is explained by
the fact that there are 72 tantric gunas. But this number may
also have been suggested by iconography, or in regard to
architectural symmetry. Two explanations offer themselves,
not at all irreconcilable.

The three circular terraces of the Barabudur may be
seen from four sides, as the basis of the monument is a
pyramid. The terraces becoming smaller and smaller, the
little stdpa that could be placed upon them had to get fewer
in number : eight on the lower terrace, six on the middle one,
four on the upper terrace, that is 8+6+4=18 for each side,
and a total of 1[8x4=72. The reason of an architectural
symmetry might then account for the number 72.

Besides, at the beginning of the Saddharmapundarika, a
ray of light issues from the circle of hair which grew between
the Bhagabat’s eyebrows. This ray is directed towards the
18,000 countries of the Buddha situated on the east.’? 18,000
countries for one of the four orients make a total of 72,000
countries of the Buddha. The disposition, at the Barabudur,
of the 72 small stipas around: the terminal stiipa is identical
with that of the 72,000 countries of the universe around the
centre of the world. It seems likely that the architect, not
being able to represent the 72,000 Buddhas who reside in the
72,000 countries, has satisfied himself by putting in 72 only,

12 Saddharmapundarike, f. 4b., cf. transl. by Burnouf, p. 4.
THE TERMINAL STOPA OF THE BARABUDUR 167

in order to suit both convenience and symmetry. 72 and
72,000 are just conventional numbers, chosen to give an idea
of the numberless manifestations of the Great Enlightened.
Likewise, when; the sculptures show Avalokiteévara’ with
forty arms, when the texts call him Avalokiteévara of the
thousand arms, 40 and 1000 are conventional numbers again,
designed to mark the numerous activities of the god.”

Whether he has 33 shapes as in Burma, 50 shapes as at
the Bayon, 73 as we see at the Barabudur or 1001 as at the
Ta daiji, the essence of the dharmadhdtu is always the Great
One and Only which fills up the universe. At Java, as in
Indo-China, as in Japan, the sovereign identifies himself with
him. That is why in the empire of the Sailendras, the name
Sailendra belongs to both the king and the king of the gods.
Sailendra then’, could mean not only the dynasty, but Siva-
Buddha also, who was the highest entity in the Javanese reli-
gion. We know enough now to engage upon the study of
an obscure question. Which was the statue contained in the
terminal stupa of the Barabudur ?

The point jis a strongly contested one. The first
European visitors have not seen anything below the terminal
stipa, all blocked up by scattered fragments. In 1842, Resi-
dent Hartmann ordered excavations to be made, no authen-
tical report of which has reached us, and an unfinished statue
of Buddha would have been discovered then in the ruins.
M. Foucher has proposed to recognize in this statue a
reproduction of the famous one seen by Hiuan-tsang on the
actual place of the Bodhi.‘ This statue, which showed
Sakyamuni in the moment of the Maravijaya, was also an
unfinished statue. On the contrary, Dr. Krom thinks that
originally the stipa contained no image whatever, and that
some relics had only been put there. Dr. Stutterheim
believes that the stipa contained the unfinished statue of a
supreme and bodiless Buddha. M. Mus does not see that

13 About the statues of Avalokiteévara, the thoueand arms of which
are customarily represented by forty, cf. Waley, A Catalogue of paint-
ings recovered from Tun huang by Sir A. Stein, p. 31.

14 The unfinished Buddha of the Boro-Budur, BEFEO, t. 3, pp. 78-80.
168 J. PRZYLUSKI

the identification proposed by M. Foucher should be
damaged radically by Dr. Krom's objection.'®

In short, the authors hesitate between two hypotheses :
(1) there was no statue at all in the terminal stapa, (2) there
was an unfinished statue, the same which Dr. Krom des-
cribes as a ‘‘rough lump, thicker at one side than the other.”
Both hypotheses seem hardly likely. I wish to be allowed
the suggestion, of a third one.

According to Indian tradition, mount Meru is a mountain
of gold. In the inscriptions of Cambodia the royal mount is
of gold also. The central tower of the Bayon is called by
Tcheou ta kouan, the gold tower. The ideas of gold and the
cosmic mountain are closely bound together. As it was im-
possible to make a real gold mountain, would not the idea
have arisen of replacing it by a lump of gold, placed at the
centre of the world? Let us recall to mind the importance
of the gold coating on the great statue of the Tédaiji. The
Japanese authorities were anxious to find the precious metal
in, Japan. National gold was necessary in order to realize
the mystical union of the empire with the Great Enlightened.
It was desirable, then, that there should be in the centre of
the empire a statue of gold, or at least of gilded bronze,
because it was the point wherefrom the power radiates
which creates the cosmic and the social order.

This theory finds its confirmation in a Chinese text rela-
tive to the empire of San-fo-ts’i. It is extracted from the
Chu fan Chi of Chau Ju-kua written in 1226. ‘There is an
ido] (literally ‘“‘a Buddha’’) which is called the idol of the
Mountain of Gold and Silver. Its statue is cast in gold.
Each king just before mounting the throne, causes his own
image to be cast in gold to replace that statue. Vases and
plates of gold are made and solemn homage is paid to that
image. The golden statue, the vases and plates, all of them
bear inscriptions so that the future generations may not
destroy them.'"'® The Mountain of Gold and Silver could

15 Statement of the controversy in P. Mus, Barabudar, t. 32, pp. 344 ff.
16 Bibliography and discussion relative to this quotation in JGIS.,
I], 1, pp. 35-36.
THE TERMINAL STOPA OF THE BARABUDUR 169

only be the cosmic mountain, or jts replica. The emperor
being identified with the king of the gods must be enthroned
on the cosmic mountain: that is why his golden statue is
placed on the top of it and he is worshipped there. What
Chau Ju-kua writes in 1226 about the king of San-fo-ts'i,
alludes to politico-religious concepts which lie at the origin
of the Barabudur. Then it is likely that the statue placed in
the terminal stiipa was a gold statue, and this might suffice
to account for its disappearance.

Besides, some narrations, the origins of which are not
certain, accuse Resident Hartmann of having found a little
gold statue in the stapa, and of having stolen it: he would
have put the big unfinished statue at the same place in order
to divert suspicion.'7 This is not the place to judge Resi-
dent Hartmann for such an accusation. But it not infre-
quently happens that some such legend hundreds of years old
is ascribed much later to a recent date. This explains how
some old traditions relative to the theft of the statue may
have been put down finally to the credit of the 1842
excavations.

In short the Barabudur is a reduction of the cosmic
mountain surmounted by 73 stipas. Consequently, it is diff-
cult to look upon, it as only a stipa. At any rate it is widely
different from the old Indian stipa. It is an, imperial cons-
truction designed, like the Great Buddha of Tédaiji, to seal
the mystical union of the empire and of the universe. The
emperor, king of the mounts (Sailendra), identifies himself
with the supreme deity in the central stiipa. This Devaraja
ig at the same time Aksobhya, Bhattéra Buddha and Siva-
Buddha. Under which one of those names was he more
generally adored? It is impossible to tell.. But we must
refrain from simplifying the Barabudur. The central deity
must have been conceived in a different way by the initiated
and by the humble subjects of the kingdom. It is per-
missible to suppose that different names corresponded to the
different concepts.

17 Cf. P. Mus, Barabudur, t. 32, p. 346.
Kunjarakunjadesa of the Changal Inscription

By Dr. B. Ch. Chhabra

It is now over half a century since the stone inscription of
king Safijaya was discovered at Changal, Central Java, and
first published by the famous Dutch Indologist, Prof. H.
Kern.’ It has since been further commented upon on
various occasions. The epigraph is fairly well preserved,
except that the slab has chipped off at a few places, causing
short gaps in some lines of the writing. While the main
purport of the record, namely the establishment of a Sivalinga
by king Safijaya, is clear, the lacunae in the text have given
rise to some controversy over certain points of historic import.

I have elsewhere? had occasion to point out a few
changes in Prof. Kern's reading, which might necessitate a
modification in the generally accepted interpretation of this
document. In the present paper, | draw attention to one
such alteration.

Verse 7 of the inscription describes the island of Java
(yavadvipa).® In the second pada, two or three syllables
have been lost. Consequently the sense. of that portion is
not clear. In the third quarter, while some three akgaras are
likewise missing, some others have been blurred. Still Prof.
Kern has deciphered that part. His reading is: Srimat-

1 Bijdragen, deel 10, 1885, with a facsimile; Verspr. Geschr. deel
7, pp. 145-128.

2 JASB (Letters), Vol. I, 1935, pp. 34-37, with a photographic re-
production of the inscription.

3 The following is the text given by Prof. Kern:

~
KURJARAKUNJADESA OF THE CHANGAL INSCRIPTION 171

kufijarakufijadesa-nihi [tava] nsaditivadhrtam. It is this line
that we are to discuss here.

It may be shown that the latter half of the above reading
is hardly tenable. First the word nihita does not very well
suit the supposed sense. Besides, the metre requires a long
syllable where a simple [fa] has been suggested. The next
conjecture[va]ngad is equally unconvincing. Even if we
accept it as right, the following iti is inexplicable. The suc-
ceeding iva likewise. does not strike us as quite appropriate.
Finally the word addhrtam has little sense. It is not met with
in any Sanskrit work, though it can be conceived to possess
a derivative sense of the word ddhara. It will, however, be
seen that Prof. Kern. has taken this adhrtam to be an equi-
valent of ahrtam.

Nevertheless, the above reading has passed as final, and
on its interpretation various inferences have been based,
which must necessarily be wrong, if the very text is incorrect.

In accordance with his reading, Prof. Kern translates the
passage as follows: ‘‘and brought over from the
<<race>>, as one calls it, established in the blessed land
Kufijarakufijadega.''*

This phrase has thus been understood to qualify the Siva
sanctuary ({ambhoh sthanam) mentioned in, the last quarter
of the verse. Prof. Krom, while commenting upon. this,
points out that it is impossible to have transported an entire
temple from a distant land, as the above translation would
suggest. He passes over this difficulty by taking into account
the word iva which Prof. Kern seems to have left untrans-
lated.* His explanation is thus: ‘‘as if it were brought over"
as against Prof, Kern's “‘brought over.’’ In this way Prof.
Krom concludes that the Siva temple of Java was not literal-

4 The original Dutch being ‘‘(en) overgebracht van den in’t
gezegende land Kufijarakufijadefa gevestigden <stam>, gelijk men het
noemt.”’

5 Or perhaps Prof. Kern's “‘as one calle it’” (gelijk men het noemt)
answers to itfva rather than to iti only.
172 B. CH. CHHABRA

ly imported from Kujijarakufijedesa, but was modelled upon
one then existing in that land.®

This question of a Siva sanctuary being “brought over”
has, on. the other hand, suggested to Dr. Bosch’ another idea.
He sees an analogy between the Devaraja cult of Kambodia,
a similar tradition in Campa and the present instance in
Java. He thinks that there is a close connexion between
Siva, his linga, the ruling dynasty and a priest. The king
represents Siva and his majesty the linga, while the priest
plays the part of a mediator who receives the primeval linga
and hands it over to the founder of the dynasty as a palla-
dium. Dr, Bosch supposes Agastya to be the priest in the
case of king Safijaya.

While in Holland during the years 1931-34, I had
occasion to examine a photograph and a few estampages of
the Changal inscription at the Kern Institute, Leyden. |
read the passage in question as follows: Srimatkufijara-
kufijadegani- —— — ngaditirthavriam. This sounds, no doubt,
absolutely different from what Prof. Kern has read. Still |
venture to offer what | read from the impressions, and |
remember Prof. Vogel agreed with my reading. I do not
hazard filling the blank for three syllables. Seeing ngadi-
tirtha’, however, one feels tempted to supply a ga before it
and read Gangaditirthavrtam. And this is not impossible,
considering that the word gangad has been used to indicate
any holy river as well as the Ganges, the well-known Bhagi-
rathi. The akgara after ni has been read as hi, whereas to me
it looks more like si or pi. The next syllable has totally
disappeared.

The altered reading would yield quite a different sense,
namely: ‘‘surrounded by the holy places, Ganga and so
forth."” And if this is accepted, then neither Prof. Krom’s
explanation nor Dr. Bosch's inference would prevail any
longer.

6 N. Jj. Krom, Hindoe-Javaansche Geschiedenis, 2nd aim the

Hague, 1931, p. 124.
7 Ibid., and Tijdschrift, deel 64, 1925, pp. 236 ff. and 2 ff.
KUNJARAKUNJADESA OF THE CHANGAL INSCRIPTION 173

In my opinion, the above clause hag to be taken to
qualify yavadvipam “the Island of Java’’ rather than
gambhoh sthaénam ‘the Siva sanctuary’ of the verse.  [n
this case the word durtam may better be rendered by
‘‘studded with" or ‘‘abounding in.”

It will, however, remain obscure, in what velation the
foregoing Srimatkufijarakufijadega stands unless and until
the succeeding three akgaras be properly restored. Probab-
ly the missing word was one indicating comparison. On this
surmise we may explair the pasrage thus: ‘(the excellent
island of Java was) as abounding in holy places like Ganga
and so forth, as the blessed land of Kufijarakufija.”’

It may be noted that Dr. Bosch brought in Agastyva, even
though the Changal inscription makes no mention of this
sage. However, his association has been sought through
the occurrence of Kufijarakufijadega. Prof. Kem, by way
of identification, referred to the Kufijara or Kuftjaradart of
the Harivaméa (st. 12393). This is, as has been pointed out
by Prof. Kern, a region somewhere in South India, where
there are a mountain created by Siva and the abode of the
sage Agastya. It may be observed that the worship of
Agastya has been as popular in Java as in South India.
This fact strongly favours Prof. Kern’s identification.

Kufijaradart has later been located on the boundary of
the Travancore State and the Tinnevelly district in the ex-
treme south of India, on the authority of the Brhatsamhita
(XIV, 16).°

According to Messrs. Gangoly and Przyluski, Kufijara-
kufijadega is ‘a sacred site in Southern India on the banks

of the Tungabhadra.’’*

8 Cf. N. J. Krom, Hindoe-Javaansche Geschiedenis, 2nd edition, the
Hague, 1931, p. 125.

9 See above, Vol. II, p. 35; cf. O. C. Gangoly, The Art of Java, p. 4.
Mr. Lakshminarayan Rao has kindly directed my attention to Anegondi,
once the capital of Vijayanagera kings, at present the headquarters of
a Zamindari owing allegiance to the Nizam of Hyderabad, situated on the
north bank of the river Tungabhadra. In some Sanekrit inscriptions of
the 14th century this place is called Kyfijarakona, a literal rendering of
174 B. CH. CHHABRA

Prof, Nilakanta Sastri, however, supporte the former view
and opposes the latter, arguing that ‘‘the Brhatsamhita locates
the Kufijaradari along with the Tamraparni.’’!°

In fact the Brhatsamhita does not locate any country, but
gives, in six stanzas (XIV, 11-16), a jumbled list of the regions
of South India. The statement: Kaccho’tha Kufijaradari
sa-Tdmraparniti vijfeyah, does not, therefore, necessarily
indicate that Kufijaradari is situated between Kaccha and
Tamraparni. While this last mentioned refers to the well-
known river of that name in the Tinnevelly district, no place
is known as Kaccha in the same vicinity. We know of one
Kaccha (Cutch) which is in the Bombay Presidency, to the
north-west of Gujarat.

Bhatta Utpala, in his commentary Vivrti on the Brhat-
samhitd, quotes Paragara who has drawn up a similar list of
the countries, peoples, mountains and rivers of South India.
This list is in prose and follows a different order of enumera-
tion, yet not the successive. Here Kaccha is followed by
Bharukaccha and Tamraparna by Narmada, while Kufijara-
dart stands between Sarpaparvata and Sambhogavat?"

The same commentator explains Kufijaradari by Hasti-
khandad. This shows that the territory might have been
known under other equivalent names as well. On this
ground the whole range of ‘‘the Anaimalais, or elephant hills,
which extend from the Coimbatore district southward into
Travancore’’!? comes into consideration. The word ‘Anai-
malai’ is Tamil as well as Kanarese and is an equivalent of
the Sanskrit Kufjaraparvata. In the Sanskrit literature,
however, this range goes under the name of Malayagiri.
Ptolemy calls it Bettigo..* ‘In the southern portion of the

the Kanarese Anegondi. Cf. Epigraphia Carnatica, Vol. X, p. 299; A
collection of the inscriptions on copper-plates and stones in the Nellore
District, Madras, pt. 1, p. 120; Ind. Ant., Vol. XXXVIII, 1909, p. 89.

10 Tijdscrift, deel LXXV, 1935, p. 611.

HW Vizianagaram Sanskrit Series, No. 12, Brhataamhita, with the
commentary of Bhattotpala, edited by Mm. Sudhakara Dvivedi, Benares,
1895, p. 289.
KUNJARAKUNJADESA OF THE CHANGAL INSCRIPTION 175

ghats is the conical peak called Agastyamalai (6,200 feet),
where the sage Agastya Maharshi, who is regarded as the
pioneer of Aryan civilisation in Southern India, is supposed
still to live as a Yogi in pious seclusion.'"’? The Tamil‘ term
Podigei or Pothigei denotes the same peak.§ ‘The
Tamraparni river rises on the slopes of Agastyamalai, and
reaches the plains of the Tinnevelly district by the falls of
Papanaéam......... This is a very sacred spot, with a Saivite
temple, and is visited by large numbers of pilgrims.’’'*

It may now be shown that the summit Agastyamalai
is the same as Kufijaraparvata. Among the different mean-
ings assigned to the word Kufijara, one finds the following
in the Sabdakalpadruma: ‘‘degabhedah/ iti Sabdaratnavalt/ /
(parvuatavigesah// yatha Goh Ramayane, IV, 41, 50: “‘tatah
Sakradhvajakérah Kufijaro mama _  parvoateh/ Agastya-
bhavanam tatra nirmmitam Vigsakarmmand’’)."’ | have had
no access to the original sources quoted here; still it will be
seen that the details given in the above stanza remarkably
coincide with Mr. Thurston’s foregoing description of the
Agastyamalai.

The Bombay edition of Valmiki’s Ramayana (IV, 41,
34.36) gives a slightly variant reading.= The commentary on
the verse 35 points out that this Agastya-bhavana on the
Kufijaraparvata is the third place associated with Agastya,
as occurfing in the Ramayana. As regards the other two,

12 E. Thurston, The Madras Presidency, Cambridge, 1914, p. 18.

13. McCrindle’s Ancient India ag described by Ptolemy, edited by
S. N. Majumdar Sastri Calcutta, 1927, p. 78; Nundo Lal Dey, The
Geographical Dictionary of Ancient and Mediaeval India, 2nd edition.
1927, p 122, under Malaya-Giri.

14 E. Thurston, The Madras Presidency, Cambridge, 1914, p. 130.

15 The Ramayana of Valmtki with the commentary (Tilaka) of
Rama, 4th edition, Nirnaya Sagar Press, Bombay, 1930, IV, 41, 34-36:

ae Ayaraaerea: FIT AT Tas Naw
arrears am faRtd Rear |

ay aisrarencg rege Tea 32
ey aed fred aaicatratrrg |
176 B. CH. CHHABRA

one is a little to the south of Paficavatf, the modern Nasik,
not far from the source of the river Godavart,'® while the other
may be somewhere on the mount Malaya, near the Kaveri
river.?’

It may be remembered that in the Ramayana different
countries are mentioned on the occasion when Sugriva sends
out monkeys in all directions in quest of Sita. One may,
therefore, expect that the narrative follows the succegsive
order of the regions mentioned. This, however, does not
seem to be the case. It may be seen that Agastya occurs
twice in the same chapter, once on the mount Malaya, and
for the second time on the Kufijaraparvata as stated above.
The former is followed immediately by a description of the
river Tamraparni,"* while the latter by that of the city Bhoge-
vati.’* This last is apparently identical with the Sambhogavati
of Paraéara’s list. Moreover it appears from the Ramayana
that the Kufijaraparvata was situated somewhere in the ocean,
beyond Ravana’s country.”

16 Most probably i is the same as the modern Agastipuri, twenty-
four miles to the south-east of Nasik. Cf. Nundo Lal Dey, The
Geographical Dictionary of Ancient and Mediaeval India, 2nd edition,
1927, p. 217. Rama's visit to this hermitage of Agastya is described in
the Ramayana, III, chs. 11-13.

17 Cf. the Ramayana, IV, 41, 15-16:

ar rere ara faearcarcra:
TUT T ATATT ATCT ATTA 11920
reIaieaaearaea rae |

18 IJbid., IV, 41, 16-18:
AAAANATYIA: Teta AETEHAAT 1 9¥
areca sreset afters agracty |
wararatiae: SeeRgiranheat 09 ¢u

wrest grated AAeAaTE | etc:
19 Ibid., IV. 41, 36-38:
ae aibradt arar aaararers: TT AEN ete:

20 This is, however, not mentioned by the name Lenka or any
other: but only by the term dvfpa. Ibid., 1V, 41, 23.
KUNJARAKUNJADESA OF THE CHANGAL INSCRIPTION — 177

Leaving the discrepancy in the Ramayana out of con-
sideration, we may conclude that the modern peak Agastya-
malai ig the ancient Kufijaraparvata, that the country on
its slopes along the river Tamraparnt is identical with the
Kufijaradart and the Kufijarakufijadesa, and that the people
of that territory might have gone to Java by the 7th and 8th
centuries A.D.
Veda and Avesta

| By Dr. Batakrishna Ghosh
[Contd, from Vol. II, No. 2.}

Both in Skt. and Avestan an Indo-European s undergoes a
similar transformation after i, u, r and gutturals. It appears
that already in the pre-Indo-Iranian age the Indo-European s
in these positions had become an s- sound, the exact nature of
which cannot be determined. In Skt. this 3-sound further
changed into cerebral s. Fhe Indo-European superlative
suffix -isto appears as -ist(h)a in Skt. and -iSta in Avestan.
The sibilant of this suffix is the same as that in the com-
parative ending -yas- which appears both in Skt. and
Avestan, The transformation of the dental 9 into ¢ in, Skt.
and § in Avestan is therefore clearly due to its position after i.
The suffix -su in Loc. pl. shows a dental s after d but after i
and u it is invariably -su in Skt. and -iu in Avestan, cf. Skt.
agni-su, akté-su and Av. xéabri-su, vanhu-ju. The same
change of s may be observed in both the dialects also after
r and k, cf. Skt. t#sna, Av. tariné: Goth. Paursjan; Skt.
uksité, Av. uxseiti: Gr. auxdnd.

This characteristic of Skt. and Avestan is however shared
also by the Balto-Slavic languages, for in the original Balto-
Slavic too the Indo-European s seems to have become an
§-sound in similar positions. The transformation of s into §
after i out of Indo-European ® may however be regarded as
a peculiar feature of Indo-Iranian alone; even in the Balto-
Slavic languages nothing parallel can be found, for in them,
as in all other non-Indo-lranian, dialects (excepting Greek),
I.-E. ® coincided with I.-E. a and therefore did not give rise
to an i which might have wrought this change. Thus Skt.
kravig ‘flesh’, Av. xrvifyant ‘blood-thirsty’, Gr. kréas
(<I.-E.*qreves). The Greek personal ending -dsthés in 2.
sg. aor. med. has its,exact counterpart in the Skt. -ig- Aorist
ending -isthas. The initial vowel of this ending is a@ in
VEDA AND AVESTA 179

Greek and i in Skt.,—which proves that in the original Indo-
European it was a. Here we find again that an i <I.-E.
2 has cerebralised a dental s in Skt.

In the field of morphology one of the most striking
common innovations of Skt. and Avestan consists in the
employment of u as the reduplication vowel in the present
and of i or u as reduplication vowel in the perfect, parti-
cularly in the case of verbs with a radical i or u.

It is generally assumed on good grounds that the redupli-
cation vowel was originally always i in present and always e
in perfect, which latter naturally became a in Indo-Iranian.
Yet this distinction between present and perfect was not pre-
served intact in any Indo-European dialect, and the original
state of things in this respect was very much disturbed in the
Indo-Iranian dialects. But what is of particular interest to
us here is to note that the disturbances are exactly the same
in Skt. and Avestan. In both these dialects i is still predomi-
nantly the reduplication vowel in present; cf. Skt. tigthati: Av.
hiStonti (:Gr. histémi), Skt. sisakti: Av. hiSaxti,Skt. tyarti:Av.
(uz) yarat, etc. But the influence of the perfect reduplication
with e on the present reduplication may, be clearly per-
ceived already in the Indo-Iranian era; cf. Skt. ddédati, Av.
dadaiti, though the corresponding Greek form didési still shows
the original i in the reduplication syllable. In the same way
Skt. dddhati Av. dadaiti (: Gr. tithési), Skt. jéhati Av.
zazahi, etc.

The opposite influence of present forms on the perfect
was however even more far-reaching, so that even the ano-
malies of present reduplication were transferred to perfect
reduplication by analogy. In all this Avestan goes hand in
hand with Skt. At first the present reduplication) vowel i
crept into perfect reduplication in the case of roots contain-
ing an i; cf. Skt. didvésa, Av. didvaéSa (: dvig-), Skt. dsigdya,
Av. ahijdya (: sdy-). Gradually however this i made its
appearance also in the case of some of those roots which
contained no i; cf. Skt. vioésvdn, Av. vioanhusd(: vas-). The
only other quotable form of this type in Skt. is the doubtful
vivakudn (from vac-?), but several examples may be quoted

6
180 BATAKRISHNA GHOSH

from Avestan; cf. Av. didara beside dadara: Skt. dadhdra,
etc. In the same way the reduplication vowel u invaded the
perfect forms after it was firmly established in present re-
duplication. It is quite evident that on the proportional
analogy of distéh, digéte: didigténa (imperative) a form
jujustara with an u in the reduplication syllable automatical-
ly came into being on the basis of the simpler unreduplicat-
ed forms justéh, jusafe. © Gradually. in Skt. u became the
normal reduplication vowel in present in the case of roots
containing an u, but in Avestan the corresponding forms
still often show the original reduplicatiion vowel i; cf. Skt.
jujosate but Av. zizuste. Yet the analogical u is found also
in Avestan, cf. Skt. $dsrigati: Av. susruiamnd. From the
present this analogical u gradually made ite way also into
perfect and in Skt. it became even the normal vowel in per-
fect reduplication in the case of roots containing an u, just
as in present; cf. Skt. rurédha: Av. uriiraoda, Skt. titdva:
Av. titava, etc. Only two Skt. roots in -d have retained
perfect forms with the original a@ in the reduplication syllable,
e.g., babhiiva from bha- and sastiva (beside susuvé!) from
sa-. Yet Avestan, perfect forms of the former prove that in
the Indo-Iranian age both a and u could function as the
reduplication vowel of bha-, cf. babvar® (perfect of inten-
sive) and budva (to be read as buvava).

The peculiar passive aorist in -i used only in third
person singular is another striking innovation of Skt. and
Avestan, for which no paralle] can be found in any other
Indo-European dialect; cf. Skt. dvaci: Av. avai, Skt. $rdvi
{augmentless form in injunctive): Av. sravi, etc. The origin
of this form, which is so common, in Vedic that it came to
be substituted for the proper third person of any aorist
middle that is used in a passive sense, is quite obscure. It
is all the more striking therefore that in Avestan (and Old
Persian) this isolated passive aorist form appears in exactly
the same form and exercises the same syntactical functions.

Though not so obscure, but hardly less striking is the
element u which characterises the third person sg. and pi.
of imperative in active both in Skt. and Avestan. That
VEDA AND AVESTA 181

forms like Skt. bhdratu, bhdrantu: Av. baratu, barantu are
nothing but proper injunctive forms extended by the particle
u was recognised long ago. It is curious to note in this con-
nection that the deictic particle u is very often used after
imperative forms in the RV. and often it is an essential part
of the form itself; cf. éto (éta+u), tépa (tépatu). It is very
probable that this deictic particle was permanently joined to
the I.-E. injunctive forms in the Indo-Iranian age in two cases
of special frequency and gave rise to the Skt. and Avestan
imperative forms referred to above, for which parallel forms
can be found in no other Indo-European dialect. In two
other cases the personal ending of imperative exhibit analo-
gous innovations both in Sanskrit and Avestan. In 2nd person
sg. act. the usual ending is sometimes increased by -na in
Skt., cf. kdr-ta, kdr-tana. A similar phenomenon may be
observed only in; Avestan, where we find both the forms
bara and barand side by side. In Ist pers. sg. both the end-
ings -d (subj.) and -dni are current in Skt. and Avestan and
this is again a remarkable linguistic innovation common to
both. The ending -dni very probably stands for *ana, of
which the element -na is doubtless identical with the -na of
kdr-tana. Now it appears that already in the Indo-Jranian
age this ending *-dna, clearly of subjunctive origin, had been
changed into -ani on the analogy of 2nd and 3rd pers. sg. which
ended in -i. It is curious to note however that the impera-
tive forms in -tat, which are abundant in Skt. and have their
origin in the Indo-European age, cannot be traced in Iranian.

In noun inflexion many common linguistic innovations
may be observed in Skt. and Avestan. One may conveni-
ently begin with the ending -nadm in gen. pl. which is so com-
mon in these two languages. The I.-E. gen. pl. ending was
-6m, both for consonant and vowel stems. But in Skt. although
for consonant stems the older ending hasbeen retained on
the whole, a new form -ndm has been substituted for it in
the case of all vowel stems, the only exception in this res-
pect being devdm (for devdndm) in the phrase devdm jdnma.
Yet however, it is not altogether a specific Skt. or Indo-
Iranian innovation, for it is very probable that the ending
182 BATAKRISHNA GHOSH

-ném used to be applied to feminine -d-stems already in the
I.-E. epoch, cf. O. H. G. gebono, O. Norse runono. Per-
haps for i and d-stems too the same old alliance with the
ending -ném has to be postulated, for feminine forms such as
Lat. reg-ina, Gr. aischiiné prove the I.-E. antiquity of their
alliance with an analogical n. But this is all that can be
said in support of the pre-Indo-Iranian existence of the end-
ing -ndm. The -Gndm of a-stems is an Indo-lranian innova-
tion. It is true that in Avesta the ending -adnam is met with
only once (maiyanam= Skt. martyandm) and in all other
cases we find only the ending -anam. But the latter may
easily be a defective writing, for -Gnam, which is rendered

all the more probable by the fact that in Old Persian the only
form known is -Gndm. On the analogy of a-stems those in
i and u too began to employ -ndm instead of -dm, and that
already in the Indo-Iranian period, cf. Skt. girindm: Av.
gairinam, Skt. vdsanam: Av. vohunam, etc. Yet Skt. is
often left in the lurch by Avestan in these cases, for in it
i and u-stems often take the older shorter ending -Gm in gen.
pl., cf. Skt. sékhindm but Av. hakam, Skt. pasandm but Av.
pasvam. This shows that Skt. has gone farther than Avestan

in generalising the ending -nadm. Skt. forms such as nrndm,
pit?ndm (derived from r-stems) and further caturndm, gondm,
ganndm have no parallel in Iranian.

The declension of feminine -a-stems shows again a series
of stniking common innovations in Skt. and Avestan. The
case-sufhxes for Instr., Dat., Abl., Gen., Loc., and Voc.
singular of -d-stems show peculiar froms in both these langu-
ages which cannot be found in any other Indo-European
dialect. The old Indo-European ending -d in Instr. sg. is
also used for G-stems in Skt. and Avestan, specially in the
case of stems in -yd and -ta, cf. Skt. sukrtyd avirata, Av.
(ustand.) cinahya yesnyata. (It is possible however that in
both these cases the shorter ending igs due to haplology: -yd
stands for -yayd and -ta for -tata (i.e., -tat-a) ). But in both
the normal ending is the analogical -aya, which was origin-
ally at home in the pronominal declensien. The Dat., Gen.,
VEDA AND AVESTA 183

Abl. and Loc. sg. show dissyllabic endings in Sanskrit,
characterised by the common element -dy- : -ayai, -dyah,
-dyam, The corresponding Avestan endings are aydi, ~ayd
and -ayd, the initial short @ of all of which may be due
either to defective writing or to the analogy of the ending
-aya in Instr. sg. In the other Indo-European dialects the
corresponding case-sufixes are monosyllabic and such as
would cerrespond to the Indo-Iranian endings if their com-
mon element -Gy- were taken away. It is clear therefore
that already in the Indo-Iranian epoch this -dy- came to be
joined to the -d-stems in all these cases. Only a guess can
be made as to the origin of this -dy-: perhaps it is analogi-
cally derived from the i/yd-stems which have the endings
-yai, -yah and -yam in Dat., Gen., Abl. and Loc. sag.; ef.
devyat, devyah, devydm. In the original Indo-European the
-G-stems came to have the same ending -di both in Loc.
(-¢+7) and Dat. (-d+ ai). The postposition d was attached to
the Locative ending in the Indo-Iranian epoch! to distinguish
it from the Dative ending,—whence Avestan -*aya. Fur-
ther extended by the mobile element -am, which plays such
an. important part in nominal and pronominal declension in
Skt., it gave rise to the Skt. ending -dy@m. On _ the
analogy of this -dy@m on the one hand and the endings
-yai, -yah, -yam of i/yd-stems on the other, the element -ay-
was introduced also into the endings of Dat. and Gen.,-Abl.
of -d-stems in Skt. and Avestan (Bartholomae, Wackernage)).
Lastly in Voc. sg. the -d-stems both in Skt. and Avestan
have the ending -e (in Avestan beside it also the ending -a)
which cannot be paralleled by any other Indo-European
language; cf. Skt. sarame, Av. raziste (but also pouruZéista).
The origin of :his ending e in Voc. sg. is quite obscure, and
it is all the more striking therefore that it ia common both to
Skt. and Avestan. In the other I.-E. languages the Voc. sg.
ending of -d-stems is usually -a, which may be either derived
from 2 or, as the analogy of i-and u-stems suggests, may be

1 Or even still earlier, for the d-stems in Lithuanian too seem to
have extended the Loc. sg. ending by the post-position ¢; cf, Lith. -oj-e,
but O, Ch. SI. -e.
1804 BATAKRISHNA GHOSH

simply the shortened form of the radical -d in unstressed
position; cf. Gr. éphis: déphi, pechus: péchu, ndmphé:
nampha. In no case however can this -a be connected with
the Indo-Iranian ending -e.

It is well known that in Skt. the -i-stems take the ending
-au in Loc. sg. which is evidently derived from the -u-stems.
The original I.-E. ending in this case was -ai (cf. Goth.
anstei: Loc. ansiai), and this ending actually seems to be re-
tained in Skt. Agndy-i, which, according to the genial inter-
pretation of Brugmann, signifies nothing but ‘“‘the female
near Agni.”’ With the exception of thig sole instance in all
other cases this original ending was replaced by the analogi-
cal ending -au-, not only in Skt. but also in Avestan, for there
too the i-stems, beside the regular ending, show the same
analogical form in Loc. sg., though however the forms in
question are used exclusively as infinitives; cf. hagra.jata
‘to kill all of a sudden,” hubarata ‘to nurse carefully’ (the
final -d of these forms stands for -au). On the strength of
Greek forms like péléi (trisyllabic)<“pélévi (stem poli-) it
was suggested that this analogical transfer of the case-sufhix
of Loc. sg. is even of I.-E. antiquity, for *pdélévi was inter-
preted as “pdléu+i, of which -€u corresponds to Indo-
Iranian -du and i is nothing but the original Loc.-suffix attach-
ed to the form at a later stage. Yet however these peculiar
loc.-forms might have arisen independently on the soil of
Greece as Brugmann has pointed out.

Beside the endings -(i)ya@ and -ind, the only ones cur-
rent in classical Skt., the -i-stems often take the shorter end-
ing i in the older language; cf. besides utiyd, matyd, dhas ind
also dcitti. This shorter ending in Instr. sg. is again without
any parallel in the other Indo-Europeag languages if the
Avestan is excepted. There, with one sole exception,
namely haia=Skt. sékhyd, the -i-stems take only this short
ending in Instr. sg., cf. agi, Zisti, etc. Avestan -u-stems simi-
larly know only the shorter ending -a (written -w), cf. mainyu,
daénu, vohu, etc.,—the sole exception in this case being
xragwda =Skt. krdtvud (ending (u)vd). It is quite likely there-
fore that in the earliest Vedic the -u-stems knew also the
VEDA AND AVESTA 185

shorter ending -a in Instr. sg., though however no unambi-
guous form can be quoted from the extant texts to prove its
existence.

All these and various other common linguistic innova-
tions conclusively prove that Skt. and Avestan are to be re-
garded as a pair of twins within the brotherhood of Indo-
European languages. Yet we have to bear in mind that
neither Skt. nor Avestan represents a homogeneous language,
~—each of them contains a number of distinct dialects asso-
ciated with different ages and regions. It is natural there-
fore that the earliest Skt. agrees best with the earliest
Avestan, It is to be noted, however, that in various respects
the oldest Avestan is more archaic than the oldest Skt. In
the earliest Avestan Gdoa-dialect, for instance, the old
thematic personal ending -d (<I.-E. 3) in Ist. sg., is still retain-
ed, but even in the earliest Skt. there is no trace of it.
Already in the earliest Vedic the athematic ending -mi has
been generalised as in later Avestan. The working of
Bartholomae’s law according to which the group ‘ sonant
asp.+surd’ becomes ‘sonant+sonant asp.’, is again more
archaic in the Gaga dialect than in the earliest Skt., in which
both the'earlier and later forms are found side by side. I.-E.
roots with initial and final aspirates appear withian initial as-
piration in Skt. when the final aspiration is dropped, mostly on
account of contact with an s. But there are not a few excep-
tions to this rule in older Skt. Thus the aorist stem of dah-
(<*dhagh-) is daks- (not dhakg- as to be expected) and the
desiderative stem of duk- (<*dhugh-) is dukg- (not dhukg-).
These d-forms appeared to be so anomalous to the Vedic
commentators that in the Padapatha actually dh-forms are
given for them. The reduplicated stems baps- and jaks-
(derived from bhas- and ghas- respectively) are atill more
striking, for they have no aspirated form at all! at their side.
All this shows that the combination ‘aspirate+s’ exercised
the same influence on a preceding aspirate as an aspirate
alone. In other words we have to assume that at least in
these cases the law of dissimilation had acted at a time
when, due to contact with s, the final sonant aspirate had
186 BATAKRISHNA GHOSH

not yet become unaspirated tenuis (k-s, t-s, p-s), but had
given rise to combinations gzh (<gh-s), dzh (<dh-s) and bzh
(<bh-s) (metathesis of aspiration according to Bartholomae’s
law). These sonant groups at once give the impression of
being older than the surd ones. The apparent exceptions
to the law of dissimilation are therefore nothing but the result
of the same law acting at an earlier stage. Every doubt on
this score will be set at rest if the Avestan forms are com-
pared. In analogous cases the Gaga -dialect shows only the
sonant groups; cf. diwzaidydi (-bz-, written -w3-, from
-bh+8-), aogia (-g2- from -gh+s-) etc. In the later Avesta
however the surd groups sometimes occur; cf. hang®r®fsane
(-f3- from -bh+s-), daxia (-xi-from -gh+s-).

In a very few cases in the RV. a neuter plural takes a
singular verb. In this respect, too, the Gaga dialect is dis-
tinctly more archaic than the Vedic, for this incongruity is
the rule in it just as in Greek. In later Avestan however
such constructions are rare.

In comparison with later Avestan however, Skt. is dis-
tinctly more archaic, for later Avestan actually shows some
of the characteristics of Middle Iranian dialects. Inter-
vocalic consonants tend to become spirantic in it and the dual
number is gradually got rid of. Confusion in the use of
cases, already well-nigh hopeless in the Gagas, becomes still
more confounded in, later Avestan. The various moods and
tenses are no longer distinguished, subjunctive forms are
used in indicative, and the prohibitive particle md, which is
connected only with the injunctive in the Gaga-dialect just
as in Skt., appears also in connection with the optative in
later Avestan,

In, striking contrast with all other Indo-European dialects
Avestan, or Iranian as a whole, resembles Skt. in one im-
portant respect: the subsequent development of both, al-
though absolutely independent of each other, has been strik-
ingly alike. Phonology, morphology and syntax of Middle
Iranian dialects are unmistakably analogoug to those of
Middle Indian ones. The same general tendencies, which
were inherent in the two respective basic languages, found
VEDA AND AVESTA 187

expression in their later descendants in the same or similar
ways. This is again a powerful, though indirect, evidence
in proof of the close affinity of Skt. to Avestan.

Comparison with Avestan is therefore indispensable to
an historical study of Skt. On innumerable pointe, both
regarding general principles and particular details, Avestan
throws light on the history of Skt. as the above rapid com-
parative survey has shown. Who would, for instance, believe
that the original form of the familiar Skt. root bria- was mra-
if the verb mrav- was not actually found to occur in the
Avestan ?
COMMENT AND CRITICISM

“The Study of Javanese Literature in India”

Under the above title Dr. Berg has published in the
current number of the Annual Bibliography of Indian
Archaeology some critical remarks on my Indian Influences
on the literature of Java and Bali.’’ It is not the custom to
reply. to a book-reviewer, but as remarks have been made
which are not warranted by facts, not to speak of misuse of
the superlative degree, | apprehend that silence on my part
may mean acquiescence and have therefore been forced to
write this reply.

In judging my work Dr. Berg has completely ignored the
fact that it is written from an Indian point of view. The
works which do not betray Indian influences to a great ex-
tent, as for instance the Calon Arang, could not demand the
same attention as the Ramayana, the Bhdrata-yuddhe, or
even the Arjuna-vivdha. The Javanese element in these
works, though not unnecessary for understanding them as a
whole, could not but appear to me as a side-issue, because
my theme was not the Javanese elements themselves, but
rather the Indian aspect of the Indonesian literature. Even
then I did not neglect to point out as far as possible the
Javanese element in these works. Reference may be made,
for instance, to my studies on the Ramayana Kakawin, the
Korawasrama, the Agastyaparva, the Arjuna pralabda, the
Tantri kamandaka and other works. Moreover, it should not
be forgotten (as Dr. Berg seems to have done) that of hundreds
of old-Javanese works, not more than thirty or thirty-five have
been so far published. For the rest we have to rely mainly
on the MSS. catalogues. It is possible to ransack these
thirty-five works for Javanese elements, but what about the
rest? Any way, the Javanese elements have received the
share of credit that is due to them in a work that principally
deals with Indian influences on Indonesian literature. Dr.
COMMENT AND CRITICISM 189

Berg has raised another point. He says, “‘It is inadmissible
ta treat Middle Java and Eastern Java and their respective
literatures in exactly the same manner ........ +. It is necessary
to keep one's eye on the differences existing between the two
in order to judge correctly the final results of the influence of
India on the literature of Java.’’ This remark is out of place,
since so far from treating Javanese literature as one organic
whole. | have described each work separately, analysing the
Indian (and when possible, the Javanese) influences on the
same. Dr, Berg knows fully well that the place of origin of
most of the old Javanese works is not known, and as few of
these works have yet been published, a comparison between
the literatures of Middle and East Java is, to say the least,
premature. These circumstances are so obvious that Dr.
Berg should at least have referred to them. Regarding Dr.
Berg's theory, enunciated in the Hoofdlijnen, of ‘parallel
literature’ (which has yet to be generally accepted) I regret
I could not even refer to this, as the booklet reached my
hands too late. I may, however, here be permitted to re-
cord my views on the same. Historical traditions of Central
and ‘Eastern Java are bound to be different on account of the
diverse political and social factors at work in these two regions.
These factors make a good case for parallel traditions but not
for parallel] literature, because, to judge from extant works,
old-Javanese was the common vehicle of literature in Java
in the ancient period. And my book is principally concerned
with the ancient period.

The plan of my work has led me to consider the 'chrono-
logy of old-Javanese literature, the more so as each book
has been separately treated. If in determining the date of
one work | have become involved with other works, it is not
my fault. Dr. Berg may remember that Prof. Krom, whom
he quotes more than once, has, while discussing the
Smaradahana (Geschiedenis, pp. 298-99) felt it necessary to
utilise the data from the Vrtiasaficaya, Lubdhaka and the
Ramayana to elucidate the date of the first-mentioned work.

So far regarding the plan of my work and Dr. Berg’s
objections thereto. I shall now refer to the specific charges
190 H. B. SARKAR

made by him. Regarding the so-called Middle- Javanese
literature, its position with reference .to old and modern
Javanese literature, and its chronology (between 1478 and
1682), 1 was guided by an article on Javanese literature pub-
lished in the Encyclopaedie van Nederlandsch oost-Indie.
Dr. Berg has adversely criticised this view, but in doing so
he should not have ignored my further statement (/ndian
Influences, p. 11). ‘It must not be imagined vo. «
that this division of literary epochs is absolute—it merely
represents a rough classification of literary ideals and styles
in three distinct diversified forms." Dr. Berg's remark
regarding p. 160 ff. of my work misrepresents my view-point,
for I tried to show that the’ date of some figures on the list,
that of Udayan for example, exactly tallies with what is
derived from inscriptions. Dr. Berg could have easily
answered that this agreement of dates was accidental.

The impression which the critic has derived from the
first few chapters of my work, namely that the Indian colo-
nists turned Java into a miniature replica of Bharatavarga is
not correct so far as the interior regions are concerned. The
mighty architectural remains, the Record of It-sing, the
occurrence of Sanskrit inscriptions jointly indicate the great
influence exerted by the colonists on the cultural life of Java,
particularly on the colonised regions. | refer in this con-
nexion to the struggle of languages—Sanskrit and Javanese—
which resulted in the birth of Kawi, the artificial compromise
language. How again can Dr. Berg explain the fact that
70 p.c. of the old Javanese words are of Sanskrit origin, that
all the oldest inscriptions of Java are written in Sanskrit and
the Amaramalda, the oldest dateable work (c. 750-850), is an
attempt to teach Sanskrit? In the place of the Kalasan ins-
cription, c. 778 A.D., however, | should now read the stone
of Dieng, 809 A.D. This does not, of course, invalidate my
main contention that the old-Javanese language arose from
the struggle of the two languages.

On the date of the old-Javanese Raémdyana there is no
unanimity among competent scholars and it can hardly be
expected that my view will be accepted by all. In studying
COMMENT AND CRITICISM 191

this problem | have placed the data in a new light. This
has probably led Dr. Berg to make some remarks which are
indefinite, except that the introduction of ihe Vrtiaeayficaya
cannot be relied on for ascertaining the date of the old-
Javanese Ramdyana. Any way, as this introduction has not
been my mainstay, the acceptance or rejection of its evi-
dence does not affect my conclusion. [I wonder how one
can reject without consideration the persistent and indepen-
dent traditions tending to the same conclusion. While deal-
ing with the litga of Krapjak in TBG 74, has not Dr.
Stutterheim shown, how a particular tradition can run on for
a thousand years? Dr. Berg also forgets what | stated in my
book, that my chronology explains the existing data on the
problems of the Ramayana better. If Dr. Berg can prove
that the writers of the Lubdhaka and the Vrttasaficaya are
the same person, he will do a great service to Indo-Javanese
scholarship.

It is not also true to say that | have “‘taken it for granted
that the entire religious literature of the Hindus was trans-
planted to Java." While winding up the discussion on the
religious literature of Java (Indian Influences, p. 79) I have
said just the reverse thing: ‘“The Javanese people thus ac-
cepted the principles of the social hierarchy of India and
borrowed her religious views, but a substantial
portion of her literature bearing on
the subject practically remained seal.-
ed to them.” Similarly Dr. Berg’s statement that ‘‘the
possibility that the Vedas, together with the Brahmanas,
Upanishads, Sastras (a vague term, H.B.S.) and Sdtras may
have been of as little interest to the Javanese as the Indian
drama and several other branches of Indian literature, has
seemingly not struck the author, and so...... he has
not asked . . . . what were the causes of thie pheno-
menon”” ignores what | wrote on p. 396 and implied on p. 79
of my work. Whether the absence of thie literature has to
be attributed to the want of interest of the Javanese or the
loss of lontar-records which were not duplicated in later
times or whether the first Brahmanas compelled by neces-
192 H. B. SARKAR

sity to intermarry with the aboriginal inhabitants conscien-
tiously forbade the Vedic literature to polluted posterity in
spite of the interestedness of the Javanese—is a question
which may not now be answered with certainty. The last
two possibilities have been mentioned in the book. With
reference to Dr. Berg's remarks on pp. 44-45 of the Annual
Bibliography | have not admitted the fact that the Javanese
shadow-plays have re-oriented or transformed many Indian
epic stories. In judging the Wayang-stories we should take
Indian epics as the standard, because the outline or the ins-
piration has been drawn from them. So, if by working up
Indian myths into lakons, the Javanese redactors make
Narada a clown or present Ghatotkaca and Abhimanyu as
fighting over women, is that no harm to the Indian charac-
ters? Whatever be the motive for this transformation it
cannot but appear to an Indian viewing the problem from
the Indian standpoint (Indian Influences, Introd., p. 1) that
Indonesian presentation does scant justice to the original
characters.

Dr. Berg finds my characterisation of the Ndgarakrta-
gama as ‘more of a history than a poetical composition’’ to
be wrong. May I put the query, what was the occasion for
his explaining the name as ‘“‘the history of the growth and
blossoming of the ‘kingdom"’ (Inleiding, p. 61)? As the work
was written in verses the author was bound to pay attention
to the verse-technique. Dr. Berg quotes the authority of
Prof. Krom, but the latter scholar, while discussing the
sources of old-Javanese history, has not included the Nag
under the heading of literature and has referred to it
(Geschiedenis, p. 10) as one of ‘‘the couple of historical
works.” Elsewhere (/bid., p. 14) Dr. Krom also refers to
invaluable particulars of the Nag’. Does he not also say
(Ibid., p. 19). “ ... . It continues to be the history of the
ancestors of the king glorified in a panegyric . ”* and
that ““he (Prapafica) is in general perfectly reliable’ ? “There
are at least half a dozen explanations of the name of Bara-
budur. From the nature of the case, certainty cannot be
reached on such a question but one can never shut his
COMMENT AND CRITICISM 193

eyes to the possible alternatives. The theory about the
Saivite renaissance in 863 A.D. (misprinted in the Biblio-
graphy as 563) originally propounded by Dr. Goris in Theo-
logie appeared acceptable to me when I wrote my book, but
from my notes on the Pereng stone inscription te be publish-
ed in this journal, it will appear that Goris’s case is not so
strong as | took it to be. Any way those who are acquainted
with the influence of Satkaracarya in India and the history
of contact between India and Indonesia during this period,
will not wonder if that were really so. Regarding Maduran
literature, | should indeed delete the word ‘important’ but
in respect of the Wawekan Dr. Berg’s remark is, to put it
mildly, a travesty of truth. In no place of my work have |
accepted the data of the Wawaiekan excepting in the case
of the Ramayana, and that for special reasons. As to the
Brahmandapurana, Dr. Gonda’s edition reached me when a
few chapters of my work were already printed. The alter-
natives, open to me, were either (a) to rely on Friederich, or
(b) not to refer to the work at all. I preferred the former
course. I now gladly recognise that my reasons for a sup-
posed period of Vaignavism in Java were not adequate. If
I remember correctly, | was here led by an Encyclopaedia-
article. As to another point, when an Indian author writes
from India, the island of Sumatra is little indeed, but it does
not seem so to one writing from Holland or Great Britain.
If from, my work (p. 71) Dr. Berg gets the impression that
the Museum of Mojokerto is more important than those of
Batavia and Leidep, that is unfortunate because I have said
(Indian Influences, Introduction) that the major number of
MSS. is not available outside Batavia and Leiden. Regard-
ing the Kufijarckarna, 1 fear | have been a little misunder-
stood. What I said was that the work ‘‘may be” of Western
Javanese origin and that the ‘“‘oldest MSS.”’ has been, found
from that region: When other sources do not help us much,
the find-spot of the oldest MS. offers provisional indication of
its origin. Regarding the. position of women in Indonesia |
observed (p. 105), “The position of Indonesian women,
though not very high, was at least similar to or a little better
194 H. B. SARKAR

than, that of their Indian sisters."' Dr. Berg retorte, ‘Any
book dealing with adats of the Indian archipelago might have
told him that the position of women in Java is on the whole
more favourable than that of their sigters in India proper.’
Allowing ‘for Dr. Berg's confusion. of the present for the past,
is not this a paraphrase of my statement? Regarding his
remark on p. 114 of my work, I cannot do better than quote
Prof. Krom (Geschiedens, p. 11), ‘“The method whereby the
data have come to us is of twokinds . . . . The authors
especially those of the poems, have frequently offered, jat the
beginning or at the close of their works, .diverse informations
regarding themselves . . . . °° (Italics mine). | am,
however, thankful to Dr. Berg for pointing out that I should
have considered the possibility of Indian origin for the so-
called ‘‘small metres."” His remarks on jinn and the usadas
may be correct. In the following line Dr. Berg has misunder-
stood me. I have referred to the chronograms not as fixing
the date of particular works, but merely as “a mode of ex-
pression.”” As a mode of expression, they are certainly a
legion. Dr. Berg may refer to the Nag®. The explanation
of the name of the Tontu Panggelaran by Kern appears
doubtful to me now, but Dr. Berg's elucidation of the ‘linguis-
tic characteristics of two different epochs:present in the work
will be appreciated by all. Dr. Hidding’s Nji Pohatji Sang-
jang Sri is not yet available to me.

The possibility of the old-Javanese Ramayana being an
independent creation is ruled out by the consideration that
some portions of the old-Javanese text are an exact echo
of the text of Valmiki (cf. Indian Influences, p. 402). While
referring to 1200 early Javanese versions, | doubted its cor-
rectness, but the name of Mr. Kats, | thought, was a sufficient
guarantee for the genuineness of the information |! note
what Dr. Berg says about the date of the Uttaraka@nda and
the alternative explanation of ‘abilawa’. The old-Javanese
recension of the Bhagavadgita has been discussed by Prof.
Gonda only recently, and [| could not therefore utilise it for
my work. To an Indianist, the Sanskrit élokas of the old-
Javanese Mahabharata are of great value for solving the
COMMENT AND CRITICISM 195

problem of a complete recension of the Sanskrit text, and I
have recognised their importance (/bid., p. 241). Before
making the remark on Jaya-katwang, Dr. Berg should have
noticed Krom, Geschiedens, (p. 296), which I have followed
in some respects. Dr. Berg has certainly seer that my re-
mark on the source of the suluk was based upon that of
Stutterheim. My remarks on the lakon Mintaraga and on
Damar Wulan were based upon Juynboll’s article in the
Encyclo, Ned. Ind. IV. The title Koravasrama has not been
used on pp. 325-35 of my work and Dr. Berg might have
misunderstood the bearing of my statement on p. 325. I
note, however, that my reference to the Bal. translation of
the Bhomakdavya, based on Dr. Juynboll, is not correct. Dr.
Berg writes that Poerbatjaraka has ‘‘certainly never written
anything on the subject of Panji romances.’ Dr. Poerbat-
jaraka has certainly written on the same and it may be seen
in TBG, LVIII, pp. 461-489. I recognise the importance of
Dr. Rasser’s researches, but the results are so startling that
we shall have to await further light from other sources (ethno-
logy for instance). The last part of the history of Majapahit
falls between 1378-1478, and 1278-1478 is a printing mistake.
Regarding the last note on p. 402 of my work, Dr. Berg has
misunderstood me, as the earlier opinion refers to that of
Kern which is no longer acceptable. My work is principally
based on Dutch sources. If Dr. Berg has noted the foot-
notes of my work, his remarks on my study of old and new
Javanese languages would not have arisen at all. All books
and articles concerning Indonesia do not reach [ndia, but |
have tried to make the best use of those available here. Dr.
Berg recognises the importance of maintaining contact be-
tween the two poles of research. If Dutch and Indonesian
scholars make it a point to present copies of their works to
the Greater India Society, which centralises Indian intellec-
tual curiosity on Greater India, the work of their Indian col-
leagues will be more fruitful and the task less arduous.
Unbiassed readers may now judge for themselves what
is the nature of Dr. Berg’s ‘‘critical remarks.’" I do not pre-
tend that my book is free from all blemishes. In a pioneer
8
196 H. B. SARKAR

work of this character small mistakes are inevitable, but they
are not such as to provoke rancorous remarks from a sober
scholar. Dr. Berg should remember that in old-Javanese
matters there is always room for doubt and one should not
misuse terms like ‘certainly’, ‘unfortunately’, ‘goes too far’,
etc.

H. B. SArRKar.

A CORRECTION

In the previous issue of this journal (Vol. III, .pp. 111-12)
I wrote that the date of a Solo copper-plate (No. 193) was
read by Poerbatjaraka as 849 Saka and by Goris as 829
Saka. In the same connection | observed that this latter date
was contested by Stutterheim who subscribed to the reading
of Poerbatjaraka. Dr. Stutterheim now kindly informs me
that while discussing the Gorang Gareng plate, he did not
contest the reading of the date by Goris. The misunder-
standing arose from my inferring that the numeral 4 in the
plate of Gorang Gareng (which Dr. Stutterheim considers to
be certain) was also applicable in the place of 2 of the date
in the Solo-plate, thus making the date run as 849 Saka. In
Old-Javanese inscriptions it is really difficult to differentiate
between 2 and 4. 1 therefore very willingly delete the por-
tion referring to Dr. Stutterheim.

H. B. SARKAR
NOTICES OF BOOKS

The Javanese Version of the Bhagavadgita. By J.
Gonda, Utrecht. Reprinted from Tijdschrift voor Ind. Taa!-,
Land- en Volkenkunde, Deel Ixxv, 1935, pp. 36-62.

Of the Javanese adaptation of the Mahabharata, only
eight out of eighteen Parvans have so far been brought to
our notice by the labours of the Dutch scholars. The
present short but interesting paper is a study of the Javanese
version of an important part of the Bhigma Parvan, viz., the
Bhagavadgita; it will appeal not only to the professional
scholar but also to all those who take an interest in the
history and adventures of the Great Epic.

In spite of the comparatively recent date (circa 1000 A.D.)
of the Javanese version, which however precedes that of
any known manuscript, it possesses a considerable import-
ance for critical purposes as an independent testimonium.
It does not, however, give a complete translation of the
Sanskrit epic; it offers a more or less abridged adaptation, in
Javanese, of the original. As such, it hardly affords much
assistance for determining the complicated text-problem of
the epic; but to the text-critic its chief value lies in the fact
that throughout the Javanese adaptation are scattered direct
quotations from the Sanskrit text, consisting of a Sloka, or a
part of Sloka, or sometimes even a single word. As a rule,
these Sanskrit excerpts are given in an extremely corrupt
form, but are followed by a more or less literal translation
into Old Javanese.

Dr. Gorda assures us that the paper under review is the
preliminary to an edition of the Javanese text of the Bhaga-
vadgita which he is going to publish. His present object is
to give. an indication of the differences, as well as agreements,
of the Javanese text with that of the Sanskrit epic; but he
maintains that in order to do so it is necessary to study the
entire Javanese text and not merely the Sanskrit quotations.
Accordingly he gives us an English translation of the
198 NOTICES OF BOOKS

Javanese text, with a rapid comparison of the contents of
each Adhyaya with the summary of the Vulgate giyen by
R. G. Bhandarkar in his well-known work, Vaignavism,
Saivism and Minor Religious Systems. Dr. Gonda finds that
there is much that is missing or is skipped over in the
Javanese version; but he comes to the general conclusion
that ‘‘the Old-Javanese Bhagavadgita, as we have it, is a
rather good translation. He believes that the Javanese
author has given only those parts of the subject-matter which
he considered to be the most important, and deliberately left
out the remainder. He has thus made his: own selection and
set forth, on the basis of his Sanskrit copy, the outlines of
what Dr. Gonda calls a shorter Javanese Gita. On the other
hand, Dr. Gonda believes that in some of these points his
text surprisingly agrees with the Kashmirian recension des-
cribed by Schrader. Incidentally he discusses the relation
between the Javanese text and the quotations found in Al-
beruni; but he himself admits that the result of his comparison
is, on the whole, very poor.

It should be clearly understood that the value of the
Javanese version, as indeed of all versions of the epic, de-
pends upon the value of the tradition which it is found, on
examination, to represent; and until this problem is determin-
ed it is possible to exaggerate its importance. It must not
be forgotten that from time immemorial the epic existed in
local versions; and that this process was not stopped even
by scriptal fixation has now been amply demonstrated by the
critical edition published by the Bhandarkar Oriental
Research Institute, Poona. It is indeed true that the
Javanese version gives us a form of the text which
is far older than our existing manuscripts, but it
establishes nothing beyond the fact that it is evidence only for
the text of the epic as it existed in that particular local form
in that century and was known to the Javanese adapter. Like
our manuscripts and like other versions, it is thus one of the
evidences (albeit uninfluenced from that century onwards);
but its collatera) testimony does not prove anything regard-
ing the character of the original Mahabharata.
NOTICES OF BOOKS 199

It is desirable, therefore, to determine the tradition of
the Sanskrit epic which the Javanese author accepts. The
agreements with the Kashmirian version would not be. very
surprising if it could be established that the Javanese version
of the Bhagavadgita followed the Northern Recxnsion. If,
on the other hand, it could be shewn that it followed the
Southern Recension, then these agreements would not be
secondary but original, and would, therefore, possess immense
value to the text-critic. In this investigation, however, Dr.
Gonda is naturally handicapped by the fact that no critical
edition of the Sanskrit text of the part with which he is con-
cerned has yet been published. Neither the Vulgate nor the
so-called ‘South Indian text is of much assistance in this direc-
tion, for they do not give us any idea of the text of the various
recensions and versions. Dr. Sukthankar has shown that
the text of the Sanskrit Adi-parvan, which was followed
by the Javanese adapter of the same, belonged to the Northern
Recension. The Northern (Vulgate) version is also followed
by the Javanese version of the Udyoga-parvan, the Sanskrit
text of which the present writer has undertaken for the Poona
edition. But it appears that the statement does not apply
so definitely to the case of the Virata-parvan. Ag a matter
of fact, the problem is probably different for the different
books of the Mahabharata. It would be interesting and
important, therefore, to know what recension was followed
by the Javanese writer of the Bhisma-parvan in general and
the Bhagavadgitad in particular. But the problem cannot be
definitely solved until the critical edition of this Parvan, which
would give us an exact idea of the different recensions and
versions, is published.

Dr. Gonda’s labours, however, must not, for this reason,
be taken as fruitless. There cannot be any doubt that he has
rendered a distinct service to the study of the epic text by
translating the entire Javanese adaptation of the Bhagavadgita
into English. He might have also reproduced the Sanskrit
excerpts, as he found them, and not as he wants to emend
or reconstruct them, along with his translation of these
passages. But he will probably do this when he brings out
200 NOTICES OF BOOKS

his intended edition. In the meantime, all interested scholars
will eagerly look forward to what he has promised and what
he has ably justified by this short but highly suggestive essay.

S. K. De

Gids in het Volkenkunde Museum, XIII. De
Indianen en Boschnegers van Suriname: By B. M. Goslings,
127 pp. Issued by the Koninklijke Vereeniging Koloniaal
Instituut.

Some useful monographs have already been published in
this series by well-known authors. The work under review,
which forms No. XIII in the series, is meant to serve as a
guide to the Ethnological Museum of the Colonial Institute
and is devoted, according to our author, to the Indians and
Bush-niggers of Suriname, as Dutch Guiana is usually desig-
nated by the people of the Netherlands. The title of the
work, however, is somewhat misleading, as the book principal-
ly describes the handicrafts of the Indians and the Bush-
niggers of Suriname, rather than the peoples themselves.
The introductory portion of the work is aptly devoted to a
short history of the place and to the above-mentioned in-
habitants of interior-Suriname, specimens of whose handi-
craft preserved in six cabinets and other show-cases of the
Museum have been consummately described by Mr. Goslings.
The reproductions in the work show that some of the wood-
work and pottery are of excellent workmanship. Mr.
Goslings has well executed his work, but a map of Suriname
would have increased the general utility of the book.

H. B. SARKAR

Inleiding tot de ethnologie van de Indische Archipel:
By J. Ph. Duyvendak, forming Vol. I of the Indische
Cultuur-Historische Bibliothek, pp. 201, Batavia, 1935.

Within the last 50 years progress has been made in the
study of the ethnology of the Indian Archipelago, but in many
of its phases not even the rudimentary work has been done.
NOTICES OF BOOKS 201

Though the present work is not comprehensive, it has sought
to give a unity to the results of research achieved so far. The
author has handled the data with ability and has produced an
eminently readable work. His coinage of some ethnological
terms (p. 71ff) is generally commendable. The work opens
with a tirade against the use of the terms ‘‘Nature-folke’’ and
‘*primitives’’ and recommends ‘‘Not-historical folks’’ ag the
most suitable one; he has not, however, discarded the use
of the first two terms (pp. 32, 101, 102, 160, etc.). Pp. 19-27
have been devoted to a consideration of the people of the
Indian Archipelago in respect of their Negrito, Weddoid, and
Malay elements. As one person does not possess all the traits
of a race, a plea for racial and cultural study for ethnology
is made on pp. 28-29. The second chapter offers an ethno-
graphic sketch of the Mentaweiers and is chiefly based upon
the valuable studies of Alb. Kruyt. The succeeding two
chapters, those on society and religion, are moet interesting
from the ethnological point of view and should provoke further
research. The last chapter is aptly devoted to the culture-
complex of the primitive and the modern world, and this
brings the present work toa close. The bibliographical notes
have greatly increased the value of the book. It may be safely
recommended to those who wish to have a good idea of the
subject without going through a number of text-books. The
work should have contained an index.

H. B. SARKAR

Hayagrivat The Mantrayanic Aspect of Horse-cult in
China and Japan. By R. H. Van Gulik. Published by
E. J. Brill, Leiden, 1935.

To investigate the origins of a deity belonging to a parti-
cular cult, as well as to trace its gradual development not
only in the environment of its original sphere but also in its
newer surroundings when it is included in the pantheon of
another cult of the same culture-area is a task worthy of
accomplishment. To do full justice to it, the researcher
has to examine in detail all the available data of a religious
202 NOTICES OF BOOKS

nature, especially in their mythological and ritualistic as-
pects from the earliest period onwards; for in this way alone,
he can not only detect the different stages underlying the
gradual development of the ideology about the particular
divinity, but also to offer explanations for the successive
changes. The importance of his task is further enhanced,
when he tries to follow the migration of the above-mentioned
god-concept into distant countries and to trace the stages
leading to its inclusion into the ritual and mythology cf
these lands outside the culture-area of its origin.

Mr. R. H. van Gulik has set before himself this task
in, his recently published Hayagriva, and it must be admit-
ted that he has fulfilled it-with credit. Though he limits his
subject to the Mantraydnic aspect of the horse-cult in China
and Japan, he has rightly prefaced his study by a brief refer-
ence to the nature of the Mahayanic gods and a compara-
tively full treatment of the question about the first appear-
ance of Hayagriva in Indian mythological tales, closely asso-
ciated with the cult of Visnu. Hayagriva first makes his
clearly recognisable appearance in the epic literature of
India. He was the deliverer of the Vedas from Madhu and
Kaitabha, the two demons who stole them from Brahma, and
it was he who restored them to Brahma. In certain (presum-
ably later) portions of the great epic, however, Hayagriva ap-
pears also as the name of a demon, an ally of Tarakasura,
who was an inveterate enemy of Visnu and other gods and
who was killed by Visnu inthe Taraka War. Some late
Puranas like the Bhagavata and the Agni assign as the motive
for destruction of this demon the theft of the Vedas by him
The god Hayagriva, however, is now or even earlier, defi-
nitely incorporated in the list of the various incarnatory
forms of Visnu. The author has noticed all these points in
detail; but his remarks (p. 17) that ‘the passage in Vignu
Purana (V, ch. 17) is the only one in the old literature ;where
the horse-form of Vignu is positively mentioned in the list
of the Avataras’ and that ‘this passage is a latter interpola-
tion’ are open to objection. Thus in the list of the 39
vibhavas (avatadras) mentioned in the Ahirbudhnya Samhita
NOTICES OF BOOKS 203

(5.50 ff.), which according to Schroeder belongs to the older
and authoritative group of the Paficaratra Samhitas, Vignu’s
Vadabavaktra, i.e., Hayagriva form occupies the | Ith . posi-
tion. So, Nabhadasa’s mention of the same form as the
18th avatdra of the Lord Visnu in his Bhaktaméla is based
on the much earlier Pajficaratra tradition. As Visnu has this
form, so the demon Hayagriva after his death in the hands
of Visnu in the Taraka battle, assumes the shape of the
horse-demon, Kedin in the forest region of Yamuna (Yamuna-
vana) to kill Vasudeva, another vibhava of Visnu. The
killing of the Hayaraja, i.e., Keéin is referred to at least twice
in the great epic, once in the Drona Parvan (5.3), and again
in the Udyoga Parvan (130.47), where Vasudeva Kygna's ex-
ploits both in his early and mature ages are being recounted
respectively by Dhrtarastra and Vidura; but here there is no
reference to his having been an incarnation of the demon
Aévagirah.

In these stories we can certainly detect the various
stages in the development of the myth-forms. If we try
however, to seek for the nucleus of these myths in earlier
literature, we tread on uncertain ground. The reference in
the. Udyoga-parvan (ch. 99) to the Hayagira Aditya who, on
every auspicious occasion, rises from the Patala region and
fills the world called suvarna with Vedic hymns, suggest
that this passage marks an early stage in the possible deve-
lopment of the idea of Hayagriva Visnu who was an Aditya,
from the sun-horse conception of the Vedic period. The
author draws our attention here to the horse-shaped Dad-
hikra (Dadhikrévan), mentioned in various hymns of the
Rgveda, who is none other than the sun-god himself con-
ceived in a theriomorphic form. But it is curious that he
should refrain from alluding in this connection, to the Vedic
Rsi Atharvana Dadhyafic who was endowed with a horse's
head by the Aévins in order that the twin-gods might learn
from the seer the madhuvidya which was taught to the sage
by Indra or Tvastr. The author's reference to the efforts of.
certain scholars to connect Dadhica with a horse’s head with
the general conception of the horse-headed figure (p. 17,.
204 NOTICES OF BOOKS

n.2 of his monograph) is not commensurate with the import-
ance of the subject. The author, again, seems not to have
been able to enunciate fully his proposition, viz., that the
function as fecundity-symbol is credited to the horse on ac-
count of phallic considerations, to which category the identi-
fication of Hayagriva and Vignu and the Agvamedha in
general belong; it is indeed unlikely that this will ever be
proved beyond doubt.

The early references to Hayagriva, the restorer and the
reciter ‘of the Vedas fully prove that he was primarily a deity
presiding over knowledge and wisdom. This characteristic
trait is throughout maintained in the Brahmanical concep-
tion about the god. The number of late manuscripts on
Mantra and Mantra Kalpa centering around Hayagriva,
which is noticed by Prof. Kuppuswami Sastri in his Trien-
nial Catalogue of Manuscripts (Vol. VI, Part I) for the Madras
Government Oriental Manuscripts Library, clearly proves
this point. The Hayagriva pafijaram begins thus: Srihaya-
grivapafijaramantrasya Brahma Rgih, gayatrichando Haya-
grivo devata, etc.; in the Hayagriva kavaca (said to have been
taken from the Hayagriva tantra) we have :—Om Hayagrivaya
Suklavarndya jfidnamartaye Omkdraya acyutaya Brahma-
vidyapraddyakdya suvdha; the Hayagriva-stotra begins with
this couplet: Jfandnandamayam devam nirmalasphatika-
krtim/Adhaéram sarvavidyandm Hayagrivamupasmahe | /;'
and Vedantadeégika, the great Sri-Vaignavite teacher of the
south aptly sings the praise of this god in his Hayagriva-
stofra in this vein: Tusdradrisamacchayam  tulasidama-
bhisanam/ Turangamamukham vande _ tungasdarasvata-
pradam// Abhangurakaladana-sthilalakgatvamiyuse/ Tun-
gaya mahase tasmai turangaya mukhe namah//. Many
of the iconographic descriptions of this god substantiate
this view; thus, the Visnudharmottaram passage (Part Ill,
ch. 80, verses 1-6) about the eight-handed form of Haya-
griva distinctly describes it as a part of Samkargana (Sam-
kargananga) who is himself that emanation of the lord (Para-
Vasudeva) in which two, viz., jidna and bala of the six-fold
aigvarya are specially predominant. The element of fear
NOTICES OF BOOKS 205

underlying the character of this divinity in its Brahmanical
aspect is present to a certain extent; but this does never
outweigh its primary trait. This fact has not sufficiently
been emphasised by the author in the second chapter of his
monograph. When the god-concept Vignu-Hayagriva was
adopted into the cult of the Mahayana Buddhism as Vidya-
raja Hayagriva as an aspect of Avalokitegvara as early as the
beginning of the 6th century A.D., this characteristic trait
was given a new orientation. This Vidyaraja the king of
the Vidyadharas, the carriers of magical knowledge or magic
power, came gradually to be conceived as a divinity with
terrific features chiefly invoked for the fulfilment of one’s
desires and for abhicdra purposes, though its earlier placid
and benign aspect is not totally lost sight of (cf. Bhattacarya,
Buddhist Iconography, Pl. XLII]. 1). Certain Brahmanical
manuscripts of a late date lay down this fierce trait; thus,
the Hayagrivastram (Kuppuswami Sastri, ibid.) begins with
-“Om am hraum sphura sphura prasphura prasphura ghora
ghoratera Hayagriva ehi ehi suriipa Ksiragaura hayadnana
cata cata pracata pracata kaha kaha aégvavaktra bhrama
bhrama bhraémaya bhrémaya bhasmikara bhasmikara, etc.
and ends thus—Hayagrivamahdstram ca vijavandham satot-
taram/ Ajutam ca japennityam atyantam subhaddyakam] /
Sarvarogaharam gastram sarvanistavinaganam/ Sarvasiddhi-
karam caiva = sarva-gatrunikrntanam// —Mahaigvaryapra-
dam caiva mahdvagyakaram tatha/ Ityddisugunairyuktam
Hayagrivastrameva ca//’ That this was certainly due to
the Buddhist mantrayana influence on Brahmanical Hinduism
is clearly proved by another manuscript in the same collec-
tion, viz., Hayagrivamalamanira which begins thus—
‘Athdto bhagavantam sarvalejonidhim sarvadustaduritavi-
dhvamsinam mahdavidyarajaripindm Hayasirasamavartayi-
syami.”

It is not certain whether there existed in old China the
cult of the horse considered as a fecundity symbol; in Japan
however, it might have been papular from the early mytho-
logical age. But when the Buddhist Hayagriva was introduc-
ed in both the countries by the preachers of the Mahayana
206 NOTICES OF BOOKS

cult the developed concept of mantrayanic aspect of this
deity took deep roots there. This is clearly evidenced by
the dharanis, mantras and the mudrds especially associated
with this cult in those countries. The author's elaborate
notices of the sixth chapter of the Chinese text of the
Dharani-samgraha or Dharani-samuccaya (the greater part
of which particularly treats of this figure), and of the Japanese
canon about the same, supply us with ample materials for
substantiating this point. In course of his historical survey
of the migration of Hayagriva to these lands far away from
India, the author has tried to establish the point that
‘Hayagriva won for himself a place in the foreground, and
syncretestically or otherwise, incorporated local gode in his
own person’ especially in Tibet, in Mongolia, and to a cer-
tain extent also'in Japan; and this fact might also have great-
ly contributed to the development of the particular trait
which we have tried to emphasise in the course of our
present review.

The author modestly describes his effort as only of a
preliminary and fragmentary character and claims the indul-
gence of his readers by an apt quotation from the Dydtaparva-
dhydya of the Sabhaparva of the great epic. Though his
readers may not see eye to eye with him in every finding of
his, yet it must be admitted that the critical handling of the
multifarious data brought in by the author in the discussion
of various problems and the scholarly restraint with which
he has enumerated the many curious ritualistic details con-
nected with his theme have entitled hie achievement to
rank as an able and meritorious one.

JITENDRA NATH BANERJEA

Agastyaparwa, uitgegeven, gecommented en vertaald
door J. Gonda, overdruk uit de Bijdragen tot de taal-, land-
en Volkenkunde van Nederlandsch-Indié, dl. 90 afi. 2-3,
1933, dl. 92 afl. 3, 1935, dl. 94 afl. 1-2, 1936.
NOTICES OF BOOKS 207

Dr. Gonda has already earned a well-deserved reputa-
tion as the editor of the Old-Javanese Brahmandapurana. The
work under review is characterized by the same comprehen-
siveness that marked his earlier work and every page of it
bears the stamp of his wide reading. It presents for the
first time a critical edition of the text of the Agastyaparwa
(based on eight or nine MSS.) containing besides the trans-
lation, textual criticism, critical notes, glossary of important
words not found (or:partly found) in the standard dictionaries
and so forth. Dr. Gonda has well handled the Sanskrit data
in connection with his attempt to trace the sources of the
present work, but as he does not go far enough in this direc-
tion, an Indian Sanskritist may profitably resume the investi-
gation at the point left over by Dr. G. The contents, com-
position, nature and origin of the Agastyaparwa have been
discussed by the author (ibid., pp. 337-338) with hig usual
good sense and caution. We notice, however, a slight mis-
take on p. 385. It is not true to say, as Dr. G. does after
Krom, that Sandhyddwaya (‘the two twilights’) does not
occur in the curse-formulae of inscriptions after the time of
Airlangga. In copper-plate No. IV of Bluluk (OV., 1919,
Bij!. G.) dating from the Majapahit period (cf. Krom,
Geschiedenis,? p. 384), the word has been explicitly men-
tioned in pl. VI, r°. |. Similarly, in line 7, second face of the
inscription of Nglawang, TBG., 53 (1919), pp. 411-412, re-
ference has been made to the dwisandhye (obviously the
same as sandhyddwaya) and this record also dates from
the Majapahit period. But these and a.few others are essen-
tially minor mistakes and they do not detract from the high
value of the work which has entailed considerable research
on the part of the author. The author's task has been exe-
cuted exceedingly well. As the work is closely connected
with Sanskrit Puranic literature, it is commended to the
notice of the Sanskrit scholars of this country, and to the
students of Sanskrit Puranic literature in particular.

H. B. SARKAR
208 NOTICES OF BOOKS

Koninklijke Vereeniging Koloniaal Instituut, Ams-
terdam, vijf en Twintigste jaarverslag, 1935.

The Colonial Institute of Amsterdam was established
on the I 1th August, 1910. Since then it has spread its activities
in various directions and has undertaken some useful publica-
tions. The present report gives a résumé of its activities for
the last 25 years.

H. B. Sarkar.

The India that is India: By Elizabeth Sharpe.
Published by Luzac & Co., London.

Miss Elizabeth Sharpe lived in India for nearly a quarter
of a century and occasionally enlightened Anglo-Indian and
American readers by publishing articles in the Illustrated
Weekly and in the New York World. These desultory
writings are now published, as she admits in her Foreword,
“to prevent Europeans applying their own standards of
judgment in solving problems which are essentially matters
for the Eastern people alone.”’ In her sanctimonious ‘‘Con-
clusion,’’ she makes her propaganda more crudely palpable
when she unctuously rebukes England for “her mistake in
this careless implanting of her democratic ideas in the soul
of an intensely conservative people.” She hopes, however,
that the world will ultimately know ‘“‘the greatness, the
liberality and the magnitude of England who having gained
all, gave back all!’ The concluding phrase may have
served as a better title for her veiled political pamphleteer-
ing, for she has written only a mediocre ‘Mother India,"
lacking the literary verve and aggressive venom of Catherine
Mayo. Earning her salary as the Private Secretary to the
Thakore Shahib of Limbdi, she has shown little respect for
the ladies behind the Purdah and as little knowledge of the
Indian girls about whom she has naively generalised. We
wonder if the writer ever moved out of the enclosure of the
Indian States and talked to a few of our College girls cr
NOTICES OF BOOKS ; 209

our women leaders like Dr. Muthulakshmi Reddi of Madras
or Dr. Mrs. Karve of the Women’s University, Poona. Her
ignorance of India outside the Indian States ‘s colossal and
she insidiously applies to all Indians whatever she detects
as reprehensible in any isolated individual or community.
She omits conveniently, however, to mention a few pro-
gressive Indian States, like Baroda (so near to her), Mysore
and Travancore. With only 6 or 7% of literacy at the pre-
sent day, India has produced thinkers and writers, political
leaders, social workers and  philanthropists—men and
women—whom Miss Sharpe might have saluted gracefully
before quitting this country. But she preferred to humiliate
further a fallen nation with faint praise and lip-sympathy which
Indians by now have learnt to evaluate at their true worth.
She has pictured the ignoble state of the India that is India.
But what about the India that shall be, the India that is
struggling to rise above all that is? Miss Sharpe has nothing
to report on that topic and so her career of a quarter of a
century, no less than her naive generalisations, would be
counted among the many “‘curiosities’’ of the realm of Is
which are fast passing into the limbo of Was.

K. N.

Book of Ram: The Bible of India: By Mahatma
Tulsidas. Rendered into English by Hari Prasad Shastri.
Published by Luzac & Co., London.

It is an encouraging sign that the classics of mediaeval
India are drawing the attention of the general public.
English translations of Kabir and Mira Bai have already
been published. Now the adaptation of the Rama-carita-
mdnasa, the grand Hindi Epic of Tulsidas (a contemporary
of Akbar and Jehangir) is presented by Pandit Hari Prasad
Shastri. He has tried to perform his task with devotion, but
he lacks the literary and historical sense and thus his prose
résumé appears rather prosaic, specially because the original
poem of Tulsidas is surcharged with poetic grace and literary
210 NOTICES OF BOOKS

qualities. The miracle elements have been exaggerated, and
what the author has missed is the simple beauty of the
original poem which has captivated the heart of millions of
souls down to this day. The Introduction from the pen
of Lotus Dudley, although uncritical, is written with sym-
pathy. Legends and miracles about Tulsidis may attract
only a few and alienate many sober readers. The trans-
literations of Indian names are far from being satisfactory.
But the little book will, we hope, rouse sufficient interest to
permit another issue which should contain more of the
dramatic and poetic passages and also a good and scholarly
Introduction on the life and works of Tulsidas, who was a
real pioneer of Indian Vernacular literature.

K, N.
Dr. E.. E. OBeERMILLER

J.G.LS., July, 1936.
OBITUARY NOTICE *
Dr. E. E. Obermiller

Dr. E. E. Obermiller (according to the Russian manner
of addressing everybody by his Christian name and the name
of his father—Evgenii Evgeniewich, i.e., Eugen son of
Eugen) was born in St. Petersberg (now Leningrad) on the
29th October 1901. In his earliest youth his extraordinary
gifts, especially his never-failing memory and great musical
capacities, attracted general attention. He received a good
education in his family home where great care was bestowed
on teaching languages and music. When he entered the
Government School he already possessed an almost perfect
knowledge of French, German and English. His parents
prepared him for a musical career, they had every reason. to
expect that he would be a celebrated composer and _per-
former. But in the year 1918 when he was already a
University student, a constitutional illness appeared and that
obliged the parents to alter their plans. This illness ‘Serin-
gomuelia’ was hereditary in the Obermiller family, it was
lameness progressive and incurable. The mother of E. E.
died of it at the age of 30. As his father died before her
the young student Obermiller was left an invalid orphan to
the care of two aunts Mrs. Olga Obermiller and Mrs.
Elizabeth Schwede. These two devoted ladies did all they
could for the life of their dear nephew under the very difficult
conditions from which the country suffered during the great
war and the revolutions which followed. It was at this junc-
ture that he began at the University to attend my lectures
en Indology and Sanskrit Grammar. He very quickly
mastered all the difficulties of Sanskrit Grammar, owing to
his quite extraordinary memory he also very successfully
went through all other courses of Sanskrit literature which |
conducted at that time in the University of Leningrad.
When we began the study of Panini on the basis of

® By courtesy of the Indian Historical Quarterly, Vol. XII, No. 2,
Calcutta.

10
212 OBITUARY NOTICE

Siddhanta-Kaumudi he was profoundly impressed by, and

full of admiration for, the greatest Indian linguist, he knew by

heart almost every sitra and cherished for some time a

scheme of writing the grammar of the Russian language

according to the grammatical sifra-method of Panini.

After that we studied with him Alamkara Sastra on the basis

of Alamkdara-sarvasva and the Dhvanyaloka when the young

student became thoroughly versed in the Sastra style. |
initiated him into Indian philosophy. This is the usual series
of courses in Sanskrit which are followed in the Leningrad

University. After having acquired a good basig in Sanskrit

it became a quite easy task to acquire the knowledge of

Tibetan and Mongolian tongues, since the ideas expressed

in the respective literatures are thoroughly Indian, the

grammar and vocabulary offered—for a man so gifted as
was Obermiller—no difficulty at all. After having taken his

University degree of Ph.D., Obermiller was engaged by the

Academy of Sciences of Leningrad as an under-secretary to

the Redactor of the Bibliotheca Buddhica where he at once

began to work also as an independent scientific producer.

His first works were two Indices verborum Tibetan-Sanskrit

and Sanskrit-Tibetan of the celebrated work on Logic by

Dharmakirti, the Nydya-bindu. They were executed with

the greatest care and thoroughness in every detail; the scien-

tific activity of Obermiller extends only over 8 years, from

1927 to 1935. During these eight years he has produced

quite enough to fill up a long and successive life entirely

devoted to science. Here is a list of his main works—

1. Sanskrit and Tibetan Index Verborum to Nydyabindu,

Nydyabindu Tika, edited; Bibliotheca Buddhica,
Leningrad, 1927.

2. Tibetan and Sanskrit Indian Verborum to the same
work, Leningrad, 1928.

3. Abhisamaydlamkdra, Sanskrit text and Tibetan transla-
tion, jointly edited with Prof. Th. Stcherbatsky, Biblio-
theca Buddhica, Leningrad, 1929.

4. Bu-ston’s History of Buddhism, Part I, in the Materialien
zur Kunde des Buddhismus, Heidelberg, 1931.
I].

12.

13.

19.

OBITUARY NOTICE 213

The Sublime Science of the Great Vehicle to Salvation,
a translation of Uttaratantra of Bodhisattva Maitreya with
the commentary of Asanga, Acta Orientalia, Vol. IX,
1931.

The Doctrine of Prajfidg Pdaramité, as exposed in the
Abhisamayalamkara of Maitreya, Acta Orientalia, Vol.
XI, 1932-33.

Bu-ston’s History of Buddhism, I], Materialien zur Kunde
des Buddhismus, Heidelberg, 1932.

The Account of Buddha’s Nirvana and the first Councils
according to the Vinayaksgudraka, Indian Historical
Quarterly, Vol. V, III.

A Study of Twenty Aspects of Siinyata, Indian Historical
Quarterly, vol. IX, 1933.

Analysis of the Abhisamaydlamkdra, Fasciculus |,
Calcutta Oriental Series, 24.

Nirvana according to Tibetan Tradition, Indian Histori-
cal Quarterly, 1934.

On the meaning of the term ‘Sdanyatd’, Journal of the
Greater India Society, July, 1934.

A review of the Madhyantavibhagasatrabhdsya-tikd,
Indian Historical Quarterly, December, 1933.
Bhavanad-karma as an historical document. Calcutta,
1935.

Bu-ston’s History of Buddhism and the Majijuéri-mila-
tantra, JRAS., London, 1935.

A review of Goddard's Principle and Practice of
Mahayana Buddhism, 1935. OLZ., No. 15.

A review of Winternitz’s A History of Indian Literature,
Vol. Il, Orientalische Literatur Zeitung, Leipzig, 1935.
Sphutartha-A bhidharmakogavyakhya edited by Prof. U.
Wogihara and Prof. Th. Stcherbatsky and carried
through the press by E. E. Obermiller, Bibliotheca
Buddhice, XXI, 193].

Additional Indices to the Doctrine of Prajfia Paramita
as exposed in the Abhisamayalamkara of Maitreya, Acta

Orientalia, Vol. XI. 1933.
TH. STCHERBATSKY
NOTES

Last year the Greater India Society had to mourn the
loss of one of its patrons, the late lamented Raja Reshee
Case Law. The ranks of the Society’s patrons have been
still further thinned by the death, in May 1936, of Sir
Rajendra Nath Mookerjee. The Society owes a deep debt
of gratitude to both these departed souls whose generosity
helped it to overcome the initial struggles of its existence.

The Greater India Society: has profited, as in former
years, by the generous donations of the National Council of
Education, Bengal, and of Dr. Narendra Nath Law amount-
ing to Rs. 500/- and Rs. 100/- respectively.

The Greater India Society has entrusted Mr. Himansu
Bhusan Sarkar, M.A., with the task of bringing out an
authorised English translation of Dr. N. J. Krom’s Hindoe-
Javaansche Geschiedenis. The Society takes this opportu-
nity to convey its sincere thanks to Dr. Krom not only for
authorising the translation, but also for undertaking to add
his own notes to make it quite up-to-date.

The Society hopes at once to take up its announced
publication, a work of Dr. G. Tucci called ‘Travels of
Tibetan Pilgrims in the Swét Valley’, illustrated with plates.

Extracts from the Annual Report of the
Creater India Society (1935-36)

General
With the year 1935-36 the Greater India Society entered
upon the ninth year of its existence. The record of the
Society's activities during this year, though not marked by
any dramatic developments, was, on the whole, one of
steady progress.
ANNUAL REPORT 215

Management

The constitution of the Managing Committee remained
unchanged during the course of the year. The Committee
had, however, to mourn the loss of one of its oldest patrons,
the late lamented Raja Reshee Case Law. As in the pre-
ceding year, the important business of the Committee was
disposed of, as the occasion arose, by circulation among its
members. During the year the Hony. Secretary continued
to act as the editor of the Society's Journal in addition to
his usual duties. The composition of the Journal Committee
remained the same as at the beginning of the year and it
exercised its functions according to the occasion.

Office

As in the preceding year, the office establishment was
kept at the minimum strength. There was, however,
a slight increase in the cost, as the clerk Babu Gaurikinkar
Banerjee, received an increment of Rs. 40/- only
as his annual honorarium. The Committee owes a debt
of sincere thanks to Mr. P. K. Sen, Chartered Accountant
and a Calcutta University lecturer, for his honorary services
as the auditor of the Society's accounts. The Committee
takes this opportunity to thank Mr. Haridas Banerji of the
Government Commercial Institute for the kind offer of his
services as honorary auditor, which, however, could not be
acted upon as the permission of the Head of the Depart-
ment did not reach the Secretary in time. During the year
it was possible, thanks to the generous help of the Executive
Committee of the Post-Graduate Department of the Calcutta
University and especially of its worthy President, Mr. Syama-
prasad Mookerjee, to transfer the Society's accumulated stock
of books, periodicals, reports, etc., to the Asutosh Building of
the University, where it was kept in a separate almirah,
which also was a gift of the University. The arrangement
and preliminary listing of this collection were taken in hand
by the Hony. Assistant Secretary.
216 ANNUAL REPORT .

Members and Subscribers

The number of members on the Society's rolls on the
31st March, 1936, was the same as in the preceding year.
The number of subscribers to the Society's Journal showed
a slight decrease. Though this loss cannot but be disquiet-
ing, the Committee recalls with gratitude the continued
patronage extended to it in the form of multiple subscriptions
by the Governments of Baroda, Mysore, Travancore and
Gwalior as well as the provincial Government of Assam.
The Committee takes this opportunity to record its deep
sense of sorrow at the death of Dr. E. Obermiller who was
its Honorary member and one of the most active contribu-
tors to its Journal from the very start.

Lectures

Ten public lectures were delivered during the year
under the joint auspices of the Greater India Society and the
National Council of Education, Bengal. The range covered
by these lectures may be judged from the subjoined list of
subjects to which is attached the name of the lecturer in
each case :— ‘Origin of Vedic ritual’ (by Dr. B. K. Ghosh),
‘Some Problems of Indology’ (by Dr. S. K. Chatterjee),
‘Visits to Siam, Cambodia, Java, Bali and Kailas’ (by Swami
Sadananda),—'‘Firdausi and India’ (by Mr. Md. Ishaque),
‘Brhattara Bharata’ (by Mr. D. P. Ghosh). In addition to
the above, a condolence meeting was held with Mr. P.
Chaudhuri in the chair and the Consul-General of France
attending, to mourn the death of Professor Sylvain Lévi of
revered memory. The Committee takes this occasion
to thank the authorities of the National Council of Educa-
tion, Bengal, for meeting, as in former years, the charges at-
tendant on holding the meetings.

Publications

One issue of the Journal (Vol. II, No. 2) appeared during
the year, while the following issue, which was brought out
as the Sylvain Lévi Memorial Number, was unavoidably
ANNUAL REPORT 217

delayed in publication till May, 1936, owing to the necessity
of obtaining papers from Ceylon, Indo-China, Holland,
France and America. During the year Dr. G. Tucci of the
University of Rome offered for publication by the Society
his work called—‘Travels of Tibetan Pilgrims in the Swét
Valley’ and the Society gladly accepted the offer. Unfor-
tunately, the work could not be taken up for publication,
as the author failed to send his revised MS. in time.

During the year the Hony. Secretary arranged to give
effect to the resolution of the Committee requesting Dr. B.
Ch. Chhabra to undertake, on behalf of the Society, an
English translation of Dr. Krom’s Hindoe-Javaansche Geschi-
edenis, But the arrangement fell through owing to the in-
ability of Dr. Chhabra to take up the work. The transla-
tion has since been undertaken at the Committee's instance
by Mr. Himansu Bhusan Sarkar, Dr. Krom having agreed
not only to authorise the work but also to revise the MS.,
when completed, and bring it up-to-date.

Library

The Committee views with satisfaction the success of
the Society in gradually building up a nucleus of up-to-date
publications on Greater India obtained mostly as exchanges
or review-copies for its Journal. Not to speak of exclusively
Indological Magazines, the Society is now on the regular ex-
change list of the following standard periodicals on Greater
India and connected studies:—(i) Djawa, (ii) Bulletin de
l'Ecole Francaise d'Extréme-Orient, (iii) Ostasiatische Zeits-
chrift, (iv) Zapiski, (v) Tijdschrift voor Indische Taal-, Land-,
en Volkenkunde, and (vi) Archaeological Survey of Ceylon
Memoirs. The Society also regularly receives publications
of the following institutions :—Koninklijke Vereeniging
Koloniaal Instituut, Instituut fiir Volkerkunde der Universitat
Wien, Institut des Etude Orientales d’Académie Sciences,
(USSR), Koninklijke Bataviaasch Genootschap van Kunsten
en Wetenschappen. Among individual scholars who have
fovoured the Society with gifts of their publications may be
mentioned Baron A. von Stiel-Holstein, Dr. G. Tucci,
218 ANNUAL REPORT

Dr. A. K. Coomaraswamy, Prof. Louis de la Vallée Poussin,
Dr. M. Winternitz, Prof. K. A. Nilakanta Sastri and Dr. R.
O. Winstedt. A notable acquisition of the Society's collec-
tion during the year was a complete set of ““Djawa”’ kindly
presented by the Java-Instituut at Batavia.

Conclusion

In concluding this brief report of the last year’s working,
the Committee cannot but again express its very sincere
thanks to those friends and well-wishers whose assis-
tance has enabled the Society to win its slight success. Men-
tion has been made in another place of the generous dona-
tions of the National Council of Education, Bengal, and Dr.
Narendranath Law as also of the valued assistance of the
Society’s Hony. auditor for the year, Mr. P. K. Sen. But
the list is far from being exhaustive. To Mr. Ramananda
Chatterjee, Editor of the “‘Modern Review’’, and to Dr.
Narendra Nath Law, Editor of the “Indian Historical Quar-
terly’’, the Society is indebted for free advertisements of its
publications in their well-known magazines. Dr. Law has
laid the Society under an additional obligation by allowing
a substantial discount on the printing charges owed by it to
the Calcutta Oriental Press. The Committee, however, feels
that the Society has not yet emerged out of the struggles of
its infancy. It is perhaps idle to expect that the Society's
dream of possessing a permanent home filled with a repre-
sentative collection of literary works, charts, photographs
etc., relating to Greater India, will be fulfilled even in the
near future. But, as was said in the Annual Report of the
last year, the Society is urgently in need of a reserve fund.
Money is also badly needed for purchase of some
furniture. Above all, recruits are needed not only
for shouldering the growing business of the Society,
but also for improving the standard of its Journal so as to
make India’s part in the elucidation of the culture of Greater
India worthy of its heritage. The Committee appeals to
every lover of Indian culture to rally round its banner and it
earnestly trusts that its appeal will not go in vain.
Publications of Cognate Interest in Other

Journals

Djawa: 16de Jaargang No. 1, 2 en 3, 1936.

Colin McPhee—The Balinese wajang koelit and _ its
music. The author gives here a detailed description
of the famous puppet shadow-plays of Bali. The
stories of these plays are mostly drawn from the
Ramayana or the Mahabharata.

Walter Spies—Bericht tiber den Zustand von Tanz und
Musik in der Négara Gianjar.

The author gives interesting details about the old
dances and music of Négara Gianjar in Bali. Only
this district is said to have preserved in its pristine
purity the ancient dances and music of Bali; but the
author deplores that even here Western influence
has begun to do havoc.

W. F. Stutterheim—Enkele Oudheiden van Bali. (1) The
author discusses here a pillar on the south
coast of Bali bearing an inscription of king Sri
Keéarivarmadeva dated 917 A.D. This inscription is
written partly in Devanagari script and partly in Old-
Javanese script. The most astonishing feature of this
inscription is that the portion in Old-Javanese script
contains Sanskrit words and the portion in Devanagari
script contains Old-Javanese words. The inscription
records an expedition to Moluccas. (2) The second anti-
quity discussed by the author is a large relief found
near Bédoeloe and (3) the third monument is a grotto
near Tabanan.

R. Goris—Enkele Mededeelingen Nopens de Oorkonden
gesteld in het Oud-Balisch.

The author here gives a_ bird's-eye view of the
languages and dialects in which the Old-Balinese records
11
220 PUBLICATIONS OF COGNATE INTEREST IN JOURNALS

are written. The most ancient records are written
in Sanskrit; but from 882 A.D. to 1072 A. D. both
Sanskrit and Old-Balinese are used. Afterwards Old-
Javanese is the only language used, presumably as a
consequence of the marriage of the Balinese ruler
Udayana with a Javanese princess. Javanese remains
the language of court and literature for a long time.
Even Modern “‘high’’ Balinese bears the clear impress of
contact with Old-Javanese.

Journal of the Burma Research Society, Vol. XXVI, pt. | 3

Pe Maung Tin—Buddhism in'‘Inscriptions of Pagan.

Ibid. Pt. Ht.

W.S. Desai—History of the Burmese Misson to India,
October, 1830, to July, 1833.—Based on Indian Office
MS. of Col. Henry Burney, Resident in Burma.
Describes the experiences of two Burmese envoys
who travelled from Ava, via Calcutta, Benares,
Allahabad and Cawnpore, to Agra and back again to

Ava via Patna, Bodh Gaya and Calcutta.

Coylon Journal of Solence (Sec. G, Archaeology, Ethnology etc.),
Vol. ff Pt. 3

S. Paranavitana—Archaeological Summary: Brickwork
[description with drawings of various types of
bricks shown by letters engraved on them to belong
to the early centuries A. D.J—Evolution of the Stipa
[extant specimens show that in Ceylon the earliest
stapas followed the Indian model, consisting of the
harmmiké and above it an umbrella or series of
umbrellas in stone supported by stone-posts; but an
important change took place about the 5th century
A. D. when there was developed above the harmmikda
the cylindrical structure called devatdkotuva which was
evolved from the base of the chatradanda, and above
PUBLICATIONS OF COGNATE INTEREST IN JOURNALS 221

e

the devatd-kofuva the tapering spire which was nothing
but the old chatrdvali with the space between the
umbrellas filled with brickwork]—Stonework [extant
Brahmi inscriptions on pillars show that stone pillars
were in vogue at least as early as_ the beginning
of the Christian era. This supports the statements
in the chronicles and disproves Mr. Hocart’s view
that stone pillars were introduced in Ceylon about the
8th century.]—Sculpture [description, with plates, of a
new type of moon-stone, of a colossal Parinirvana
Buddha of the 9th or 10th century A.D., of an image of
Visnu, which is described as one of the best examples of
Hindu stone image found in Ceylon]—Paintings
{description of three Buddhist cave-paintings ascribed
to the first half of the 12th century]—Hindu Temples
{Mention of a Saiva shrine ascribed to the Pandyan
epoch].

Journal Asiatique, t. CCXXVII, No. 1, Jullet—September, 1935,

Lin LieKouang—Punyodaya (Na-t’i), un propagateur du
Tantrisme en Chine et au Cambodge 2 l’époque de
Hiuan-tsang: Gives a biography of the Indian Buddhist
monk Punyodaya who arrived in China from Middle
India in 655 A.D. with a collection of Sanskrit MSS.
triple the size of that brought back by Hiuan-tsang in
645 A.D. Also analyses Punyodaya’s two surviving
works, viz., the Chinese translation of the sitra of the
octuple mandala otherwise called Simhavyiharaja-
bodhisattva-pariprccha-sitra and the Vimala-jndna-
bodhisattva-pariprcchd. |

Bulletin de i’Ecole Francaise d’ Extreme-Orient,
t. XXXIV, 1934, Fasc. 2
Coral-Rémusat, Goloubew and Qcedés—La date du Td

Kev: Mme. Coral-Rémusat discusses here the probable
dates of the various parts of Ta Kév:—In architecture it
222. =PUBLICATIONS| OF COGNATE INTEREST IN JOURNALS

4

is posterior to Pré Rup and anterior to Baphion. The
colonettes are certainly posterior to Pré Rup and Bantay
Sréi and anterior to the gopura of the royal palace.
The author ccncludes that the Ta Kév could have been
constructed only in the latter part of the [0th or the first part
of the IIth century. M. Goloubew adds some notes on the
details of the plan which go to support the thesis of Mme.
Coral-Rémusat and M. Coedés brings to it additional support
from epigraphical evidence.

Constantin Régamey—Bibliographie Analytique des
Travaux relatifs aux éléments anaryens dans la civilisation
et les langues de I'Inde: The- author modestly says in the
preface that he has confined himself here only to point-
ing out the chief works concerning the relations of the
Mundas and Dravidians with the other races and linguistic
groups of India. Particular attention has been paid
naturally to more recent works. It will be certainly very
useful to every student of Indian history, ethnology.
religion, mythology etc. A classified index has greatly
enhanced the value of the work. .

Philippe Stern—Le Temple-montagne Khmér. Le Culte
du Linga et le Devaraja: The author points out that from
the earliest period to the time when the type of the Khmér
temple was definitely fixed, the temple-mountain was
connected woth the linga. He discusses further the possible
relations between the cult of the linga and that of Devardaja.

ibtd .XXXV, 1935, Fase. 1

H. Parmentier—Comlpément a l’Art khmér primitif: The
author here gives valuable supplements to his renowned
work on primitive khmer art.

Robert Dalet—Dix-huit mois de Recherches archeologi-
gues au Cambodge:: A detailed report of an archaeological
survey of eighteen months in Cambodge.

B. G.
PUBEICATIONS OF COGNATE INTEREST IN JOURNALS = 223
s

Sd

Ostasiatisohe Zeitschrift, 1936, 5. Heft.

Josef Strygowski—Der Amerasiatische kunststrom.

The renowned art-historian gives here a_ short but
brilliant survey of his own and his pupils’ works proving
the existence of an ‘‘Amerasiatic’’ art at a very early period
in Siberia which has influenced the Indo-European art on
the one hand and the Red-Indian art of America on the’
other. Traces of this ‘“Amerasiatic’’ art may be found even
in some traits of Indian art in the opinion of the author.

Helen B. Chapin—A study in Buddhist [conography.

The writer describes here an unusual type of image of
Cintamani-cakra Avalokitesvara from Japan in the Museum

fiir Vélkerkunde in Berlin.

Ibid., 1935, 6. Heft.

Anton Hoenig—Der Stammbaum des Borobudur.

a The author again propounds here his old theory that
the Candi-Borobudur was originally a pyramid of nine
stories with a comparatively small upper platform which
carried not a stiipa but a temple. The present plan replac-
ed the older one when in course of construction it became
necessary to lessen the pressure of the weighing masses on
the hillock. [The highest authorities on the subject, Bosch
and Stutterheim, are however, quite sceptical about this
theory, though the author has found a supporter in
Coomaraswamy. |

B. G.
BOOKS RECEIVED

The Greater India Society acknowledges with thanks the

16.
17.

receipt of the following books, periodicals, reports
pamphlets etc. during the last six months.

Flamen-Brahman: By Georges Dumézil, Paris, 1935.
Indian Historical Quarterly, Vol. XII, No. I, Calcutta,
1936.

Journal of Indian History, Vol. XIV, Pt. 3; Vol. XV,
Pt. I, Madras, 1935.

Annals of the Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute,
Vol. XVII, No. 2, Poona, 1936.

The Buddha-Prabha, Vol. 4, No. 2, Bombay, 1936.

$1 Jaina Siddhanta Bhaskara (The Jaina Antiquary),
Vol. 3, No. 1, Arrah, 1936.

Aanwinsten van het Koninklijk Koloniaal dingiitunt,
No. 8, Amsterdam, 1936.

Tijdschrift voor Indisch Taal-, Land-, en Volkerkunde,
deel LXXVI, afl. 3, Batavia, 1936.

Journal of the Malay Branch RAS, Vol. XIV, Pt. Il,
Singapore, 1936.

Ostasiatische Zeitschrift, N.F., 11 Jahrg., heft 6,
Berlin, 1935.

Bulletin de l'Ecole Francaise d’Extréme-Orient, t.
XXXIV, Fasc. 2, Hanoi, 1935.

Nouvelles Recherches author du Phnom Bakhén;
By Victor Goloubew, Hanoi, 1935.

Annual Report of the Varendra Research Society for
1934-35, Rajshahi, 1936.

The Sitra of the Lord of Healing (Bhaigajyaguru
Vaiduryaprabha Tathagata), Peiping, 1936.

The Decline and Fall of Morals: By Nicholas Murray
Butler, New York, 1936.

Agastyaparwa; By J. Gonda, Utrecht, 1936.
Oudheidkundige Vondsten in Palembang : By, F. M.
Schnitger.
REPRINTS FROM THE J.G.LS. 225

18. Addenda en Corrigenda to above.

19. De Groote Vleermuis van Tjeta (Midden-Java): By F.
M. Schnitger. ;

20. Four cuttings of ‘Deli lourant’: By F.M. Schnitger.

21. Quarterly Journal of the Mythic Society, Vo!. XXVI,
Nos. 3 & 4, Bangalore City, 1936.

22. Djawa, |6de Jaarg., Nos. 1, 2, en 3, Jogjakarta, 1936.

23. The Study of Javanese Literature in India: By C. C.
Berg, Leyden, 1936.

24. Ceylon Journal of Sciengg, (Sec. G), Vol. II, Contents
and Index, Colombo, 1936.

25. The Annamalai University Calendar, 1936-39, Madras,
1963.

REPRINTS FROM THE JOURNAL OF THE
: GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

BHATTACHARYA (VIDHUSEKHARA), A Sanskrit Treatise by a
Tibetan Author, pp. 8.

CHHABRA (BAHADUR CHAND), Identification of Sri Vignuvarman
of the Perak Seal, pp. 5.

Coomaraswamy (A. K.), The Source of, and a Parallel to,
Dionysius on the Beautiful. pp. 7.

GancoLy (O.C.), On some Hindu Relics in Borneo. with 4
plates. pp. 7.

GEIGER (WILHELM), Contributions from the Mahavamsa to our
knowledge of the Mediaeval Culture of Ceylon, pp. 23.
GxHosH (DevaprasabD), Migration of Indian Decorative Moti}s,

pp. 10 with 2 plates.
Do. Sources of the Art of Srivijaya, pp. 7.
GHosH (MANOMOHAN), On the Source of the Old Javanese
Ramayana Kakawin. pp. 5.
Hackin (J.), Archaeological Explorations on the Neck of
Khair Khaneh (near Kabul), pp. 13, with 6 plates.
Majumpar (R. C.), The Sailendra Empire, pp. 17.

Do. The Struggle between the Sailendras and
the Colas. pp. 21.

Do. Decline and Fall of the Sailendra Empire,
pp. 13.

Do. The Malay, pp. II.
226 REPRINTS FROM THE J.G.15S.

Nac (KALIDAS), Sylvain Lévi and the Science of Indology.
pp. 15 with | plate.

OBERMILLER, (E), The term Sanyatad and its different inter-
pretations, pp. 13.

Do. A Sanskrit MS. from Tibet,—Kamala-
Sila’s Bhavana-krama, pp. (1.

Do. A Sanskrit Manual of Tsonkhapist worship,
pp. 3.

ParANAviTaNA, (S.), The Kalinga Dynasty of Ceylon. pp. 8.
PrzyLusk1 (J.), The Sailendravaméa, pp. 12.

Do.. Indian Colonisation in Sumatra, pp. 10.
Do. Greater India and the work of Sylvain Lévi.
pp. 5. °

SARKAR (HIMANSU BHUSAN), An Olld Javanese Inscription from
Penampihan of the Saka year 119], pp. 16.

Do. Ten Old Javanese Copper-plates
Do. Literary and Epigraphic Notes,
from Sidoteka of the Saka year 1245, pp. 28

Do. Literary and Epigraphic Notes.»
pp. 5.

For prices apply to the MANAGER, GREATER INDIA
SOCIETY, 21 Badur Bagan Row, Calcutta.

Printed and Published by $j. J. C. Sarkhel, at the Calcutta Oriental Press,
9, Panchanan Ghose Lane, Calcutta.
