a

| Notices of Books :

Relation. between Indian Be Indonesian Culture iS cS Gangoly)

_ Katrgincar Darra, Alivardi andl bis times. (UL N. Grose)
_ FM. ScHNITGER, The debeleey. Bs Hindoo Sumatra.
Gd. N. Pinehieahs Bae a
Short Notices ty, ae ee
Obituary Notice = se
Select Contents of Oriental Journals : soni
ees Received: Baa

Fru hal "Published by— ee Re NIE tr
THE GREATER INDIA SOCIETY, aes
As igents outside India—

Mess, Luzac & « CO,, es Great Russel Steet, Londen w. c. ae gaa a

JOURNAL y-
OF THE: “i ’
an
GREATER INDIA SOCIETY ;
| EDITED BY :
te gir IN: GHOSHAL ;
Articies = Pace.
The Buddhi. Monastery of Fo J. si ee r !
: Notes on the Historical Geography “of the “Malay Penineild and ae ae
ate Archipelago (K. A. Nilakanta Sastri) Ti: BS
- Recent Advances in Kambuja Studies (B. R. Chatterjee) ; 4B.

‘GREATER INDIA SOCIETY.
. AIMS AND OBJECTS

1. ie organize the study of Indian culture in Greater India [i.e
Serindia, India Minor, Indo-China and Insulindia], as well as
in China, Korea, Japan and other countries of Asia.

Zz; wo arrange for publication of ..the results of researches into the
history of India’s erie! land cultural relations with the outside
world

3. To create an interest in- cate history. of Greater India and connected
problems among the students in the schools, colleges and Univer-

sities of India by instituting a systematic study of those subjects and
_ to take proper steps to stimulate the same.

4. To popularise the knowledge of Greater India by organising
meetings, lantern lectures, exhibitions and conferences.
MEMBERSHIP RULES

ake annual subscription payable by members is Rs. 12/- only.
_ Members are entitled to receive the publications of the pociey at-¥
_ concession rates and copies of the Journal of the Scciety free cf cos
_. For rates of advertisements, etc.

peer, to phe Manager, a
; os GREATER INDIA SOCIETY,
eno Badur Bagan Row,. | e
3 Om Amherst Street, Calcutta’ es

~ GREATER 1 INDIA ‘SOCIETY.

PURODHA

Dr. Rabindranath. Tagore. .
PATRONS

Mae of Pithapuram and Sir B. L. Mitter.
MANAGING COMMITTEE FOR 1945

-prattene Sk P. C. Ray, Kt.
. Hony. Ree ie De EN; Choshal, MLA Ph.D.
, Hony. Joint- Secretary—Dr.. Kalidas. Nag, M.A.D. (at (Paris).

| Other Members of the Commiitee—O.C. Gangoly, Esq.; Prof.
‘ Suniti Kurnar Chatterji, M.A. D: Litt. (Lond.); Dr. Prabodh -
» Chandra Bagchi, M.A: D. Litt. (Paris.}; Dr: Nalinaksha
es M.A. D.Litt. {Lond.)}; ‘Dr. Nezendia Nath Law,
MA: PheD.; ~ Prof. Vidhushekhara Bhattacharya;
hfehara. Nath Waneries: Esq. M.A.; Dr. Nihar Ranjan
- > Ray, MvAYPh.D., -D. Litt. (Léident=
Journal: Sub- Commitiee ~ for 1940—Drs.. U. N. Ghoshal,
coe : Kalidas” ‘Nag, Narendra: ee Law, Nalinaksha Dutt, .
and Suniti Kumar Gatti. . 4

y ie fers

LIEBE: ARY, Be DBLHI.

oa aa 4 3 Sh
Gall Ne.. Kvaebd SL Sresbacthencdascazee ”

».¢: THE JOURNAL

OF THE

GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

Your. VII JANUARY: 1940 No. 1

far ee

The Suddhist Monastery of Fondukistan

By Dr. J. Hackin

The Buddhist monastery of Fondukistan, through its
statues and its mural paintings, furnishes a characteristic
illustration of the techniques of-Central Asia arising from a
laborious adaptation of the very limited local resources to
the exigencies of a complex iconographic programme.
The modellings in unbaked earth mixed with straw crammed
with horse-hair and made firm by the pieces of wood cons-
tituting a veritable skeleton, filled the niches of the wall:
this last was covered with paintings laid on a plaster com-
posed of a mixture of earth and stuffed straw. This substi-
tution of clay statues for sculptures in schist and for orna-
ments in stucco so abundant in the north-west of India and
in the region of Jelalabad in Afghanistan, was already
noticed during the excavations carried out in June 1933 at
Teppé Marendjan on the western part of the hill of elon-
gated form which rises immediately to the east of Kabul.
One of the clay-modellings discovered at Teppé Marendjan'
deserves a very special mention. This statue which was

r See Odette Bruhl, Derniers travaux de la Délégation archeo-
logique francaise en Afghanistan, Revtie des Arts Asiatiques, T. VI,
(1934) pp. 116-119 and Pl. XXXVI. |
Bit be bac eee 3415

Sint Tae epee Ebe een Ha

2 J. HACKIN

entirely painted was found in a niche of the west face of the
monastery which was completely concealed by a supporting
wall; the statue appeared nearly intact, the head alone
having been detached from the trunk because of a slight
falling-off of the vault of the niche. Siddhartha who is the
Bodhisattva here represented, is seated in the oriental
fashion, his hands joined in meditation. The torso, admi-
rably modelled, is of a very Indian suppleness. The face
with eyes half-closed, very elongated, and of very prenounc-
ed ophthalmia, likewise shows a marked Indianisation. The
coiffure was a turban provided with a circular median orna-
ment of large dimensions which we could compare with
those that adorn the coiffure of the Siddhartha of the
Peshawar Museum brought to light at Sahri Bahlol.? The
clay-models of Teppé Marendjan and the sculpture in
schist from Peshawar are very closely related; the ornaments,
the vestments and the coiffures show very slight differences.
The rose-apple tree under which the Bodhisattva meditates
is depicted in the specimen of Sahri Bahlol by a falling-off of
the leaves; at Teppé Marendjan the leaves were partly
painted upon the vault of the niche and partly modelled and
laid on the wall. It is im the rendering of the anatomical
detail that the superiority of the clay-modelling shows itself.
To convince oneself of this, it will be sufficient to compare
the torsos of the two statues: on the one side suppleness
and elegance,® on the other, rigidity and heaviness.
Reverting to Teppé Marendjan, we must observe that a
hiding-place discovered not far from the statue of Bodhi-
sattva Siddhartha contained gold and silver coins of the
third and fourth centuries of the Christian era, namely,
twelve gold coins of the style of Kishan Shah Sassanides,*

2 A. Paice AGB.G., Il, fig. 413 and p. 219.

3 Total height of the statue of Teppé Marendjan: 1m. 22; width
of the shoulders: o m, 57; width ‘of the waist: o m, 27.

4 Ernst Herzfeld, Kushano-Sassanian Coins, Memoirs af the
Archaeological Survey of India, No. 38, pp. 46 & 47.
THE BUDDHIST MONASTERY OF FONDUKISTAN 3

firstly, Varhran II (with Varhran I) 273-275 Ai.D. (1 piece),
secondly, Bage M...(with Varhran 1) 275-276 A.D. (11 pieces),
—and 360 silver pieces (drachmae) in the name of Shapiir II,
310-379 A.D. (338 pieces), Ardashir [], 379-383 A.D. (11
pieces), Shapir III, 383-388 A.D. (I1 pieces). It is not
without interest to note this fact. We shall return to it
again while we shall discuss the question of a find of coins
made at Fondukistan.

At Teppé Marendjan, we find ourselves for the first
time confronted with the general use of a technique very
different from those of which we observed the application
while studying the archaeological sites of ancient Gandhara
and the region of Jelalabad (schist and stucco). It should
be noted that at ancient Kapiéa to the north of Kabul the
sculptures in schist are very near the clay-modellings (exca-
vations at Paitava, 1924, excavations at Shotorak, 1937). In
fact, it is only beyond Begram, towards Fondukistan and
Bamiyan that the techinque of clay-modelling becomes
universal; these two sites have not yielded a single sculpture
in schist.

Fringed by the terreous hills of rounded foldings, the
torrent of Fondukistan comes into the tortuous valley of
Ghorband from the east, almost at the entrance of the
large village of Siyahgird, situated 117 kilometres to the
north-west of Kabul and 128 kilometres to the west of
Bamiyan. From Siyahgird several paths lead towards the
village of Fondukistan which gives its name to the valley
fertilised by the waters of the torrent. On the right bank
of the water-course the most frequented path rises by a
steep ascent without intermediate steps up to a vast ruined
galeh.® This preliminary effort is without any fresh ascent;
having crossed several fields regularly sown with wheat and
barley, the path reaches a zone where the arborial vegeta-
tion becomes quite dense. Mulberry-trees, apricot-trees
and almond-trees give a cool shade in midsummer. The

5 A large fortified building.

4 ]. HACKIN

other paths, while they do not require the initial efforts
of a steep climb, offer the inconvenience of being encum-
bered, as the bed of the torrent is very near, with pebbles
and even with big stones. It is only in the immediate neigh-
bourhood of Fondukistan (nearly 5 kilometres from the
village of Siyahgird) that these paths rising by stages finish
with those to which we have made allusion.

As soon as the visitor, passing along the principal path,
has crossed the steep ascent and the ruins of the galeh, he
perceives in the southern direction a conical hill which seems
to enclose the valley; in fact, it commands the narrow pas-
sage by which the torrent and the path creep their way. In
approaching this hill, one observes that it attaches itself
by a narrow promontory to the group of heights which
from the western boundary of the valley; it is there that
one notices the vestiges of the construction crowning the
summit of this hill. (fig, 1).

No information concerning Fondukistan reached us
before September 1936. I did not know at that time that
Fondukistan had been mentioned as early as 1836 by the
English traveller Charles Masson in a second memoir on the
ancient coins found at Begram (Beghram) in the Kohistan
of Kabul. Here is the passage concerning Fondukistan :°

“In the district of Ghorband, west of the great hill-range, which,
radiating from the Hindu-Kosh or Caucasus, forms the Western boun-

. dary of Koh Daman, we have very many important vestiges of

antiquity, both in the principal valley and in its dependencies, parti-
cularly in one of them named Fondukistan: we have reasons to believe
that coins ate found there in considerable numbers and that there are
some interesting mounds; but as we have not seen this spot, we refrain
from speculating upon its character.”

It was while completing our documentation on Begram
in 1938 that this interesting pasage revealed Fondukistan to

6 Second ‘Memoir on the Ancicht Coins found at Beghram in
the Kobistan of Kabul, By Charles Masson, Journal of the Asiatic
Society of Bengal, Vol. V (1836), p. 6.
.&
Sa

THE BUDDHIST MONASTERY OF FONDUKISTAN 5

us. Our discoveries at Fondukistan show to what extent the
account given by our predecessor was worthy of being
retained.

When in September 1936, we finished at Kabul our
preparations for the expedition which we were to send
towards the archeological sites of the region of Sar-o-Tar
in the Afghan part of ancient Seistan, some fragments of
statuettes, fragile clay-modellings, were brought to the
Museum of Kabul. These objects could not but immediate-
ly attract our attention. They undoubtedly formed a new
acquisition of very great interest. Collected by the Governor
of Siyahgird from the Ghorband, these fragments had been
discovered by the peasants of the village of Fondukistan’
who were roused to activity by the children that had climbed
the hill on the morrow of a heavy rainfall. A crevice cut
through by the sudden afflux of water had brought to light
some of these fragments belonging, as we recognised later,
to the decoration of niche A of the sanctuary. A recon-
naissance carried out on the 25th September (when Messrs.
Carl and Meunié accompanied me) enabled us to recognise
the importance of the site and the interest which a methodi-
cally-conducted excavation would create. The work begun
in May 1937 was conducted by M. J. Carl assisted by M.
Mohammed Aziz Khan, a former pupil of the Ecole des
Beaux-Arts of Kabul. I found occasion several times to
visit the sheds in order to follow the work of excavation
and to study the site along with the numerous objects
brought to light. | | .

The Buddhist monastery of Fondukistan comprises a
sanctuary and its appendages: cells, meeting-halls and out-
houses. M. J. Carl first took up the clearance of the sanctuary
which was a hall on an evidently square plan, apparently
with cylindrical vault and built of unbaked bricks of large
dimensions. The deep niches likewise vaulted with cylin-
drical vault opened inte a great hall of which the centre was

7 M. J. Carl visited Fondukistan on the 16th May 1937.

6 J. HACKIN

occupied by a stiipa of square base. Externally each of
these niches was framed in a simple arcade; these elements
were connected with the others by a horizontal string-course
resisting on pilasters with pseudo-Corinthian capitals which
were distributed on both sides of the entrance of each
niche. The modelled scroll-patterns forming this cincture
of arcades resemble very closely (we shall have occasion to
return to this subject) the modelled decoration of the Caves
I, If and XI of Bamiyan. The carefully executed paintings
covered the vault and the walls of the niche, the figures
being still visible in places: The paintings form only a
small part of the completed decorative programme; the most
marked element is represented by the clay-modellings, large
statues placed at the bettom of the niches, busts fixed
against the wall by means of wooden clowels; a clever poly-
chromy rendered all these elements clearly of a piece with
the painted decoration.

The openings of all these niches were totally blocked
and the rubbish in places formed a veritable mortar which
the pick-axe could not remove; let us add that the vaults of
miches A, F and G had given way. It was owing to this
fact, since the washing away of the rain-water had been very
effective, that the fragments forming a part of decoration
of niche A had been partly extricated. As we have seen,
these objects found their way to the Museum of Kabul where
they were exhibited in September 1936.°

‘The observations made by M, J. Carl, while proceeding
to the clearance of niche A, show that these ‘statues were
fixed against the wall by means of wooden dowels and that
only the upper portion of the body appeared to be placed
in the offset of a small balustrade support. Niche A com-
prised. iconographic details of the same order, the balustrade
being replaced by a drapery (fig. 3). In both cases (niches

8 J. Hackin, Aw sujet de quelques stataes bouddhiques vécem-
ment mises au jour en Afghanistan, Revue des a Asiatiques,

Tome X, fs. 3 PP 3073! & Pl. XLV.
Plate Ik

J.G1IS, 1949

of6zi ‘“STOL
AL old

THE BUDDHIST MONASTERY OF FONDUKISTAN 7

A and B) an anatomical peculiarity attracts the atten-
tion of the observer, namely, a lengthening and a very
marked curvature of the torso, this curvature in arch being
accentuated by the inclination of the head. Of the speci-
mens representing female personages, the measurements
taken show prominently a marked contrast between the waist
and the hips. In conclusion, it should be mentioned that
the feminine costume of Central Asia is also represented
(fig. 2). Although very much damaged, the fragment of
this statuette shows the characteristic details, viz. .» an
adjusted corset closely fitting the torso up to the base of
the breasts which are covered with a light stuff (fig. 2).

Among the fragments brought to light, No. 3 (fig. 3) clearly
bears the impress of Indian influence. It is only distin-
guished from an Indian image by the shorter length of the
arms. This specimen, by its elongated torso, its spare
waist, its very developed hips, shows itself distinctly Indian.
Equally Indian is the necklace of pearls passing between
the two breasts so as to go round the waist. One of the male
figures (fig. 4) wears, tied around the torso, a sort of scarf
resembling the udarabandha of purely Indian statues.’ It
should be noted that the very large and widely opened eyes
have hemmed eye-lashes, the exophthalmia being now and
then accentuated. Occasionally also the eye-brows are
placed very, high, such is the case with a Bodhisattva whose
hair exhibits by its short waves a Hellenistic treatment (fig, 5).

This is the only trace of Hellenistic influence which it has
been given to us to turn up while examining the objects
brought to light in A. The ornaments consist of necklaces,

medallions and curious bracelets (keyiiras) adorning the

upper portion of the arms. These ornaments are provided

with pendants and they very distinctly resemble certain

motifs of ornamentation of Gupta style.

g See F. H. Gravely, and T. N. Ramachandran, Catalogue of the
South Indian Hindu Metal Images in the Madras Government
Museum; New Series, General Section, Vol. I, Pt. 2, p. 20,

8 J. HACKIN

Niche B
Niche B was blocked by rubbish and earth forming

compact blocks transformed by the action of rain-water
into a veritable mortar, upon which the pick-axe had no
effect. We had to renounce the clearance of this niche.

The statues which were fragile modellings confined
in a compact and very firm gangue could not be
extricated.

Niche C

As the rain-water did not penetrate very much into the
interior of this niche, the rubbish was not formed as was the
case with B, into compact blocks unassailable by the pick-
axe. The clearance of niche C, although a very slow pro-
cess, was carried out in a satisfactory manner. The hori-
zontal portion of the decoration of the facade appeared at
first; the double border of the scroll-pattern came out, on
the right, from a small vase placed at the bottom of the
east face of the wall (fig. 6). The small vase placed exactly
at the angle served to balance the borders of the scroll-
pattern of the northern and eastern faces. The upper border-

o*
Plate Vv

40

IG.

JGALS.

ig. U1

i

LG

Eis:

TA 238
ead (a
ct6r ‘s]
roy |

ne eae
ae

THE BUDDHIST MONASTERY OF FONDUKISTAN 9

of the arcade just forms a double carved bracket -(fig,- 7)
resembling what we found in the Caves I, Il and-XI of
Bamiyan (fig..8). This double -bracket was apparently sur-
mounted by.a. small fluted and ribboned vase from ‘which
escaped two sinuous waves; the whole resembling what we
have observed at Bamiyan (fig. 8);!° a fragment: of the left
part of the ribbon is still visible. Between the niches: C
and D the string-course of the coupling-piece was adorned
in the middle with a. human- circular mascaron: encircled: by
leaves resembling those which entered into the composition
of the. scroll-pattern (see niche E). The stalks of the Scroll:
pattern emerge from the: mouth of the mascaron which has
not the bestial aspect of the mascarons, the coupling-pieces
of Caves I,-I] and XI of Bamiyan. -The upper portion “of
the. string-course is adorned with: birds flying towards the
left. The base of the niche was occupied by a seated
Buddha (fig. 9), draped in a monastic mantle covering both
shoulders from which the flames gushed‘ out; water, traversed
by very stylised waves treated in low relief, appeared at the
base. of the pedestal. We find ourselves-therefore in pre-
sence “of a representation of ‘the Buddha’ of the Great
Miracle - (Yamaka-pratiharya); an iconographic theme fre-
quently. fourid-in ancient Kapiga: On each side of the great
Buddha whose head has not been found, two female figures
are seated with inclined heads, they have the waist supported
and the breast covered with a light corseleti~a light scarf
covers the- shoulders (fig. 10). Near the exit of the niche
there were two Buddhas seated in the pose ‘of royal relaxa-
tion; the monastic mantle wound round so as to leave one
shoulder bare; the lower-garment, cutting by its blue colour
across the red of the -monastic’ mantle, was found fixed
against the torso. ‘The monastic mantle with regular creased
folds adheres to the torso whose’ elegant model remains
very clear, The waist is spate, the chest developed, the

10 J. Hackin with the collaboration of J. Carl, onveles recherches
archéologiques Bamiyan, PL XXX «+ - y

2

10 J. HACKIN

upper portion of the body gives an impression of elegance
and of grace full of dignity. This suppleness recalls the
very distinct Gupta and post-Gupta Indian reminiscences in
reaction against the heaviness of the last productions of the
artists of Gandhara and of Kapisa (fig. 11).

On each side of the summit of the vault are distinctly
seen traces of the nimbus and the aureoles and the holes
for fixing the wooden dowels: these last marked the posi-
tions which had been occupied by the figures represented
in bust above a drapery equally fixed against the wall.
These models, which have unhappily been destroyed, were
of the same type as those found in niche E. The standing
figures had likewise occupied the positions marked by their
nimbus and their aureoles, slightly beyond the assistant
Buddhas represented as seated. On the right lateral wall
towards the entrance of the niche at mid-height between the
ground and the vault, there appeared still in place a model-
ling of a sleeping female; the head turned towards the en-
trance of the niche rests on a pile of three flat pillows, a quilt
covers the lower part of the body leaving bare the very re-
rarkable abdomen which is pierced by a hole at the posi-
tion of the navel, the arms rest along the body, the hair is
wavy, the eyes appear closed. Behind this figure and
fixed against the wall is a sort of triangular screen of stylised
flamés. We find ourselves apparently in presence of a re-
presentation of the mother of Jyotiska, the child saved from
fire by the miraculous intervention of Buddha (fig. 12).

_ Of the three Gandharian bas-reliefs representing this
scene and reproduced by M. A. Foucher in his ‘‘Art gréco-
bouddhique du Gandhdra," the third alone could be compar-
ed with modellings of niche C; this fragment shows the child
still half-entangled in the material bosom amidst the flames.
The | child. should be. equally represented at Fondukistan,
and if it has disappeared, the position which it occupied is
still marked by the jouening in me abdomen of the mother.

K. Fouche, 7 A G BG, L eB 338 & fig. 260.
Plate Vil

’ i
F
'
t
H
i
i
i
p
j
if '

ig. 14

E

IGS. 1940

netted et in

aaaitie..

THE BUDDHIST MONASTERY OF FONDUKISTAN 11

In fact, the miracle limits itself to a czesarian operation
carried out in difficult conditions. It should be noted that
both personages represented in bust are standing at the
height of the head of the sleeping female. The paintings
adorning the niche are very much damaged: the dominant
colour was a gouache blue; a reddish brown likewise ap-
pears as well as several touches of green.

NICHE D

The decoration on the facade of niche D has completely
disappeared. Against the wall from the base of the niche
there leaned up a large Bodhisattva seated in the posture
of royal relaxation (lalitadsana) on a pedestal depicting a
fictitious arrangement of horizontally disposed bricks; under
a Bodhi tree (of fictis religiosa variety) the whole upper por-
tion of the body has disappeared (fig. 13), but the head of
the statue has been found among the rubbish which en-
cumbered the entrance of the niche (fig, 14). Of the diadem
nothing more survives than a very small circle adorned with
an egg-shaped decoration, from which the short meshes and
curls of hair escape at regular intervals. The face was
covered with gold-leaves laid on a red background. The
very prominent eye-ball is partly covered by the eyelids
in such a way that the palpebral slit appears very elongated,
the outer angle being characterised by a very pointed form.
The eye-brows, placed very high, present a regular tracing;
the nose very lightly snubbed is large enough; the mouth
small, the lips fleshy; the general effect of the mascaron rela-
tively squat and chubby.’ Reverting to what is left of ‘the
statue of ‘a very delicate model, we perceive the left leg,
of which the naked feet rest on a lotus, the dhoti delicately
envelops the leg of which the elegant curve is visible under
the light stuff which is pleated in sinuous and subtly arrang-
ed folds; the right upraised leg is supported by three super-
imposed — cushions—a branch of the ficus' appears in the

12 J. HACKIN

space comprised between the calf and the haunch. The
statue had for its background an aureole fringed with small
oval ornaments emphasised by a pearl, each of these ele-
ments being surmounted by three pearls. Above the
aureole appear the branches and leaves of the ficus,
several branches of which the traces are still visible on the
wall have detatched themselves. Inclining against the right
corner at the junction of the walls (with reference to the
principal statue) of the niche, there appeared a secondary
seated divinity, the left leg placed under the hanging right
leg (fig. 15). This representation, by the subtleness of its
attitude, the grace and elegance of its form, the affection
of its gesture, recalls the post-Gupta Indian antecedents,
The ornaments form a remarkable group finely wrought
by the goldsmith, of which the principal decorative motif
found in the diadem, the pendentive necklace and the rings
on the arms, is composed of a central cabochon
above and below which appear the ornaments of trefoil
shape; these motifs are fringed by scroll-pattern ornaments
of which the curved parts are slightly dented at their termi-
nal parts; this detail resembles a peculiarity which we shall
have occasion to point out while studying the scroll-patterns
surmounting the entrance of niche E. The necklaces and
bracelets are formed of large pearls. The diadem comprises
an ornamentation of complex character; the motif with
cabochon and _ scroll-pattern is twice repeated there. A
large flower with elongated petals resembling a clematis
is laid on a double crown of flowers with five engraved
petals of rounded form. The second crown placed above
the first encircles a chignon elegantly disposed in the form
of a vertically raised shell. The lower crown rests upon a
rolled headband and slightly brings back ‘the hair from
behind; the diadem appears fixed and supported by a large
ribbon which falls sinuously behind the head. The black
hair with long curls disposed symmetrically sprawls out on
the shoulder; two meshes diverge towards the chest. The
statue, when extricated, was in a state of remarkable fresh-
XI 24I1q oe of6r “gs 7TD'[

THE BUDDHIST MONASTERY OF FONDUKISTAN 13

ness. The tint of extreme whiteness formed a thin pellicle
laid upon a reddish plaster. The very large eyes with
pronounced exophthalmy, with the pupils surrounded with
black, give the whole work a surprising appearance of life.
The highly raised and very divergent eye-brows are also
black; the nose large and slightly flattened. The colours
including the blue bands of the dhoti are placed layer by
layer so as to leave behind only the basic reddish
colour (fig. 16). Another devatd of the same type
as that which we have just described, was placed
in the left wall-corner of the niche. Obviously of the
same height as the devatds there appeared fixed against the
lateral right and left walls of this same niche but partially
destroyed, a few Buddhas seated upon the lotus; on the
right a Buddha of classical type whose torso having for its
background an aureole bordered with stylised Hames was
found broken at the feet of the central Bodhisattva; on the
left an ornamental Buddha (fig. 17), the upper part of whose
body was intact, while the face was mutilated (the restora-
tion was affected at Paris). This Buddha partly concealing
the sanghati wore a sort of hood with three points of blue
colour and adorned with square and round cabochons; these
last are encircled with pearls and provided with a
pendant resembling those which appeared to be attached
to the necklace and the border of the hood. It should be
noted that the hood with three points is not peculiar to
Fondukistan; a fragment of a statuette in stucco, discovered
at Hadda (mission J. Barthoux) exhibits a garment of the
same kind; in this last case the Buddha wears a necklace in
the form of a torque and a second necklace with three
tough plaits lengthened by the heads of makaras (>) confront-
ing each other and holding in their mouths the end of a small
chain with a cabochon. Three crescents adorn the hood,
one in a median position on the chest and the other two
on the shoulders. We have already had occasion to indi-
cate this type of garment while studying the iconography
of the paintings in the rupestral sanctuary of Bamiyan

14 J. HACKIN

(Cave 1), We have here to deal with an ornamented Buddha
appearing at the summit of the vault of the sanctuary.”
The two Buddhas to which we have just alluded, while
passing in review the objects brought to light in niche D,
were placed (as we have had occasion to remark) upon the
lotus. The stalks which support the lotus plunge into a srnall
basin from which two Naga kings rise into view (fig. 18).
The upper part of the body alone emerges; it would seem
that we are confronted with a representation of a purely
anthropomorphic character. Lightly bent, they lean on
their elbows against the upraised border of the basin. The
height and the base of the torso appear to prolong by their
quasi-reptilian subtleness the zoomorphic portion of these
human serpents which is concealed (fig. 19). The physical
type is singular; the elongated face with very convexed
front; it resembles, however, the physical aspect of the
devatés and the Buddhas we have already studied. The
hair arranged into a chignon is represented by short waves.
In the hair there appears a serpent with body marked by
circles. The jewels resemble the ornaments borne by the
devatais. One of the two Naga kings on the left lateral wall
is destroyed. Towards the summit of the vault of the same
niche D there appeared still fixed against the vault
but very much damaged (as the head has been broken), the
statuette of a male personage; the lower part of the body is
uncovered; a waist-band adorned with a row of pearls em-
phasises the lower part of the abdomen. A curious vest-
ment in the form of a breast-plate covers the chest and a
portion of the abdomen (fig. 20).
(To be continued)
[Translated by U. N. Ghoshal]

12 J. Hackin and J. Carl, Nouvelles recherches archéologiques a
Bamiyan, Pl. XV, fig. 19. -

Notes on the Historical Geography of the
Malay Peninsula and Archipelago

By K. A. Nilakanta Sastri

Information relating to the ancient geography and history
of Malayasia comes to us from different sources:

(a) inscriptions, literature and traditions of the

locality;

(b) Indian literature and epigraphy;

(c) notices of classical writers, particularly in Ptolemy’s

geography;
(d) Chinese travel books and animals ; and

(ec) Arabic travellers and geographers.

Sometimes the data drawn from two or more of these
sources corroborate one another admirably, and in these
Lar instances we can be sure of our conclusions from such data.
But more often they are conflicting, and this gives rise to
divergent views of their true import.

Recently Mr. Ir. J. L. Moens has attempted to review
these data primarily from the geographical standpoint in a
comprehensive paper on Crivijaya, Ydva en Katéha in the
Tijdschrift. voor Indische Taal-, Land- en volkenkunde for
1937 (pp. 317-486). I have already examined the subject in
so far as it relates to Kataha,’ and I propose in what follows
to discuss as briefly as possible some of the other questions
arising out of Moens’ paper.

Moens’ introduction to his paper lays stress on the
difficulties and uncertainties of the subject and the wide scope
offered by these for differences of opinion. Authors trans-
cribing foreign proper names adopt one of several methods
open to them; they transcribe the names phonetically using

ae

1 JGIS., July 1938.

ae”

|
16 K. A. NILAKANTA SASTRI

the symbols in their own language which approximate closet
to the original names as they read it or heard it pronounced;
they take the substance of the name and translate it into
their own language; or finally they fasten their attention on
some prominent feature of the land they have in mind and
give it a new name indicating this feature. The Chinese
writers seem to have adopted all these methods, and we often
lack the means of deciding which one has been followed in
any given case. And they often reproduce earlier writers
without revealing their sources. The Arab writers, numerous
though they be, are not as valuable or precise as they appear;
for here again later writers copied the earlier ones, and their
data on the latitudes and longitudes of places, like those
of Ptolemy, do not seem to bear any tangible relation to
facts, and are often no more helpful in deciding the identity
of places than their general descriptions of them. Again it
seems possible that data relating to different places with
similar names or to one and the same place but of differ-
ent epochs sometimes got mixed up in these accounts. And
the need for proceeding with caution is self-evident.

The standpoint from which I have sought to approach
the points made in Moens’ learned paper may be briefly
indicated at the outset. Much hard work has been done on
these questions and certain conclusions have gained more
or less general consent from scholars. While these conclu-
sions are by no means the last word on the subject and we
should be prepared to overthrow them and put others in their
place if proper reasons are shown, we should be prepared
to maintain them as against any others which are not demons-
trably superior to them in validity. I shall illustrate my mean-
ing by a reference to some general principles laid down by
Moens in his introduction (Inleiding).. He says for instance:

“And certainly it is in my opinion not proper to twist posi-
live geographical indications to (support) an idea founded
exclusively on a phonetical identity of names. I recall here
the generally accepted identification of Ché-po (Ho-ling) of
the seventh to ninth century, which according to the Chinese
GEOGRAPHY OF MALAY PENINSULA & ARCHIPELAGO 17

sources must have lain in the Northern Hemisphere, with
our Java (Ché-po) that lies on the other side of the equator.’””
But does this mean anything more than that Mcens prefers
to attach more importance to some geographical data than
to identity of names? And in the very next paragraph he
proceeds to state another principle which rests at least in
part on the very phonetic identity of names, so heavily
discounted earlier. For he says: “If however by a sound
application of the available geographical (and historical)
checks we determine the approximate location of a given
place or district, and also find still in that very neighbourhood
an indigenous name which is a phonetic equivalent—or even
only an approximation—of the given transcription, then, |
think, we may, with good reason, suppose that we have been
on the right track.”’ Here again much must depend on the
‘sound application’ of the available data, historical and
geographical; Moens himself speaks elsewhere of insuper-
able difficulties that crop up in relating the old geographical
data to modern maps;* and there is further the possibility of
data relating to different places of the same name or with
similar names having been mixed up in our sources. In
fact, the very statements of the principles ] have cited in
Moens’ own words, hedged in by so many if-s, go to show
that there can be no simple rules on this subject and that
the scope for differences of view is very wide indeed.

The next step in Moens’ argument relates to what he
considers to be the difficulties peculiar to Indonesia. He
says that the states with which we are concerned were
pirate-states with very limited jurisdiction outside their
chief strongholds, and that till the 18th century when the
European powers began to exercise some steadying influence,
these pirate-states, no sea-powers these, repeatedly changed
the locality of their strongholds without any change in the
names of the states. And he cites some late instances of
this phenomenon. There were pirates in all ages, and just

2 Op. cit. p. 323. ae : 3 ‘Op. cit. 324-5.

18 K. A. NILAKANTA SASTRI

before the establishment of the European domination in the
East, piracy was more rampant than ever; but one may
doubt if this justifies the sweeping inference of Moens that
all Indonesian states were pirate-states throughout the ages.
This at any rate is not the impression | have derived from
the study of the inscriptions and literature bearing on the
Hindu period of Indonesia with which we are primarily con-
cermmed, and | am therefore inclined to view with suspicion
any reasoning based on this large, unproven, and improbable
assumption,

Moens concludes the introduction by avowing his greater
faith in the geographical data from the ancient geographers
and travellers and maps of more recent times than a philo-
logist like Ferrand was inclined to evince, and by stating
that if his new attempt to interpret these data is at all just,
the entire structure of early Malayasian history will have to
be rebuilt from the beginning.

Ul

The location of Stivijaya is the frst problem Moens takes
up for consideration. He points out that the Chinese and
often also the Arab writers think of Malaka as extending
East to West, instead of N.W. to S.E., and Sumatra as lying
parallel to and south of Malaka, and finally of Java as lying
to the east of it, so that the Chinese held it to be S.E. of
Canton, and not S.S.W. as on a modern map. This wrong
alignment must be corrected before any attempt is made to
identify places on modern maps. Again in the days of
sailing ships, the duration of a voyage from one place to
another varied with many factors, the nature of the wind
and the type of ship being most important among them;
hence the distances mentioned in our sources can be accept~
ed only as rough indications.

I-tsing (Record, completed 692 A.D.) and the T’ang
Annals agree in locating Srivijaya to the East, i.c., S.E., in
modern maps, of P’o-lou-che (Baros), and this leads Moens
GEOGRAPHY OF MALAY PENINSULA & ARCHIPELAGO 19

to conclude that the place must have been on or near the
east coast of central Sumatra, near the equator and on the
maritime route between China and India.* But a place
farther to the south on the east coast of Sumatra is certainly
not ruled out by the vague indications of these two Chinese
authorities.

In the itinerary of his journey to India Ltsing gives the

following data:

Ton-kin to: Srivijaya 30 days
Srivijaya to Malayu 15 days
Malayu to Kédah (Kie-tch’a) 15 days
Kédah to Negapatam 30 days

But he says in his Record: ‘Malayu is now Srivijaya."
Moens concludes from this that at the time of I-tsing’s
journey from Canton to India in 671 A.D. Malayu was
midway between Srivijaya and Kédah. And as I-tsing says
also that he changed direction at Malayu for going to Kie-
tch’a (Kédah), the chances are that Srivijaya must be sought
on the east coast of the Malaka about the same latitude as
Kédah and that Malayu must have been somewhere on the
east coast of Sumatra, possibly at Palembang on the estuary
of the Musi. And this location of Malayu in this period gains
support from Krom’s discovery of the name of Malayu at
the end of line 7 of the Kedukan Bukit inscription.®
Palembang was called Malayo by the Javanese in the days of
Albuquerque.*®

The statement in the Record: ‘Malayu is now
Stivijaya’ may thus be understcod literally, and we suppose

4 Moens says that Kazwini (13th century) locates Srivijaya in the
same locality and refers to Pelliot p. 339. Now the passage cited
by Pelliot locating Sribuza at the extremity of the island of Lameri
is from the Adjaib of Buzurg ibn Shahriyar, and I do not think that
the passage lends any clear support to Moens’ view as he himself
allows in the course of his discussion (pp. 331-2):

5 Die Heiligdormen van Palembang: pp. 25-26.

6 TP. vii (1896), p. 120. |

20 K. A. NILAKANTA SASTRI

that as a result of the expedition recorded in the Kedukan
Bukit inscription the king of Srivijaya established himself in
Malayu, in other words, that Palembang became Srivijaya
from that date (683 A.D.), The change of the location of
Srivijaya was then the most important part of the Srivijaya-
Jaya-Siddhayatré recorded in the K. B. inscription dated
683 A.D. And Coedés has recently restated convincingly the
case for locating the historic Srivijaya at Palembang.’

Moens finds confirmation of the original location of
Srivijaya on the east coast of Malaka in the statement of
the New T’ang Annals that at Srivijaya a gnomon of 8 cast
a shadow towards the south of the length of 2’ 5” on the
day of the summer-solstice. And unless we assume a
change of locality in the meantime, this datum could not
be easily reconciled with the statement of I-tsing that during
the two equinoxes almost no shadow was cast at midday in
Srivijaya either by a gnomon or by a man standing erect,
and that the maximum shadows, northward as well as south-
ward, cast in the course of a year are there practically equal.
But neither this statement of [-tsing nor evem that of Yakiit
(cited by, Moens) that Sribuza is an island on the equator
exporting camphor is, [ think, sufficiently precise to enable
us to decide between the usual location of Srivijaya in the
neighbourhood of Palembang and the Kampar basin
proposed for it by Moens.®

Moens, however, says: ‘Srivijaya could first establish
itself in Malayu after it had mastered its capital Palembang
and driven out the ruling family;® and adds: ‘it established
its capital, however, elsewhere in this land Malayu, viz., more
to the north, in the direct neighbourhood of the Strait which

7 Apropos d'une nouvelle theorie sur le. site de Crivijaya, Journal
Malay Br. R.A.S. Dec. 1936.

8 Op. cit. pp. 334-37. See also Takakusu, Record, pp. 143-44, and
z. 3. Moens himself admits. the ‘approximate nature of these
astronomical data in discussing the site of old Kelatan, Ibid., p. 342.

9 Ibid., P. 333:
GEOGRAPHY OF MALAY PENINSULA & ARCHIPELAGO 21

it was to command thereafter.’ Moens seeks support for
this more northerly position of Srivijaya from other sources
besides the astronomical data from Ising. Kia Tan's
statement that Lo-yue and Srivijaya lie on the opposite coasts
of the Malaka Strait implies that the latter must be nearer
the maritime route rounding Malay Peninsula than
Palembang.’® The present morassy condition of the Kampar
delta suggests that about twelve centuries ago the coast must
have lain much farther to the west than now, and the Arab
descriptions (Buzurg, Ibn Said, Abulfeda) of the estuary on
which Serbuza is located tally with this. The capital situat-
ed on the Kampar must have occupied an easily defended
position behind the labyrinth of water routes cut up by
numerous little islands that could accommodate a large fleet
unnoticed by the enemy. And the fertile country of the
Padang highlands behind it must have put it into easy touch
with the ancient pert of Priaman on the opposite coast of
Sumatra facing the Indian Ocean. The excellence of the
site was shown in modern times by the lively trade between
Kampar and Singapore which flourished till the rise of a
new harbour, Emurahaven about 1892. All these factors
render it probable in Moens’ opinion that the ruins of
Muara Takus +0°20° N.L. are the remains of Srivijaya after
its transplantation to Sumatra. There are local traditions
here of an extensive city (the round of which a cat took
three months to cover) under Raja (Sri) vijaya, and of a Datu
Srivijaya living in Kota Baru or near about. All this renders
it highly probable that the capital city of Srivijaya is repre-
sented by the ruins of Muara Takus near the confluence of
Kampar Kanan and Batang Mahat in the heart of Central
Sumatra.

I believe I have fairly summarised all the considerations
urged by Moens in favour of his suggestion regarding the
new location of Srivijaya. | do not think, however, that
any of them or all of them taken together are of sufficient

10 pp. 336-42.

22 K. A. NILAKANTA SASTRI

weight to prevail against those which point to Palembang
and its neighbourhood as the site of Stivijaya. The early
Buddha statue from Bukit Seguntang and the Kedukan
Bukit record seem to leave no room for any further doubt
in this matter. All the other considerations, including the
citations from Arab writers, are indecisive and seem to apply
as much to Palembang, if not better, as to the other site.
The ruins of Muara Takus may indeed in part go back to
the age of Srivijaya, and this is quite intelligible in the light
of the epigraphical evidence pointing to the erection of
similar structures in parts of the Malaka peninsula under the
hegemony of Srivijaya.* In fact, the tradition relating to
Datu Srivijaya indicates, as Krom has observed, not that the
capital city lay here, but only a provincial headquarter ruled
by a datu of Srivijaya and that the place stood in the same
relation to Srivijaya as Bangka and Karang Brahi under the
jurisdiction of similar datus.’? | do not think that a case has
been made out for the view that the transplantation of
Srivijaya comprised two stages: (1) the overpowering of
Palembang, the old capital of Malayu and (2) the establish-
ment of the centre of the new power further north at Muara
Takus.

Moens says elsewhere:#? ‘As a result of the usual
identification of the capital Srivijaya with Palembang, people
were obliged to locate Malayu elsewhere and it was easy to
choose the neighbouring place of Jambi for that purpose.
We must correct this generally accepted opinion to this
extent, viz., that the oldest Malayu comprised Palembang as
well as Jambi, in other words, included the whole of Middle
and South Sumatra.” The conclusion reached here seems
probable now not, however, for the reason assigned by
Moens, but because of the new reading proposed by Krom

ir Cf. Krom H-].G., pp. 132-33.
12 De Heiligdommen, p oy n. 2 and HL]. G., Pp. 116.
#3. Pi 358 oe
ete
=

GEOGRAPHY OF MALAY PENINSULA ‘& ARCHIPELAGO 23

for part of 1. 7 of Kedukan Bukit inscription to which
reference was made above.

The upshot of this discussion may be summed up briefly
thus. Srivijaya dees seem to have changed its situation in
the interval between [-tsing’s first visit (671) and the period
of his literary activity there (685-92); the evidence in favour
of this view is furnished by:

1. the statement of J-tsing that Malayu had become
Srivijaya;
2. the connection between the conquest of Malayu and
the Srivijaya-jaya-siddhaydtraé established by
Krom’s reading of 1. 7 of the Kedukan Bukit
record; and
3. the astronomical data on Srivijaya supplied by the
New T'ang Annals and by I-tsing to the com-
bined significance of which Moens has drawn
pointed attention.
But the site of Palembang, either itself called Malayu at
first or situated in a district with that name, became
Stivijaya after the transfer, and became the seat of the
famous empire passing under that name in history, and the
arguments adduced in support of a more northern site in
Central Sumatra do not seem to bear the test of criticism.
It seems probable that the original site of Srivijaya lay some-
where on the east coast of Malaka. For establishing this
proposition I-tsing’s itineraries seem io be enough. But
Moens has adduced other arguments which are closely bound
up with the location and history of Ché-po (Yava) and must
be considered along with that subject.

il

The discussion of the location of Yava is opened by
Moens with the statement: ‘‘In order not to get entangled
in the many names of lands which are homophonous with our
name Java, we must weigh with care. the geographical con-
tent of the relative sources, as well as their chronological

neha aid

cia a pea

24 K. A. NILAKANTA SASTRI

order.’ This is again one of those general principles which
appear quite sound because in the abstract they state only
the obvious, but which when applied to individual cases,
begin to exhibit wide differences in the hands of different
writers.

“Before all’, continues Moens, “‘we should learn to free
ourselves from current notions which, considered critically,
mostly continue the tradition of more or less intuitive identi-
fications of places. Thus, for instance, it should seem that
names like Yavadvipa of the Ramayana and of the inscrip-
tion of Safijaya of 732 A.D., the second century Jabadiou of
Ptolemy, the third century Tchou-po, the fifth century
Ye-p’o-ti and Cho-p’o, the sixth century Tou-po, the seventh
century Yen-mo-na of Hiven-Tsang, the Ho-ling of |-tsing,
that in the T’ang annals (618-906 A.D.) is also called Cho-p’o,
and lastly the ninth century and later Arabic Zabag or
Zabaj, signify not our Java, as has been supposed till now,
nor even one and the same (is) land. Java is indeed desig-
nated Ché-p’o from the beginning of the tenth century first
in the Song annals (906-1279 A.D.) as will appear from the
geographical position described in the chronicle in detail.
And it is this last Chd-p’o—not the fifth century one, as
Pelliot thought,—that gets in the thirteenth century the
Chinese name which stands phonetically closer to our name
Java, viz., Chao-wa, also written Koua-wa by mistake.””™*
We see here the general trend of Moens’ method and
conclusions; we must follow his detailed demonstrations to
find out how far he has succeeded in his endeavour to re-
place the ‘intuitive’ traditional identifications of places now
generally accepted, | |

And first as regards Ché-p’o before the beginning of the
Song period (tenth century A.D.). The crucial passage here
is the statement in the Annals of the First Song Dynasty
(420-478 A.D.): ‘the kingdom of Ho-lo-tan on the island of

Ché-p’o sent an embassy to present the products of the

14 Op. cit. p- 348. .

GEOGRAPHY OF MALAY PENINSULA & ARCHIPELAGO 25

country’. Again, the Souei annals (589-618 A.D.) state that
the kingdom of Ho-lo-tan lies to the south of Tch’e-tou.™
The method followed by all writers who have dealt with
these texts is to fix the location of one of the places men-
tioned in them and then suggest identifications of the other
places with reference to that one. Pelliot starts by assum-
ing that Ché-p’o is Java; before him Schlegel, and now
Moens, by supposing that Ho-lo-tan is Kelantan. Thus
Pelliot observes :'® ‘“‘If Ché-p’o is Java, it follows from the
text of the Song-chou that Ho-lo-tan was in Java; and
and this contradicts Schlegel who identifies it with Kelantan.”
Moens, on the other hand, says: “If my identification of the
kingdom Ho-lo-tan of the 5th century situated on the island
Ché-p’o with the present-day Kelatan on the east coast of
Malaka, is correct, then must this “‘island Ché-p’o indeed
stand for Malaka!’’ But when Moens proposes this identi-
fication in his chapter on Srivijaya, he says'® that it is only
tentative, and not material to his argument (on Srivijaya).

Again Tch’e-tou (red earth) is identified by Schlegel with
Siam and as a result Ho-lo-tan to the south of it is sought
by him in the Malay peninsula. Pellict doubts the identity
of Siam with Tch’e-tou, but also adds*® that even if this is
granted for the sake of argument, He-lo-tan in Java may
still be described as lying to the south of Tch’e-tou, like
saying: Algeria is to the south of France. Moens holds*®
that Tch’e-tou is the same as the Raktamrttika of a fifth cen-
tury inscription from province Wellesley and locates it in
ancient Patalung near modern Sengora where the red colour
of the soil and red sandstone hillocks have been noticed by
modern travellers. The location of the Raktamrttika of the
inscription is not beyond dispute, and it has been held™ on
good ground that this place must have been in India. We see

15 BEFEO., iv, pp. agt~2. 16 Loc. cit. p, 272.

17 Op. cit. p. 349. 18 Ibid., p. 344.
19 BEFEO., iv, pp. 273 and 284-5.

4

20 Op. cit. p. 344, c& also p. 391 anda 1. 21 A-]G,, p. 76.

26 K. A. NILAKANTA SASTRI

then how uncertain the whole matter is; Ché-p’o=Malaka
(Moens) has no more in its favour than Ché-p’o=Java
(Pelliot).

Now Moens sets forth some new arguments in favour of
his position. First, he seeks to demonstrate that Ché-p’o
and Kie-tch'a represent one and the same town.”* He points
out that Ho-ling is also called Ché-p’o in the New T'ang
Annals, which state at the same time that the kings of
Ho-ling lived in the city of Ché-p’o. After observing that
the name of the country and its capital seem to have changed
places and that chroniclers were still under the influence of
traditional name Yava=Ché-p’o—statements which seem to
have no direct bearing on the argument,—Moens asserts:
““I-tsing, who personally visited the capital and the country,
speaks no more of Ché-p’o in the seventh century, and just
calls the land Ho-ling; he designates the capital by its native
name Kie-tch’a. As place-names Ché-p’o and Kie-tch’a
represent one and the same town.’ He gives no specific
references to I-tsing to support these statements. But I-tsing
speaks more often of the country of Kie-tch’a—pays de Kié-
tch’a,* royaume de Kié-tch’a,** and clearly distinguishes it
from the land of Ho-ling in one context where he writes :°°
‘He left the land of the Three Rivers (China). He set sail at
his ease from Chang-King; he was tossed about on the waves
to the north of Ho-ling. He travelled over all the islands
successively and reached by degrees the isle of Kie-tch’a’.
Kie-tch’a and Ché-po (Ho-ling) cannot therefore be accepted
as alternative names of one and the same city. It is perhaps
worth noting, however, that Moens grants that I-tsing’s
Ho-ling is the same as the Ché-p’o of the older accounts,
and if this be so, the passage I have cited from I-tsing goes
some way towards suggesting the equation of Ché-p’o=
Ho-ling= Java.

22 Op. cit. p. 350.
23 Relig. Eminents, pp. 105, am. 24 Ibid, p. 128.
as Lbid., PP. soree : ie

fe,

<>
GEOGRAPHY OF MALAY PENINSULA & ARCHIPELAGO 27
The boundaries of Ho-ling described in the Old and New

T’ang Annals are then examined by Moens for support for
his position (Ho-ling) Ché-p’o=Malaka. These boundaries
are: P'o-li in the east, T’o-p’o-teng on the west, the sea on
the south, and Tchen-la on the north. Moens*® applies a cor-
rection of 45° to the orientation of these boundaries and under-
stands West for instance to mean north-west. For him there-
fore the sea on the south of Ho-ling is the Strait of Malaka.
All this would be so, if Ho-ling were established to be Malaka
on other grounds. As it is, | am not sure if Moens is not
begging the question. And the arguments he adduces afresh
in his elucidation cf these boundaries are just those very
phonetic resemblances, the pursuit of which Moens con-
demns in his predecessors. There is one difference however;
the earlier writers studied resemblances between names given
by the Chinese authors and known modern names; Moens
improves upon them by postulating earlier forms of native
names from which the Chinese transcriptions might have been
derived. It is thus that he reconstructs the form “Dua
wwatan’, ‘two bridges-land’, to represent the obscure
T’o-p’o-teng; but of the fact that such a name was ever
used, he has no evidence to adduce. He has to rest con-
tent with pointing to the several routes along which small
craft are transported overland across the narrowest part of
the Isthums of Kra, and the advantages to trade from such
transhipment. One point more. The western, i.e., north-
western, neighbour of this land is called Mi-litché, which,
says Moens, “seems to be clearly a transcription of the even
now important port-city of Mergui, well known for its fine
pearls from early times’. I am not a sinologist, and I can
express no opinion on this; but I confess that from Mergui
to Mi-li-tcho, or vice-versa, seems to be a rather large leap.
Lastly, J-tsing locates Ho-ling to the south cf Pan-pan at the
Bay of Bandon, and this points to Malaka being Ho-ling.
The passage of I-tsing’” referred to here reads: ““He (Tan-

26 pp. 350-52. ’ a7 : Rel, Eminents, pp. 77-8.

28 K. A. NILAKANTA SASTRI

juen) embarked and travelled to the south with the hope of
reaching western India. But when he reached the country of
Pou-p’en, to the north of Ho-ling, he fell ill and died.”’ I
am willing to assume with Moens that the place-name trans-
cribed as Pou-p’en by Chavannes is the same as Pan-pan;
but how does it follow from this that Ho-ling is not Java but
Malaka? Moens, it must be noted, admits that Cambodge
(Tchen-la) is to the north of his Ho-lin (Malaka), the inter-
vening sea notwithstanding. Even if Ho-ling were Java,
Pan-pan would still lie to the north of it, as much as Tchen-la.

Kia Tan, a Chinese geographer of the late eighth
century, says that Ho-ling lies to the east of Fo-che
(Srivijaya) at a distance of four or five days’ journey, and
this cuts against Ho-ling being placed in Malaka. But
Moens is so convinced of the correctness of his view that he
proposes to correct the word ‘east’ into ‘west’ in Kia Tan's
text, on the ground that Kia Tan journeying towards Ceylon
must have travelled west and reached Ho-ling en route.
Now, a perusal of Kia Tan’s text would show that he was not
describing an actual journey at all, but only giving sailing
directions, as it were. Here are his words:°® From north
to south it (the Straits of Malaka) is a hundred fi. On its
north coast is the kmgdom of Lo-yue; on the southern coast,
the kingdom of Fo-che. To the east of the kingdom of
Fo-che, going by water for four or five days, we reach the
kingdom of Ho-ling; it is the largest of the isles of the south.
Then, towards the west, coming out of the straits, after three
or four days we reach the kingdom of Ko-ko-seng-tche, situ-
ated on an isle separated from Fo-che at the north-west
angle.’ This passage of Kia Tan upsets the pet notions of
Moens: it discredits directly the alteration in the text propos-
ed by Moens; it shows that the correct directions of the rela-
tive positions of places were known to Kia Tan, and casts
a doubt on Moens’ correction of directions in Chinese ac-
counts; finally it overthrows completely the proposed identi-

28 BEFEO, iv, p. 373.
GEOGRAPHY OF MALAY PENINSULA & ARCHIPELAGO 29
fcetion of Ché-p’o (Ho-ling) with Malaka. Again I-tsing

mentions Ho-ling as a halt from which pilgrims to India
started for Malayu on their journey to India from China; and
Moens argues from this that Ho-ling was either a place on
the east coast of Malaka or Malaka itself.°° But this need not
be so at all, and [-tsing’s statement is quite intelligible if
Ho-ling were Java. And as Krom has pointed out pilgrims
touched at either Ho-ling or Fo-che, i.e., Java or Srivijaya,
before going to Malayu, and there is no instance of both
Ho-ling and Srivijaya being taken on the way.”* which again
is quite intelligible in the face of Kia Tan’s statement dis-
cussed above, that Ho-ling was at a distance of four or five
days’ journey to the east of Fo-che.

IV

Turning them to a discussion of the location of P’o-li said
to lie to the east of Ho-ling, Moens makes a strenuous effort
to find support here for his identification of Ho-ling with
Malaka. P’o-li was also called Ma-li according to the T'ang

annals, and Schlegel thought this was really Ma-li-yeou, i.e.,

Malayu. But as Moens rightly points out I[-tsing mentions
Malayu and P’o-li as separate states. Moens’ own opinion
is that the data regarding P’o-li as we have them are the
result of a confusion on the part of Chinese authors between
two different places of the same name, and yet another place,
and he seeks to unravel the confusion in his own way; but
it is needless for us to follow the details of this part of his
discussion; for there is nothing in it to prevail against the
clear argument based on the ‘perfect phonetic concordance’
(Pelliot)}*! between P’o-li and Bali, and the statements that
Ho-ling is to the east of Fo-che (Kia Tan) and that P’o-li is
to the east of Ho-ling. Moreover, Moens’ conclusion that
P’o-li must be sought to the south-east of Malaka—which is

29 Pp. 353- -30 Die Heligdommen p. 22 (418).
31 . BEFEO, iv, p. 285. a eee

a eee
&

30 K. A. NILAKANTA SASTRI

how he interprets east of Ho-ling—and thus either in
S. Sumatra or still further east in Java does not rest on any
tangible reasons. The Buddhist remains at Palembang or
the Sailendra relics of Java cited by Moens in support of
his position do not bear on this discussicn; for according to
Moens’ there was a Buddhist P’o-li in the sixth century, but
not in the seventh.**

Other arguments urged by Moens are equally incon-
clusive. Take the statements in the Leang annals on P’o-li;
“The kingdom of P’o-li is situated to the south-east of
Canton, on an island in the sea; the distance from Canton is
two months, travelling daily. From east to west the
country is fifty days broad, and from north to south it is
twenty days; there are one hundred and thirty-six villages
in it.”"®> Moens remarks that according to the orientation of
old Chinese maps, S. Sumatra would be south-east of
Canton, and adds: ‘‘Ma-li appears further to be about
twice as long as broad which well agrees with the form of
south and middle Sumatra together.""°* The real truth is
that the data regarding P’o-li or Ma-li are such that no identi-
fication can be proposed to satisfy them all; and it is no
wonder that, as Moens has pointed out himself, scholars
have ranged over all the lands from Borneo to Malabar in
vain to discover this elusive country. Again he argues that
in Souei times, the Chinese had no idea of the general for-
mation of Java, and that even in the T’ang period they might
have believed it to be part of a great continent stretching
right up to Africa. And as P’o-li which had an extent of
many thousand li-s from north to south sent an embassy to
China in 630 A.D., the period of the Tuk Mas inscription
from middle Java, therefore, this seventh century non-
Buddhist P’o-li must have lain in Middle Java. Ma-li, the
Buddhist P’o--li (sixth century) being South Sumatra and P’o-li
Middle Java, neither of the P’o-lis could be Bali.* The many

32.-p. 358: ee a 33 Groenveldt—notes, p. 203.
34 P- 359. yo 35 p. 360.
GEOGRAPHY OF MALAY PENINSULA & ARCHIPELAGO 31

fallacies lurking behind each stage of such an argumentation
will mot escape the reader.

The capital of Middle-Javanese P’o-li is sought by Moens
in the modern district centre of Pati near the northern coast
of Middle Java, but one looks in vain for any tangible reason
for this view. If there was a Middle Javanese P’o-li and
Pati was its capital in the seventh century, then the plausible
geographical considerations by which Moens seeks to show
that it might have been once a good harbour will have some
value as strengthening an intrinsically probable position;**
but neither the height of Gunung Muria nor the silting up of
the Lusi river mouth can by themselves establish the locale
of the kingdom or its capital. And his account of the histori-
cal origin of Middle Javanese P’o-li only shows how strongly
he has prejudged the question on its geographical side, He
accepts the doubtful suggestion that Ma-li is Malayu, and
argues that the dynasty of Malayu went over to Middle Java
when it was driven out about 683 A.D. by the successful
naval expedition of Srivijaya. Perhaps there is nothing im-
possible in this suggestion though so far it lacks anything of
the nature cf positive evidence. But then Moens seems to
forget the non-Buddhist character of Middle-Javanese P’o-li
of the seventh century on which he laid some stress earlier
in his paper,®’ and now treats it as a Buddhist kingdom of
the Sailendras. And his attempt to connect Kaundinya of
the sixth century P’o-li (Leang annals) with Kandara of the
Andhra country** is totally misplaced. Kaundinya is a gotra-
name and the Kandaras who belonged to the Ananda gotra
could not have had anything to do with them. Again,
Moens puts forward a vague suggestion of some connection
between the Kandaras and Kadambas, probably because
Jayaswal’s evidence relating to the Kaundinyas of South India
places them only in Kadamba country, and the Kandaras

36 pp. 363-4. . 37 P. 359.
38 pp. 435-6. me a erg

32 K. A. NILAKANTA SASTRI

were ruling in Andhra territory. Moens says: “Of the
Kandara dynasty alas! little is known besides that they
vuled in about the same territory as the Iksvakus of the
second and third century. These last had their capital in
Nagarjunikonda, the original Sriparvata or Srigaila on the
southern bank of the Krsna, not far from the later mountain
bearing a like name and connected with the Kadambas.”’
lt comes to this. Because the Kandaras ruled the land of
the Iksvakus who had their capital at Sriparvata, and
Sriparvata is the name of another mountain of the Kadambas,
and because the Kaundinyas are known to have been in
Kadamba country, therefore Kandaras were Kaundinyas!
An argument in itself so weak as this gains no strength from
the references made by Moens to the attack of Visnukundins
on the Kandaras about 500 A.D. as furnishing the motive for
the migration of the Kandaras (Kaundinyas) to the
Archipelago, or to the great stone Buddha of Bukit Seguntang
as further proof of this proposition.’ To seek to connect
Borobudur with Srigaila and thus point to this mountain as
the home of the Sailendras is even less plausible. The con-
nection between the Andhra country and the Archipelago
has never been in dispute; but we are not convinced that
Moens’ researches have brought any valid elucidation of
the time and circumstance of this connection.“

39 PP. 436-7.

40 In my paper on Kataba (JGIS., July 1938) 1 have discussed at
some length the considerations brought forward by Moens in favour
of an Andhra-Kalifiga origin of the Sailendras. I may here add that
Moens does not seem to have quite decided between an Andhra and
a Kalifga home for the Sailendras, and secondly between treating
the Middle Javan P’o-li as non-Buddhist kingdom and treating as
the Buddhist Sailendra kingdom displaced from Sumatra and migrat-
ing to Java as a result of Stivijaya’s conquest of Malayu in 683 AD.
Of the presence of Sailendras anywhere before 778 A.D. (Kalasan
inscription) we have in fact. as. yet no evidence whatever.
GEOGRAPHY OF MALAY PENINSULA & ARCHIPELAGO 33

Another kingdom mentioned in the Chinese annals is
Kin-li-pi-che to the south-west of Canton.*? Pelliot is in-
clined to see in this name only a faulty form of Che-li-fo-che,
Moens, on the other hand, corrects the direction from S.W.
to S5.E. and locates the kingdom in the N.E. part of Borneo.**
Again we have Tchou-po mentioned in the third century
which is most probably the same as Tou-po of the Souei
annals. This kingdom is placed in the China sea to the
east of Fu-nan at a distance several tens of days’ sailing.
There were seyeral kings on the island with capitals of
their own. With many reservations, but in almost entire
disregard of the distinct geographical indications, Pelliot
proposed to identify this land with Ché-p’o (Java). Accept-
ing a suggestion of Pelliot that the name Tchou-po had a
guttural ending in its ancient pronunciation, Moens identi-
fies it with Tabouk, the old name. of Kota Batu, the largest
city in Mindanac,** which satisfies the geographical require-
ments very well indeed. These two identifications are valu-
able as definitely extending the area of Hindu colonisation,
and one hopes that these conclusions of Moens will be fur-
ther strengthened by the progress of research. But it will
be seen that these questions have no bearing on the location
of Ché-p’o itself. Yet other identifications incidentally pro-
posed by Moens, but having no direct bearing on the question
of Ché-p’o are the following:

Lo-t’cha—either Moluccas or better, the island group
between Celebes and New Guinea, Mindanao
and probably north Celebes included.“

Kin-fo, same as Kin-li-fo-che (cf. Na-sien from Nagasena),
and therefore, as noted already on the N.W.
coast of Borneo.**

Kingdom of Women (Strirajya) is Celebes.**

41 BEFEO, iv. pp. 345. iar : re 42 p. 365.

43 pp. 365-8. ee. 44 Pp. 371
45 P. 373 Pete Hee Caatect

)

34 K, A. NILAKANTA SASTRI

K’ouen-lcuen means the islands to the east of the Celebes,
the eastern part of the Archipelago; the land
where, as I-tsing notes, the Clepsydra was in
use as also the Sanskrit siitras and the rules
of grammar in the seventh century A.D."

VI

Next Moens sets out to establish the identity of the
capital of Ho-ling (Ché-p’ o) itself called Ché-p’o in the T'ang
annals, with modern Kedah or some place in its neighbour-
hood. His first, and perhaps the strongest argument, in
favour of this identification is the statement in the T’ang
annals relating to the town of Ché-p’o, viz.: ‘“When at the
summer-solstice a gnomon is erected of eight fect high,
the shadow (at noon) falls on the south side and is two feet
four inches long.’’** This implies certainly a loca-
lity somewhere between 6° and 6° 30’ N.L., which must lie
on the eastern or western coast of Malaka. ‘If in I-tsing’s
time Kié-tch’a (Kédah) was the capital and might thus be
equated to Ché-p’o, the astronomical datum relating to which
has been given above, then the geographical location at 6°
to 6° 30’ N.L. should fit in very well and it would also be
established that Ché-p’o lay on the west coast of Malaka.’’
But note the ‘if on which the argument rests: there is no
evidence to show that Kié-tch’a was the capital of Ho-ling
in L-tsing’s time. Nay more, the references of I-tsing to these
two places indicate clearly that they had no connection with
each other and were places lying rather far apart. What he
says of the pilgrim Fa-tchen is perhaps worth citing again in
Chavannes’ words: ‘il sortit du pays des Trois flueves—Il
hissa la voile au large de Chang-king;—il fut ballotté sur les
fots au nord de Ho-ling— parcourut successivement toutes
les iles et arriva petit A petit ’a celle de Kié-tch’a.’®’ No
wonder Pelliot felt that the astronomical datum of the T’ang

47 PP. 374-5. 48 Notes, p. 139.
49 Pp 376 = 58 eS Eminents, PP, 157-8. :

ba ae

y
GEOGRAPHY OF MALAY PENINSULA & ARCHIPELAGO 35

annals regarding the capital of Ho-ling was difficult to re-
concile with the other data we possess regarding it, and sug-
gested that we must assume some mistake to have crept into
ihe astronomical datum.”

The other arguments adduced by Moens in favour of
Kedah being identified with Ché-p’o are much less decisive.
He takes up. the account of a journey from Mi-t’chen to
Ché-p’o translated by Pelliot from Sin Pang chou, and secks
to find support in this account for his position. Though
Moens does not accept Pelliot’s identifications of Mi-tch’en
with Irawadi delta or of Ché-p’o with Java, he agrees with
him that the general direction of the journey was towards
the south. This passage is of sufficient interest for us to
reproduce it here before reviewing its discussion by Moens.
I translate from Pelliot.

“Fyom Mi-tch’en we reach K’ouen-lang, and here is
the tribe of the Little Kouen-louen; the king is called
Mang-si-yue; the customs are the same as at Mi-tch’en.
From K’ouen-lang, one goes to Lou-yu, where lies the
kingdom of the king of the Great K’ouen-louen. The
king is called Sseu-li-po-p’o-nan-to-chau-na (Sribhava-
nandegana?). The plain is more extensive than that at
Mi-tch’en. Travelling for half a day from the place
where the little king of the K’ouen-louen lives (sic), we
reach the bounds of Mo-ti-p’o (Martaban?). Going by
sea for five months (‘months’ is doubtless an error for
‘days’), we reach the kingdom of Fo-tai, and here is
the branch of a stream which flows for-360 li. The king
is called Sseu-li-p'i-li-jouei. The country produces many
rare perfumes. To the north, there is an emporium
which is the rendezvous of merchantmen from divers
kingdoms. If we cross the sea, we reach Ché-p’o (Java).
Travelling for fifteen days, you pass two large mountains,
one of them called Tcheng-mi and the other . Ché-t's.

51 BEFEO., iv, pp. 293-5- . a ae

36 K. A. NILAKANTA SASTRI

There is a kingdom the king of which is called Sseu-li-
moho-lo-ché (Sri Maharaja). The customs are the same
as at Fo-tai. Cross the valley of To-jong-pou-lo
(Taujong-pura>) and you reach Ché-p’o (Java); then,
after a journey of eight days, you reach the kingdom of
P’o-houei-kia-lou. The country is warm; at the cross
roads and on the roads they have planted cocoanut and
areca palms; if you raise your head, you would not see
the sun. At the residence of the king, the tiles are of
gold, the kitchens being covered with tiles of eilver.
Fragrant wood is burnt here. The halls are decorated
with shining pearls. There are two tanks with golden
banks; the cars of boats are covered gold and gems.’’™
The emendations that Moens proposes to this itinerary
seem to me to be based on a preconceived scheme of identi-
fications, particularly on his own views regarding Ché-p’o.
The very first observation he makes on this text is enough
to show this. He says that the name Ché-po where it first
occurs in the above extract is clearly a mistake (Klaarblijkelijk
een verschriving), for both the kingdom of Ché-p’o and its
capital Chd-p’o are reached later on in the same narrative
after a further journey of two weeks southwards. He sug-
gests that it is most probable that a return to the continental
coast, the point from which the sea-voyage to Fo-tai began,
_viz., Mo-ti-po, is meant; the journey to Fo-tai and the empo-
rium in the north of Sumatra being no more than an excursion
which took the traveller out of the main line of his route.*4
But read the passage again, and it becomes clear that the
first mention of Ché-po is no more than a preliminary indica-
tion of the end of the voyage from Fo-tai, the details of
which follow in the. next succeeding sentences. There
seems to be no warrant whatsoever for supposing a return to
Mo-ti-po, a postulate which in turn leads Moens to suggest
_ further : (I) that Mo-ti-po was not Martaban as Pelliot holds,
but some place in the neighbourhood. of Ta-kua-pa,—for it

53 BEFEO, iv, pp. 223-4. E 54 pp. 378 and 382.
Ci,

gs =

GEOGRAPHY OF MALAY PENINSULA & ARCHIPELAGO 37

sounds manifestly absurd to suggest that a person went back
from N. Sumatra (Fo-tai) to Martaban on his way to Malaka
(or Java); and (2) that the half-day’s sailing from Lou-yu to
Mo-ti-po is really a mistake for half-a-month’s sailing—a
suggestion for which support is found in Pelliot’s emendation
of month into day in another context in the same extract.*®

Next, accepting Pelliot’s identification of P’o-houei-Kia-
sseu with P’o-lou-Kia-sseu to which the kings of Ho-ling
migrated from a more western capital, Moens makes two
suggestions: (1) that the movement from west to east must
really be from north to south, a correction necessitated
according to him by the Chinese orientation of Malaka and
(2) Baruas on Malaka’s west coast furnishes an acceptable
phonetic parallel to P’o-lou-kia-sseu, adding that Baruas
must have sounded like the famous Bharukaccha and have
been transcribed similarly. Both these suggestions appear
to me to be of doubtful validity, and the appeal to local
tradition and the silting of the mouths of the mighty Perak
rivey to explain the ancient importance as a harbour of what
is now an inland village does not bring much strength to an
intrinsically weak case.*°

Moens continues his argument in these words: ‘From
the foregoing it is clear, seeing that both Takuapa or Mo-ti-
po and Baruas are places on the west coast, the whole
journey via., Ché-p’o is made along the coast,®” in other
words, that the capital Ché-p’o must have lain on Malaka’s
west coast, and this gives the answer also to the question
stated earlier of the situation of (the kingdom of) Ché-p'o.”’
I confess my inability to follow this statement. The first
part of it proves nothing; a journey from Burma to Ché-p’o,
whether Ché-p’o be Java or Malaka, must be made along

55 pp. 377°. 56 pp. 382-4.

57 In a note Moens explains that a crossing from Takuapa frst
to the east coast and voyage from there back to Baruas on the west
coast would have involved a much longer jonmney (than one of 8

days) |

3
{
4
i
4
i
i
t
y

SEBO Tn CoE ea BEF

38 K. A. NILAKANTA SASTRI

the west coast of Malaka; you could say that the whole
journey must have been along that coast only by assuming
that Ché-p’o is not Java, but Malaka, which is just what
Moens does; and that after correcting the first Ché-po in the
T'ang annals account of the journey to Mo-ti-p’o! After
this he finds the capital Ché-p’o in Kédah relying to some
extent on I-tsing’s statements regarding Kie-tch’a and for
the rest on the astronomical datum, both already discussed.

Some other considerations are also urged by Moens in
support of the Kédah site for the capital of Ché-p’o. They
are: (1) The valley of To-jong-pou-lo which must be
crossed to reach Ché-p’o according to the T’ang annals may
be found in the valley of the Sai Buri (the Siamese name of
the Kédah river), Sai Buri (Siamese) being an acceptable
{aanvaardbaar) translation of the Malay Tanjongpura. (2) Of
the two large mountains mentioned earlier in the journey,
Tcheng-mi and Cho-ti, the second name is recognised by
Moens in Bukit (Putri) Yatee to the north of Kédah.
(3) Lastly, the district of Lang-pi-ya where the king of Che-
po frequently went according to the New T’ang annals, to
look at the sea, may be recognised in the land of the Rambai
rising in the hills to the east of Kédah, and Rambai, says
Moens, ‘is a passable phonetic equivalent of Lang-pi-ya.’
All these agreements between modern names in this loca-
lity and those recorded by the Chinese centuries ago seem
to be more than merely accidental (meer dan toevallig
schint). We agree, though in a different sense from that of
Moens.

Vil

The oldest Ché-p’o is, according to Moens, identical
with Fa-hien’s Ye-p’o-ti, a correct transcription of Yava-
dvipa. The usual identification. of Yavadvipa with Java
rests on a current misinterpretation of the Canggal inscrip-
tion of Safijaya of S. 654 (A.D. 732). Of this inscription

Moens says: ‘In it Yavadvipa is mentioned not as though
GEOGRAPHY OF MALAY PENINSULA & ARCHIPELAGC 49

Safijaya was there when he founded the linga-temple on the
Wukir and set up the inscription in commemoration of the
fact, but as the place where his family played a part before
his migration to Java.** He lays stress on the expression
asid-dviparam of stanza 7, and says that it refers to Yava-
dvipa of old (wan weleer), the same as is found mentioned in
the Ramayana. He continues: “There (in Ché-p’o) was
(in the 7th century) the miraculous temple of Sambhu. In
fact, that Siva temple is not the linga-temple of the Wukir,
and Krom wondered if it was! It stood however not else-
where in Java as this scholar thought, but on YAvadvipa.
The eighth and ninth strophe continue that it was on that
boasted island Yava that Sannaha reigned and died.
There was it too that Safijaya followed him (st. 10)
and not on Java. There was it (st. 12) that ‘people slept on
the royal road without fear of robbers or other danger.’
The safety there was (naturally) so great as at Ché-p'o,
when in 674 A.D. Queen Sima (according to the New T’ang
Annals) reigned and where ‘even things dropped on the
road were not taken up’.’”®°

The last remark about Ché-p’o is nothing to the point.
It cannot settle the question whether Malaka or Java is the
original Ché-p’o (Yavadvipa), and it will apply to which-
ever land we take to be this. If anything, the similarity
between the twelfth verse of the inscription found in Java
and the Chinese account of Sima’s reign will raise a presump-
tion that both refer to the island, and no other place, and
this is the usual view Moens seeks to demolish.

The main question, however, is whether Moens’
contention that the “Yavadvipa of old’ was some land other
than that of the linga-temple of Wukir has any substance in
it. I think it has none. The past tense form of Gsit (in
verse 7) on which Moens lays so much stress has always
attracted the attention of scholars; but Moen himself ignores
the present tense forms of pati applied to Sannaha in verse

BB op 8h ae pga ep 9828

= RE ARE ag tastings ee Ramee Roe aay gh oan aay giao ong noo T
ee eee oN ae ee aes an ae Bea és

jo K. A, NILAKANTA SASTRI

8, bhramati to the world on the occasion of his death in
verse 9, udbhavati and $dsti to Safijaya himself in verses 10
and [f.

Why the poet preferred the form dsit when asti would
have served his purpose in every way, Kern said he did not
know;°° and we are in no better position. But of the migra-
tion of Safijaya or of his father, or of the transfer of their
power from one centre to another, there is not a word in
the inscription. And the history which Moens invents for
supporting this hypothesis has no support outside his own
imagination. He suggests that the elliptical passage
tadamarai...dinoparjitam (verse 7) contains a  euphe-
mistic reference to Safijaya being dispossessed of his original
territery; he also suggests that the account of Safijaya’s
exploits in the Carita Parahyangan should be taken to mean
that “Safijaya undertook his campaigns from Ché-p’o and
when in the end he had the worst of it, he fled to Java’ ;"
neither of these suggestions can be accepted, and in the
Carita Parahyangan the career of Safijaya is marked by
striking victories everywhere and Srivijaya suffers defeat at
his hands, and not the other way round as Moens wants us
to suppose. Further, the, Carita starts Safijaya on his con-
quering career from Galoch just as it makes him return to
the same place at the end of his campaigns.

Analysing Fa-hien’s account of | his ill-starred journey
from Ceylon to China, Moens argues that he might have
touched on the west coast of Malaka, crossed over to the
east coast by one of the land routes across the isthmus
commonly used at the time, and sailed again from the cast
coast of the peninsula. He admits that no positive evidence
emerges from Fa-hien’s detailed account to show that
Ye-p’o-ti represents Malaka, but, he adds, ‘certainly there
is no reason to infer with any greater probability that he

6o VG. vil, p. 122, 2. 2. © a . : 7 = . 61 p. 388.

q

GEOGRAPHY OF MALAY PENINSULA & ARCHIPELAGO 41

travelled throughout Java."** That is a fair statement of the

case, and we are content to leave it thus, only pointing out
that other students of Fa-hien’s travels, witness the map
in Giles’ Travels of Fa-Hsien, have understood Fa-hien’s
account to mean an all sea route broken by a five months’
sojourn at Java.

It is unnecessary to discuss here the, location of the fifth
century Kelatan (Ho-lo-tan) and Tch’e-t’ou of the sixth
century from which Moens seeks support for Yavadvipa
being considered the same as Ché-p’o and Malaka; these
matters have been dealt with earlier. But one statement of
Moens connected with his plausible suggestion that the
usual route to China from India lay across the neck of the
Malay peninsula deserves some attention. He says: ‘‘Pos-
sibly Fa-Hien passed via. Ligor and Gunavarman via.
Kédah; the first came across few men of the faith
(hinayGnists) and many heretical Brahamans,** the second
travelled by a purely Buddhist town, a contrast not to be
expected to have come about in a short span of ten years,
if the descriptions of the two monks referred to one and
the same place.’’ This apparently strong argument totally
ignores the fact that all the accounts we have of Gunavarman
ascribe to him the credit of converting to Buddhism the land
of his sojourn before his departure from it for China,
Moens’ geography seems to exert a rather powerful influence
on his history.

It is needless to follow Moens’ speculations on the
identity of Ptolemy’s Iabadiou with Malaka, and of his
Argyré with Ligor, for they rest primarily on the assumption
that Yavadvipa is Malaka (Ye-p'o-ti). The mention of gold
among the products of this land by Ptolemy, the Ramayana
and other sources is taken to point to Sumatra or Malaka,
but not Java; as Krom has pointed out,” this argument is

63 p. 391.
64 Most unwarrantably as it seems to me Moens takes this ex-

ptession to include Parsis and Saivites = (P. eS
65 H-].G., pp. oe ar:

6

42 K. A. NILAKANTA SASTRI

not so formidable as it looks, for in the Canggal inscription
found in Java the island is said to be rich in gold, so that,
rightly or wrongly, Java had this reputation; again the
Yavadvipa would likewise be unaccountable, for yava does
not grow either in Sumatra or in Java.

|
'

Recent Advances in Karnbuja Studies
By B. R. Chatterjee
[Concluded from JGIS., VI, 2]

After the reign of Jayavarman III (854-877) the son and
successor of Jayavarman II, a new dynasty rose to power.
The founder of this dynasty, Indravarman (877-889) was
only distantly related to Jayavarman II through his wife.
The most illustrious sovereign of this dynasty is Yagovarman
(889-910), the son and successor of Indravarman, who has
celebrated his name in many inscriptions and in his new
capital—Yaéodharapura, the famous Angkor Thom (Nagara
Dhama). The most noteworthy of his inscriptions are
digraphic, i.e., they give the same text in two scripts,
South Indian (Pallava—the usual script of Cambodian
epigraphy) and North Indian (somewhat akin to Bengali).
These inscriptions show an intimate knowledge cf Sanskrit
literature. In the inscription of the High Priests of Deva
Raja we find that Yagovarman constructed the Central
Mount as the shrine of that tutelary deity of the realm.
Till recently the Central Mount (called central because it
was in the centre of the city) was supposed to be the great
tower of the Bayon, the great temple which dominates
Angkor Thom today, about which scholars gave their
opinion that it was commenced as a Buddhist shrine by
Jayavarman I] and finished as a Siva temple by
Yaégovarman. This Central Mount has now been identified
by M. Goloubew with the Siva temple crowning the wooded
hill Phnom Bakhen near the southern gate of the present
Angkor Thom. This identification was based on the fact
that Phnom Bakhen marks the exact centre of a rectangle
covering an area of 16 kilometres and bounded on the west
and north by broad ditches which have now been turned
into rice fields, while the eastern side follows a line parallel
with the Siem-reap river which has been deflected from its
natural course to form. a sort. of moat. Later excavations

44 B. R. CHATTERJEE
in 1931-32 have revealed the fact that the hill of Phnom

Bakhen is surrounded by numerous water-reservoirs. Their
symmetrical arrangement confirms the existence in former
times of axial causeways starting from the foot of the hill
and running in the four directions as one would expect in
the case of a Central Mount. On the north side too traces
of a ditch faced with stone have been discovered together
with remnants of bridges.

This dynasty came to close with Iginavarman Il, the
second son of Yagovarman. The crown passed on to
another stranger, Jayavarman IV (928-942 A.C.) whose only
claim to the throne was perhaps through his wife—a sister
of Yagovarman. He might have been proclaimed king in
the life-time of his nephew as some inscriptions of his tem-
porary capital Koh-ker would make his reign begin from 921,
not 928 A.D. His queen, whose name was Mahendradevi,
had a son by a previous marriage, and this son Rajendra-
varman (944-968 A.D.) succeeded to the throne after his
half-brother Harsavarman II (942-944 A.D.)

Indravarman

|

q we
~

L

¥ :

Yagovarman Mahendravarman Mahendradevi=
| | Jayavarman IV

|

Harsavarman J Isanavarman IT Rajendravarman MHarsavarman IT

Towards the close of the [0th century, in the reign of
Jayavarman V (968-1001) the son and successor of Rajendra-
varman, Mahayana Buddhism grows in importance in
Kambuja. The minister of this monarch brought from
foreign lands a large number of Mahayana texts. The
Hema-éringa-giri, identified with Ta Kev is tentatively assign-
ed to the reign of Jayavarman V by M. Coedés. This girl
was according to an inscription of Jayavarman V, the seat
of the Inspector of Qualities and Defaults. The next reign
was abruptly brought to an end by another dynastic revolu-
tion in 1002. Siryavarman | (1002- 1049), who seized the throne
by. force of arms, was not a direct descendant of his imme-

RECENT ADVANCES IN KAMBUJA STUDIES 45

diate predecessors Jayavarman V and Udayadityavarman I.
From some Pali chronicles of Laos M. Gcedés derives the
information that king Jivaka of Nagara Sri Dharma Raja
(Ligor in the Malay Peninsula) had conquered considerable
portions of Siam and that the son of king Jivaka became king
of Kambuja. By comparing dates M. Goedés comes to the
conclusion that the son of the king of Sri Dharma Raja who
had become king of Kambuja could be no other than Sirya-
varman | in whose reign Dvaravati (Siam) was annexed to
Cambodia. Nagara Sri Dharma Raja was a centre of
Buddhism in the Malay Peninsula and the new ruler of
Kambuja (Siryavarman I) was a fervent Buddhist as his
posthumous name of Nirvanapada clearly indicates. He
also introduced among the royal titles the Malay title of
Tuan (Lord). Phimanakas (Akasa Vimana sky-lower of the
Silpa Sastras) was built during his reign. It was supposed
that Jayaviravarman was an earlier name of Siiryavarman I.
It now appears that Jayaviravarman and Siryavarman | were
two rival kings of Kambuja in the same period—Siryavarman
in the long run getting the better of his rival.

During the reign of his successor Udayadityavarman II
the last monarch mentioned in the inscription of the High
Priests which covers the period from Jayavarman II to this
reign (latter part of eighth century to the middle of eleventh
century), was built the Baphuon—one of the gems of Khmer
architecture. According to M. Ccedés, Baphuon may be the
corrupt form of Brah (or Vrah—great) Bhuvana, Its full name
may have been Vrah Bhuvana Tilaka—Bhuvana-tilaka being
a type of building mentioned in the Silpa Sastras. M, Coedés
thinks that very probably Baphuon is identical with the
Svarnadri of the inscriptions. This Svarnidri was the
‘Copper Tower’ which so much impressed Cheou Ta-kouan
(the comparison of the Chinese envoy of Kublai Khan) who
visited Cambodia towards the end of the [3th century.

Another dynastic change took place towards the end of
the Iith century A.D. Jayavarman VI seized the throne
and for a short period there seems to have been two rival
kings in Kambuja—Harsavarman HI. and _ Jayavarman Vi.

at

flee

46 B. R. CHATTERJEE

Siryavarman II (1112-1152) of this dynasty of Mahidhara-
pura was a great builder as well as a warlike monarch.
The most famous temple of Cambodia, the Visnu temple
of Angkor Vat, was built during the reign of Siryavarman I]
and completed by his successor. Several scholars are of
the opinion that Angkor Vat (a comparatively recent name
meaning ‘Palace-Monastery’) was originally a mausoleum
finished immediately after Sairyavarman II’s death. The fact
that the entrance is on the west, they think, proves conclu-
sively that it was a mausoleum. M. Coedés, on the other
hand, does not believe that Angkor Vat should be considered
as essentially different from other Cambodian temples. He
would rank it among that numerous class of Khmer,—Cham
and Javanese temples in which, as is conclusively proved by
epigraphical evidence, deceased rulers were worshipped
under the aspect of divinities of the Brahmanical and
Buddhist pantheon. Angkor Vat is a Buddhist monastery
today. But it was not so in the beginning. The principal
image in the central shrine has vanished, but a set of images
of the avataras of Visnu (Narasimha, Varaha, Matsya and
Kiirmavataras, etc.) still remains as vestiges of the original
statutory of the sreat Visnu temple. At Angkor Vat too
has been discovered a sacred deposit (gold leaves) in the
foundations right under the central sanctuary at the ground
level of the surrounding country, Similar sacred deposits
have been discovered at the Bayon and another shrine.
M. Goedés thinks that this arrangement is peculiar to the
type of shrines which we may call ‘temple-mountains’ where
the principal image was placed on the top of a stepped
pyramid. All this confirms his belief that Angkor Vat
should not be placed in a separate category and that it was
a temple with the image of Siryavarman II, representing
Visnu, as the presiding deity. Parama-Visnuloka was the
appropriate posthumous title of -Siiryavarman II.

) Jayavarman VII was the last of the great figures of
Cambodian history, He too belonged to the dynasty of
Mahidharapura. New light has been thrown on his early
_ life by the recent researches of M. ‘Qoedés on the Mahidhara-

*

ta

£

om

pth
RECENT ADVANCES IN KAMBUJA STUDIES 47

pura dynasty. On the death of his father Dharanindra-
varman II it seems that Jayavarman for some reason or other
could not obtain possession of the throne which passed to
Yagovarman II. Jayavarman had to live a life of exile in
Campa (Annam), while his wife Jayarajadevi (the daughter
of a Brahman) lived the life of an ascetic in Kambuja. We
read in a badly damaged inscription of the tapasy@ of the
princess, of her emaciated limbs, of her tresses converted
into jat@ and the tears she shed for her absent lord. On
hearing the news of a conspiracy against the king Jayavarman
hurried back to Campa. But he arrived too late to save
Yaéovarman II from the usurper Tribhuvanadityavarman (a
bhritya or servant of the late king) who now seized the
throne. Jayavarman quietly bided his time and the oppor-
tunity came when the king of Campa invaded Kambuja
and slew the usurper (1177 A.D.)

Both Yaégcvarman [J and Tribhuvanadityavarman were
not known hitherto as rulers of Cambodia. The only thing
that we know about Yagovarman I] is that he must have
belonged to the royal family, as he was faithfully served by
the future Jayavarman VII and his son Srindrakumara, and
that he was attacked by a mysterious personage Bharata
Rahu, who is depicted in a bas-relief of Bantay Chmar with
the demoniac features of the mythical Rahu, and saved
through the exertions of Stindrakumara. Shortly afterwards
he was deposed by an usurper who assumed the title of
Tribhuvanadityavarman on seizing the throne. The bas-
reliefs of the Bayon and Bantay Chmar promise light on
this obscure period.

The vicissitudes of his life taught both Jayavarman VII
and his queen Jayarajadevi a new outlook on life which is
reflected in the inscriptions of this reign. One hundred and
two hospitals (arogya-s4la) were built in the different
provinces and every year provisions and medicine were
supplied to these hospitals from the royal magazines. In
the hospital inscriptions the king proclaims : “lt is the
sufferings (of the subjects) of the state. which make the
kings suffer—not their own pain.’ _ These inscriptions are

48 B. R. CHATTERJEE

fervently Buddhist in tone and the king and the queen were
both devoted adherents of Mahayana.

Jayavarman VII was also a great conqueror. Campa
as well as Pegu were annexed by him to Kambuja. A large
part of the Malay Peninsula also acknowledged his sway.
Finally the great building activity of Jayavarman VII deserves
special mention. The Bayon (Vaijayanta?), next to
Angkor Vat, the greatest temple in Cambodia, is now aittri-
buted to him. It has been the subject of so much contro-
versy of late that it is worthwhile giving some details
about it.

The Bayon which adorns the centre of Angkor Thom
was supposed all along to have been built by YaSovarman
in the ninth century A.D. In 1925 M. Finot discovered in
the shrine images of Lokeévara (Avalokitegvara) disfigured
and carefully concealed. He believed that the Bayon was
begun by Jayavarman II, who was supposed to be a
Buddhist as Java, the place he came from, had been identi-
fied with Zabaj (Srivijaya) the stronghold of Mahayana
Buddhism. In 1926 M. Philippe Stern announced that the
Bayon, supposed to be the Central Mount of the inscriptions,
could not have been the centre of Angkor Thom in Yaéo-
varman’s reign. He assigned the Bayon to the reign of
Siryavarman I—the first Buddhist monarch of Kambuja
(early [Ith century). In 1928 the Sanskrit inscriptions placed
at the corners of the city-wall of Angkor Thom were decip-
hered by M. Qoedés. He found that these inscriptions
belonged to the reign of Jayavarman VII who is described
as having constructed the high city ramparts and dug the
deep moat round Yagodharapuri, This must have been
done after Yagodharapuri (Angkor Thom) had been pillaged
and partially destroyed by the Campa invaders in 1177 A.D.
Now these city-walls and gates have many features in
common with the architectural designs and ornamental work
of the Bayon, Bantay Chmar, etc. The inscriptions on the
walls of the Bayon and Bantay Chmar also belong to the
reign of Jayavarman VIL Some bas-reliefs of Bantay
Chmar and the Bayon have now been satisfactorily explained

cn REA cP
hime

RECENT ADVANCES IN KAMBUJA STUDIES 4g

as depicting incidents of Jayavarman VII’s career. The
discovery of a Yagovarman II, one of the immediate prede-
cessors of Jayavarman VII, from newly deciphered inscrip-
tions as well as a bas-relief at Bantay Chmar, showing his
rescue from Bharata Rahu by Srindarakumara (the son of
Jayavarman VII), obviates the necessity of dragging in the
YaSovarman I of the 9th century.

Then, from the point of view of the development of
Kambuja art and architecture, archzeologists have been
doubting for some time the sequence in which scholars like
Philippe Stern had wished to place the three principal monu-
ments of Kambuja—Baphuon (close of the tenth century),
the Bayon (beginning of the eleventh century—Siryavarman
I's reign), Angkor Vat (middle of the twelfth century), Why
should Bayon with all its imperfections be placed between
the two gems of Cambodian architecture? M. Ccedés would
attribute the imperfections of the Bayon not to precocity (as
M. Finot had proposed te do) but to senility.

The Bayon enshrines the statues of many members of
Jayavarman VII's family. Why should the greatest monarch
of Cambodia put the statues of his family in a shrine built
by a previous sovereign ?

A bas-relief of the Bayon gives an almost exact
representation of the towers of Angkor Vat. Ornamental
stones of Baphuon have been used in building the Bayon.

Archzeologists would now put the priticipal monuments
of Cambodia in the following chronological order :—
Baphuon (second half of the eleventh century—the
Svarnadri of Udayadityavarman II); Angkor Vat (middle of
the twelfth century—reigns of Siryavarman II] and Dhara-
nindravarman II); the Bayon (towards the end of the twelfth
century—reign of Jayavarman VID.

Quite recently has been discovered in a pit under the
central tower of the Bayon a large-sized image of the
Buddha canopied by the hood of a polycephalous Naga. It
is twelve feet in height without the pedestal (fifteen feet
with the pedestal). Ie is. “now certain that this image
of the Buddha was” ~ the © — object - of worship first

7

50 B. R. CHATTERJEE

enshrined in the principal sanctuary of the Bayon.
lk is reckoned among the finest pieces of sculpture

found in Cambodia. In the Indian Art and Letters, 1937,

M. Paul Mus writes that this Buddha has been declared by.

M. Coedés to be a statue of Jayavarman VII deified as a
Buddha. The great stone faces of the Bayon towers (about
two hundred of them decorate the exterior of the royal
temple of Jayavarman VII) are now interpreted as colossal
portraits (in stone) of that great emperor representing
Avalokiteévara. The four faces on each tower mean facing
in all directions,—omnipresent and ommiscient, and Avalo-
kiteSvara in the Lotus of the Good Law, the Mahayana text
par excellence, is adored as omnipresent and omniscient—
all the Buddhas being manifestations of his infinite mercy.
Jayavarman VII, a pious and powerful Buddhist emperor,
would naturally like to be regarded by posterity as a mani-
festation of this great Bodhisattva. A detailed study of the
various portions of this monarch in the reliefs of Angkor
Thom has led M. Geedés to the conclusion that it is Jayavar-
man VII himself, in the guise of Avalokitegvara, who domi-
nates the Bayon and the ruins of Angkor Thom of today.

Phimanakas

Beewee Re een tunes see eeaanzel

x Phnom
Bakhen :

doevenemsrad bebtweanaznnan *

Smaller Miangled ayavarman Vil's ieee Thom which we
see to-day.

Larger rectangle (with: ‘dotted : Fines) Siadovarinan? s Angkor
Thom which has mostly disappeared.

At this stage, when Kambuja under Jayavarman VII was
at the pinnacle of her glory, let us take leave of the

country. Soon after his death the Siamese would be knocking
at its gates.
Relation Between Indian and Indonesian
Culture

By O. C. Gangoly a iS e 4

The approximate date of the ‘‘colonisation’’ and the
spread of Indian culture across the Indian Ocean has been
the subject of keen debate amongst scholars. When the
text of the Arthagdstra was published, some scholars (Jacobi
and others) suggested that a passage in that text distinctly re-
commended (as a piece of kingly obligation) the foundation
of new places of habitation or colonies in already existing
provinces by vomiting out inhabitants from one’s own
country in order to people new colonized tracts or by invit-
ing the flow of foreigners into one’s own countries (‘“Bhiia-
pirvam-abhitapirvam va janapadam paradesGpavahanena
svadegabhisyandavamanena va nivegayet’’, Arthaéastra,
Book II, Ch. I, 1, Janapada-nivega). Louis Finot in an
adroitly argued paper’? contested this suggestion, that
the passage in question could be taken to offer a direct
testimony to the commencement of Indian culture in the
neighbouring peninsula.” Finot’s paper has not unfortunate-

1 “Les origines de la colonisation Indienne” par Louis Finot,
BEFEO, Tome XH, 1912, pp. 1-4.

2 Finot’s views can be gathered from the following remarks:
“That the Dekkhan was Brahmanised by this epoch (ie. of Kautilya)
one could admit; but Brahmanisation does not mean occupation, and
it is to be believed that this country, all Brahmanised as it was,
offered yet the vast spaces to interior colonisation. It is with that
only, according to our wpinion, that the ArthaSastra occupies itself,
because if it had in view establishments outside India, it-could not
omit to lay down particular rules for the solution of the many prob-
lems which were involved in the installation of a civilized minority
in the midst of a barbarous population” (Tr. by the present writer).

52 0. C. GANGOLY

ly attracted the attention of Indian scholars. About twenty-
eight years have elapsed since the matter was debated.
Since then, a large volume of records has been unearthed
bearing on the origin and history of Indian culture in
Burma, Malaya, Siam, Cambodia, Campa, Java, Sumatra and
Borneo. Quaritch Wales’ recent explorations in Malaya
have also brought forward some archeological evidences to
establish the fact that from very carly times, Takkola (on
the western coast of Malaya on the Bay of Bengal) and
Tamralinga (on the eastern coast of Malaya on the Bay of
Bandon, later, the site of Nakon Sri Thammarat) formed
two important outposts through which Indian culture
radiated and spread over to Cambodia, Siam, Campa and
other parts of South-Eastern Asia.* In an illuminating
geographical study* contributed by Sylvain Lévi, that
great savant of Indology has been able to establish on
data extracted from the texts of the Mahabharata, the
Ramayana, the Mahd-Niddesa, and the Brhat-katha that
Indian merchants, navigators, and adventurers were familiar
with the products of Burma and the Malaya Peninsula from
very early times and that some parts of the trans-Gangetic
Peninsula [e.g. Suvarnakudya, Suvannakuta, Subanna-
bhiimi (some parts of Burma), Takkolam, Tamlin (Tamra-
lingam), and Javam] were known to Indian authors from at
least the first century of the Christian Era.° We may goa

3 H.G Quartich Wales: ‘4 Newly Explored Roite of Ancient
Indian Cultural Expansion; Indian Art and Letters, IX, No. 1, 1925.
Ibid., “Towards Angkor, 1938, Ch. X, pp. 147 ff.

4 “Ptolémée, le Niddesa et la Brbatkatha,” Etudes Asiatiques
Il, pp. 1-55. 3 Pe

5 “Au Tere sitcle lr, il est presque certain qu’un auteur
ecrivant dans I'Inde n’aurait pu dresser la liste des ports de’Extréme-
Orient telle que nous la lisons dans le Niddesa,”* * * “La date de
cette liste, ct par conséquent de Vouvtage qui la contient, vient donc
s¢ placer entre la find du Tete sitcle et la fin du Ille.”” Ibid., p. 51. From

Y

EN RI

oY ei sma
INDIAN AND INDONESIAN CULTURE 53

step further and claim that having regard to the fact that
these Far Eastern ports and tracts bear Indian names, in
fairly early texts, it may be reasonable to conclude that the
‘“Indianization’’ of these tracts must have begun previous
to the first century A.D. But the point we are concerned
with here, is not so much the ancient chronology of the
Indianization of the regions beyond the seas, as the nature
of the relationship of the so-called ‘‘colonial’’ Indian culture
with its parent stem. Generally speaking, it is usual to
regard colonial cultures, as somewhat inferior to the parent-
al culture in its place of origin,—on account of the fact
that it is the second-rate men belonging to the surplus popu-
lation that are usually sent abroad to people and develop
distant colonies. And, as a rule, the colonized countries
are scarcely regarded as strongholds, or significant points
of expansion of parental culture on equal footing with the
original sources.

To these general rules the expansion of Indian culture
across the Indian Ocean offers a very significant exception.
The pioneers who set out to plant the seeds of Indian
culture, as well as those who permanently took up their
abode in various cultural kingdoms of Greater India and
developed Indian culture to a level of equal eminence
with that of the mother-continent, were not worthless ne’er-
do-wells, or second-rate men, who could be elbowed out
of the Indian Continent to eke out a fortune, or seek a
chance success abroad. The representatives of various
clans of learned Brahmins (such as those of the Agastya-
gotra, or the Kaundinya-gotra) who carried the torch of
Indian religious culture to distant countries were, undoubt-
edly, worthy and very distinguished representatives, the
finest types of Indian intellectual and:spiritual giants. The

the above extracts it is clear that according to Sylvain Levi,
an author writing in India could not have prepared the list of the sea-
ports of the Far East, such as we find in the Niddesa, before the first
century A.D.

a ’

54 0. C. GANGOLY

Ksatriya Princes, probably some branch of the Pallava
dynasty, who founded, built, and organized political king-
doms and culture-centres in various tracts of Cambodia
(fou-nan) were enterprising groups of typical Indian
Princes of remarkable talent, industry, and organizing
ability, The successive chains of Brahmin ministers
who advised the Cambodian kings (e.g. Siva-Kaivalya,
Rudracarya, Hiranyaruci, [Sana-miirti, Sada-siva, Satkara-
Pandita, Divakara-Pandita and a host of others) who advis-
ed and guided the polity, the military exploits, and the reli-
gious foundations of their protégés, were learned and wise
men of remarkable talents and equipments. Likewise, the
heroic types of Indian Princes (probably some branch of the
Calukya dynasty as suggested by their characteristic virudas,
‘Uttunga-deva’) who founded and developed glorious king-
doms in Java were brilliant men of sterling qualities
of head and heart and were justly deified as Deva-
rajas or “Divine Kings’’ after their death. Similarly, the
group of heroic Indian Princes of the Sailodbhava or
Sailendra dynasty who founded the great oversea Empire
of Sri-Vijaya were personalities of exceptional talent and
brilliance,

That Sanskrit learning was kept up at a high pitch of
excellence and was understood and cultivated by a large
number of people in Cambodia, Sumatra and Java is proved
by numerous inscriptions in Sanskrit, the high literary merit
of which excels the continental compositions and deserves
high praise. . Some of these inscriptions offer valuable data
for the history of Sanskrit literature. Yagovarman, king of
Cambodia, and the builder of Angkor Thom, is said to have
written a commentary on the Mahabhasya.° Valuable

be Nigendra-vaktta-visa-dusta-tayeva bhisyam
Mohapradam pratipadan kila Sabdikinam if
Vyakhyamyitena vadanendu-vinirggatena
Yasya pesbadiaim eve ead eek! i;

we ee
INDIAN AND INDONESIAN CULTURE 55

and rich collections of books were maintained in the
‘‘Pustakaéramas”’ or the 'Hermitages of Books’ or Libraries.
Endowments were provided for regular or periodical recita-
tions of the Puranas and the Epics. That some cities in
the colonies were specialized centres of some phases of
Indian culture of greater importance than the continental
centres may be illustrated from the fact that Atiéga
(Dipankara Srijfidna), the great Buddhist Patriarch, had to
reside for twelve years in Suvarnadvipa, then the head-
quarters of Mahayana Buddhism, in order to master the
teachings of Acadrya Dharmakirti, the High Priest of
Suvarnadvipa. Some of the establishments in various parts
of Greater India were important centres of Tantric cults,
contributing new and original developments. The two
separate and sectarian cults of Siva and Buddha attained a
happy fusion in the Siva-Buddhist cult of Java. Burma’
and Siam® have made original and distinguished contribu-
tions to Pali Buddhism and to Buddhist Literature. In the
spheres of architecture, sculpture, applied arts, and
crafts, the Indian continent must have sent some of its
greatest masters to the ‘‘colonies’’ in order to cater to the
artistic needs and to carry out the architectural ambitions

[Sloka 13, (D) from the Stéle of Thnal Baray, A. Bergaigne:
Inscriptions Sanscrites de Champa et du Cambodge 2d fascicule,
P- 305 (485).]

7 Mabel Bode (The Pali Literature of Burma, 190g) has indicated
the outlines of the rich literature of Buddhism developed in Burma.
The Theras of Sagaing (c.g. Tilokaguru) appear to have taken the
lead in Abhidhamma studies. The famous Pali work of Burma,
Saddaniti, composed by Thera Uttarajiva, when taken to Ceylon, was
received with enthusiastic admiration and declared superior to any
work of the kind written by previous authors. —

8 G. Ceedés has given an interesting survey of the enormous
output of Siamese Buddhist Literature in his learned article: ‘Note
sur les ouvrages: Palis EES en PO. Thai; _BEFEO, XV, 191 55

Pp. ae

56 O. C. GANGOLY

of the Indian Princes in Indonesia and to fashion innumer-
able images of the highest sculptural merits, for the use of
religious devotees. Boro-Budur, of Java,—the ‘‘Parthenon
of the East,’? and Angkor Vat, the chef d'oeuvre of
Cambodia, to name only two of the supreme masterpieces,
eclipse anything that has been achieved on the soil of India
itself. The brilliant schools of sculpture in Java, in
Siam, in Cambodia, and in Malaya likewise put to the shade
the schools of Image-making in continental India. These
evidences unquestionably point to the fact that the Indians
of the continent assiduously kept up the values and stand-
ards of Indian culture in the so-called colonies at a high
level of excellence, and in some phases (e.g. in Plastic Arts)
outshone the achievements at their original birth-place.
They did not look upon these distant centres of Indian
culture across the seas—as mere inferior reflexions of
Indian culture—derived second-hand from cotinental
sources, but, in many instances as independent seats and
sources, as they developed the oversea tracts (“‘dvipantara’’)
into the most important limbs and significant centres of the
best phases of Indian culture. The so-called colonies
were regarded as integral parts of the Great Indian Conti-
nent—so as to make India and Greater India—as one unified
and uniform texture woven by the best Indian hands—
whether living at home, or abroad. This view of the rela-
tionship of the continental and the so-called colonial
culture receives credence if we consider some of the texts
of the Purdnas.

According to the geography of the Purdnas, India Proper
is designated as ‘Jambu-dvtpa,”’ while the total extension
and limits of ‘‘Bharata-varsa’’ include the nine additional
territories (nava bheddn) across the Indian Ocean, ‘each in-
accessible from the other’’ (agamyah parasparam) being
“separated by the barriers of the seas’’ (samudrdntarita).
Thus in the Markandeya Puréna; Kraustuki addresses
Markandeya in the following words:—‘‘Lord! you have
summarily described the Jambu-dvipa,....-.Please describe

56h.

INDIAN AND INDONESIAN CULTURE 37

to me in detail Bharata with its distinguishing parts (bhedd),
their situations and extensions, specifying the territories
and the mountains.’ To this Markandeya replied :—
*‘Bharata-varsa, you should understand, consists of nine
distinct territories, separated by the seas and each
inaccessible from the other: Indra-dvipa, Kageruman,
Tamra-varna (>? Tamraparni), Gabhastiman, Naga-dvipa;
Saumya, Gandharva, Varuna (>? Borneo)—these are the
nine islands girt by the seas.’””

Even if all the nine islands cannot be satisfactorily
identified, the description of their being separated from
each other by seas appears to suggest the picture of an
‘‘Island-India,’’ the ‘Greater India’ of our modern scholars.
In the Vamana Purana (Ch. 13, I-11), after describing the
component territories of Jambudvipa, nine territories of
Bharata-varsa (Greater India) are likewise indicated. Here
the names of nine islands are slightly different: Indra-
dvipa, Kaseruna, Tamaraparna, Gabhastiman, Naga-dvipa,
Kataha, Simhala, Varuna and Kumara.’® In this list,

g Markandeya Purina, Ch. 57, Slokas, 5, 6, 7:—
“Bhiratasyasyavatsasya nava bhedan nibodha me|
Samudrintarita jfieyaste tvagamyah parasparam]| 5 ||
Indra-dvipah, Kagerumams-Tamravarno Gabhastiman|
Naga-dvipastatha Saumyo Gindharvo Varunastatha| 6 ||
Ayamtu navamastesim dvipah sagara-samvetal |”

It should be noted that actually eight islands are mentioned in-

tead of nine demanded by the context.

The description given of the oversea tracts in the text of the
Vayupurana which is believed to be one of the earliest, is substantially
the same as in the Markandeya Purana—see Vayupurana, Ch. 45,
Slokas 78-80.

10 “Indra-dvipah Kagerunas-Tamraparno Gabhastiman|

Naga-dvipah Katahagca Sithhalo Varunastatha |[10 ||

Ayamtu navamastesim dvipah sagara-samvetala[

SERCERHYE patikhyato dvipo’yam daksinottaral|| 11 |]
Nariaga- Posie, hy I Be Slokas ro-r1.

58 O. C. GANGOLY

apparently a later list, Saumya and Gandharva have been
substituted by two new territories those of Katiha and
Simhala, and Kumara is a new addition. It is immaterial
for our purpose, here, whether we could identify all these
nine islands. Naga-dvipa may be Nicobar Island.?** Varuna
may be Borneo (Vahrina).* Kataha is apparently the
Province of Ke(d)dah in the northern parts of the Malaya
Peninsula, having its chief city of the same name
(Katahanagara) with its neighbouring city known as Ganga-
nagara, both of which were besieged and destroyed by
Rajendra-Cola. As suggested by Dr. D. C. Sircar,’ the
name of Kataha must have been introduced in the Vamana
Purana ‘‘after Kataha became famous under the Sailendra
Emperors in the eighth century.”

In the Agnipurana (Chs. 118, 119) a distinction
is also made between India Proper (Jambu-dvipa) and
Island-India (Dvipdntara)'* consisting of nine islands

toa Jayaswal’s identification of Naga-dvipa with Nicobar has been
confirmed by a passage in the Valabassa-Jataka cited by V. S.
Agrawala JBORS., XXIII, pp. 133-37.

11 ‘Viruna’ may be a variation of “Vahtina’ which I have sought
to identify with Bornco on the basis of passages in the 48th section
of the Vayu-Purina. See my note published in Ripam, 1926,
Nos. 27-28, p. 114, and my paper: On Some Hindu Relics in Borneo,
IGIS., January, 1936, p. 97ff. |

12 D. C. Sircar: “Unbistoricity of the Kaumudi-mabotsava,”
JAHRS., IX, 1, 2, p. 67.

12a As regards the significance of the term Dvipantaram, we have
interesting light thrown on the word from a vety curious source. In
a Sansktit-Chinese Dictionary compiled in Central Asia between
the 7th and 8th centuries, reference is made to the countries situated
in the Southern Seas as jipattala, which Sylvain Lévi has restored to
Dvipantara and which Lévi pacaphrases as “another isle” or “another
continent.” According to Sylvain Lévi, this term properly designates
the Indian Archipelago and the neighbouring countries” (‘Le nom de
P archipel Indien en sanserit,’ Actes du XVIlle Congrés International
des Orientalistes, Oxford, Pigs
INDIAN AND INDONESIAN CULTURE 59

or territories (nava-bheda) girt by the seas.** What we
are seeking to establish is that the nine islands of
Greater India were regarded as integral part of Bhiarata-
varsa, and an equal sanctity attached to the component
parts of Island-India, as strongholds of national Indian
culture—where Indians lived, fought, traded and performed
their religious duties (yajfia, tapas, etc.,) and they were
looked upon as suitable areas for their cultural activity
(karma-bhami) on an equal footing with any part of India
Proper (Jambu-doipa). From this point of view, a passage
in the Vamana Purana (Ch. 13, 13) is very significant:
‘The nine islands have been sanctified by the performance
of sacrifices,’ by warfare,'® by trade,*® and diverse other
cultural activities’ (“‘Ijyd-yuddha-vanijyddyaih karmma-
bhih kriapavanah"’). Now, if we take one by one each

13 “Indra-dvipah Kaseruéca Tamravarno Gabhastimin]] 3 ||
Naga-dvipastatha Saumyo Gindharvvastvatha Viarunah|
Ayamtu navamastesam dvipah sagara-samvetal|| 4 ||
Yojaninam sahasrini dvipo’yam daksinottarat|
Nava bheda Bhiaratasya madhyabhede’tha piirvvatali|| 5 ||

In describing the oversea territories of Bharatavarsa, the Agnipuriina
(Ch. 119, Slokas 27 & 28) refers to a peak, as the boundary of a tract,
under the name of Anda-Katiha, of which the limit is said to be the
peak in question. Could it be the peak of Keddah in Upper Malaya?

“Loki-lokastatal: gail yojandyutavistritaly| 27 ||
Lokalokastu  tamasavrto’thanda-Katahatali|
Bhiimih sinda-katahena paiicagat-koti-vistarai] 28 ||
(Vangavasi Edition, p. 285)

14 This is corroborated by the Yiipa Inscription of Milavarman
in Borneo, which commemorates the performance of a vabu-snvarnaka
yajfia. Sce Vogel's article in Bijdragen, Deel XXIV, 1918.

15 This is Meened by numerous battles including the severe con-
flicts of the Sailendras and Colas. |

16 This is borne out by numerous evidences | in the Ramayana,
the Mahabhirata, the ee a athe -_ Steppedittract and the

Kathasaritsagara,

60 ©. C. GANGOLY

of these items, which, according to the Vdmana Purdna,
imparts sanctity to the oversea tracts, we have actual illus-
tration and proof of each item. Thus as regards ijyd
yajiia or sacrifices)—~we find, this is corroborated by the
Yiipa inscription of Milavarman discovered in Borneo
which commemorates the performance of a vahusuvarnaka
yajfia. As regards battles and warfare, this is attested by
numerous battles at various places in Malaya and Indo-
nesia including the severe conflicts of the Sailendras and
the Colas. As regards trade and commercial activity—
that a brisk trade and mercantile intercourse were carried
on between India and Indonesia is borne out by numerous
evidences in the Ramayana; the Mahabharata, the two Tamil
Epics, Manimekhalai and Silappadikaram, and in the Katha
saritsdgara some of which we shall presently cite here.

Put into modern parlance, the canon of sanctity laid
down in the Vamana Puréna would mean~wherever the
Indians have lived, whenever they have rendered their
homage to the Divinity through sacrificial rites,—there
they have built up a New India. This is, in short, the
principle of Indian colonization.

This canon of sanctity prescribed in the V@mana Purdna
appears to meet and fully answer Finot’s objections—that
the ArthaSdstra could not possibly recommend a colony
of Indians to emigrate across the seas and establish them-
selves in tracts, densely populated by mnon-Aryan and
aboriginal inhabitants as these tracts would be unsuitable
venues or fields for Indian cultural expansion. By the
time of the earliest Puranas these oversea tracts rust have
been thoroughly Indianized and adopted and sanctified as
karmabhiimis or appropriate areas of Indian cultural
activity. The point established is that the intervening
seas did not prevent the distant territories in Island-
India—being actually placed on the map of Indian
culture. That Indians have throughout the centuries re-
garded oversea territories of Bharatavarsa as essential
and integral parts of India of which Jambudvipa was only

cape ROP Te
.

ty
INDIAN AND INDONESIAN CULTURE 61

another segment, may be, a big segment,—is further corro-
borated by the testimony of Arab geographers. Thus
Masiidi in his work “Meadows of Gold’ (943 A.D.) thus
indicates the geographical limits of India: ‘‘India is a vast
country exiending over sea and land and mountains. It
borders on the country of Zabag, (i.e. Sumatra or Greater
Java) which is the kingdom of the Maharaja, the king of
the islands (i.c. the Sailendra Emperor). Zabag which
separates India from China is comprised within the former
country (i.e. India)’’.”’

Further corroboration of this view is offered by a
curious but a very significant Sloka in the Fifth Act of the
Kaumudi-mahoisava, the upper limit of the date of which
has been accepted by scholars as the seventh century.
The Sloka describes the shady and amorous adventures
of a fashionable rake, a gallant sensualist who has tasted
the gay life of all the famous cities of India (Bharatavarsa),
having visited women in the cities of Ayodhya (Saketa),
Kanctpura (Conjeeveram), Pampa (Bellary), Vidisa
(Besnagar), Katdha-nagara (Keddah, in Malaya Peninsula)
and in Kundina (probably a city in Vidarbha).”*

17. Quoted in R. C. Majumdar, Suvarnadvipa, Vol. I, pp. 162-163
from Ferrand, Relations de Voyages et textes Geographiques Arabes,
Persans et Turks relatifs a UExtréme-Orient dx Ville an XVIlle
siécles, Vol. I, p. 92.

18 The Kamasiiira of Vatsyayana, and other cognate literature,
the Arthasastra, and the Sanskrit Ravyas and the dramas offer abun-
dant evidence of the establishments of gay women and hetarae in all
cities as essential part of a cultured city life. Even in the Ramayana
we get a glimpse of the existence of gay women in Ayodhya itself—
and Dagaratha, realizing that the retinues of exiled Rama will find
their life in banishment very forlorn and drab, without these ameni-
ties of city life,—enjoins that the betarae should be sent out from
Ayodhya to this place of banishment. a

(Raghavasyanuyatrartham : ksipram pratividhiyatim|
Riipajivasca yey vanijasca mahadhanah)|_
Me a oo ‘Sarga, 2)

62 O. C. GANGOLY

‘Aye! Ayam purana-vito Veéaraksitah| Santanavamiva
Saratalpagatam veSabata-makaraketu-mandiravasanname-
nam pasyami| Kutah :—

Sakete krta-kautuko vikalitah Kanctpure kaficibhih

Pampayamabhisaritah parijanair-vijfidpito Vaidiée |

Gotresu skhalitah Katahanagare, yah Kundine mundito

Veéa-stri-nikasopalascirataram bhitvaiva nistham gatah||3}
Translation :

Hullo! Here comes the old sinner Veéaraksita. |
find him in a very much chastened mood, pretty exhausted
by his visits to the temples of Eros.

And how?

‘Having indulged in pranks in Sdketa,’? exasperated by

the girdles (of the gay girls) at Kaficipura, run after (by

girls) in Pampa, fired by old fames at the city of Vidiéa,
discomfited by addressing (new lovers) by wrong names

(of old lovers’ names) in the city of Katéha and shaved

(in disgrace) in Kundina, having served as the touch-

stone of gay girls, (he) has now finally settled down

to a pious life!’

Here, in this picture of a Rake's rcuiees, the object
is to mention all the great cities of India famous for their

Vita, as a gallant and fast young man who has acquired considerable
experience of the ways of betarae frequently occurs in the Indian
dramas (e.g. Mrechakatika). The carliest definition of a Vita is that
given in the Kamasiitra, (Ch. IV, 46): “Bhukta-vibbavastu gunavan
sakalatro vese gosthyamsca vahumatastadriipajivi ca vitab.” “An accom-
plished person who has spent through all his patrimony and who
lives by associating with hetaraes and their lovers and club-men.’

19 If ‘akyta-kautuka’ is the correct reading, the passage should be
_ rendered as ‘being baffled in his pranks in ‘Stketn.’ I am indebted
to Mr. Kshetresh Chattopadhyaya vf Allahabad University
and Mr. P. V. Kane of Bombay for valuable and courteous assistance
in translating the sloka, According to Mr. Kane, in the word
‘abbisarita’, the Lake of Pampa haps pasar or, sean) may have
been suggested,

INDIAN AND INDONESIAN CULTURE 63
gay life, where gentlemen of pleasure could seek satisfac-
tion. OF the six cities mentioned in the verse Saketa,
Kaficipura, Pampa, Vidiga, Kataha and Kundina, the first
four are very well known. Special significance attaches
to the two last-named cities, Kundina and Kataha.
Kundina is a very little known city, and does not figure
very much in ancient history. We can offer two alternative
identifications. On two inscribed stélés (coming from
Prasat Komphus, and Prah Einkosei, in Cambodia) a place
called Kandin (2 Kundina) is mentioned where Divakara-
bhatta, the royal chaplain of King Jayavarman V, built
and endowed a sanctuary of Siva in 894 Saka (972 A.D.)*°
The place came also to be known under the name of
Madhu-vana or Madhu-kanana, the ‘‘Bower of Bliss."" The
date of the Kaumudi-mahotsava could hardly be pulled
down as late as the last part of the 10th or the beginning
of the Ith century, a chronology necessitated by the fact
that Kandin does not leap into the pages of history before
972 A.D. Besides, however intriguing the name, Madhu-
vana was after all a small provincial town (perhaps a large
village) and never appears to have achieved the status of
a major city, such as would attract visitors from India
Proper, in search of a gay life—in this far-off “Bower of
Bliss’. We have, therefore, to seek an alternative identi-
fication which the text of the Kathdsariisdgara ‘offers. “The
Ocean of the Streams of Story’ composed by Somadeva
(C. 1073 A.D.) thrice mentions the city of Kundina: (a) in
the story of Nagasvamin, a Bramhana from a city called
Kundina,”' (b) in the story of the seven Bramhanas who

20 The insctiption of Prasat Kompus, partly in Sanskrit and partly
in Khmer, is edited, and translated by Cadés (Inscriptions du Cam-
bodge, Hanoi, 1937, pp. 160-186). The inscription from Prah
Einkosei is discussed in BEFEO., XXX, -p. 224.
ar Tawney’s translation, II, p. 449. -Durgaprasad and Parab’s
edition, p. gir: | Nagasvamiti nadmaham : bie ene
_ dvihl] 20 |] Dera) ;

64 .O. €. GANGOLY

devoured a cow in time of famine and (c) in the story
of Kanakavarsa and Madanasundari.*” In the last-named
story, Kundina is referred to as a prosperous and wealthy
city,’ in the province of Vidarbha (Vidarbha-visayd-visaya-
$ritam), and may well be the city of gaiety, suggested in the
text of our drama.

As regards the city of Kataha, mentioned in the verse,
ever since Qoedés wrote his epoch-making article: ‘Le
Royaume de Cri-Vijaya’™ identifying the city as one of the
main seats of the Sailendra Kings of the Empire of Sri-
Vijaya, which comprised the greater part of the Malaya
Peninsula, several Indonesian islands including, Sumatra,
Banka, and Java, quite a formidable literature has grown
up over the problem of identifying the exact site of Kataha-
nagara which in ancient Tamil literature is also known
under the name of Kalagam and Kadaram.”

It is very probable, that Kataha (Kalagam, Kadaram)
was an important sea-port and a brisk centre of trade, at
least from the third century A.D., long before the rise of
the Sailendras. According to Prof. Nilakanta Sastri, on

22 Tawney I, p. 24x. Parab’s edition, p. 120: Kundinikhye pure
purvamupadhyayasya kasyacit|| 109 || |
23 ‘Tawney I, pp. 539, 541, 548. Parab’s Edition, p. 278:
‘Vidatbhesvasti nagaram Srimat-Kundina-sariajiakam’|| 56 || and
p. 286.
24 BEFEO., tome XVIII, 1918, pp. 51-56.
25 J. L. Moens: “Crivijaya, Yava en Katiha,” Tijdscbrife
voor Indische Taal—Land en Volkenkunde, UXXVII, 1937,
pp. 317-486. J. Ph. Vogel: Het Koninkrijk Crivijaya, Bijdragen
tot de Taal—Land en Volkenkunde, Deel 75, 1919, pp. 626-637.
Ferrand in reviewing Coedés’s thesis suggests that Katiha and Kadara
are two different sites, J. 4s., 1919, p. 186. Moens in his paper cited
above seeks to place Kataha in the old Province of Kedu in Java.
Prof. Nilakanta Sastri in an able article ‘Kataha’ /GIS, V, 1938,
p. 128 ff., elucidates the problem of identifying this i important city of
the Sailendra Empire.

Weta

dea a ae

INDIAN AND INDONESIAN CULTURE 6

5
the authority of the text of the Pattinappalai (one of the
early Tamil Sangam works), “Kalagam (=Kataha) stands
for the name of a place in constant trade relation nen
Pattinam, or Kaveripatnam, the celebrated port of the early
Cola monarchs of the Sangam age. And ie amiear ot
Kalagam which must mean Kadaram or nothing, in thie
early poem of the second or third century A.D. is not
without considerable significance to a study of the early
history of the Hindu colonies of the East.’” (JGIS, V,
p. 129).°° That other parts of India were also in frequent

mercantile and adventurous communications with the city

of Kataha appears to be borne out by numerous references

to that oversea city, in more than one
Kathdsaritsdgara. These references appear to establish
that Kataha was not only a city where a brisk trade was
carried on in the sale and purchase of icivels,?" to Géhich
merchants from India frequently resorted in search of
fortune, but it was also a “home of all manner of felicities””
(Ketanam Sarva-sampadam) the amenities of which attracted
young men from India seeking pleasure,
under discussion suggests.

stories of the

as the verse

: The principal port of em-
barkation for northerners sailing to Kataha—was the old

port of Tamralipti (Tamluk). Various passages of the text of
Kathdsarits@gara leave no doubt as regards the fact that the
people of India thought nothing of making frequent voyages
to Kataha. Very well-known is the story of the foolish

26 Gerini has suggested (Researches, p. 570, n.) that Kataha

is referred to by Ptolemy under the form of Ko-tat, Kau-tek Kiu-te,
or Kortatha. He also suggests that Kataha was taken by Fan-man the
gallant king of Fu-nan (Cambodge), who reigned between 200-230
A.D. as referred to by the Chinese History of the Liang Dynasty.

27 ‘The precious stones which were the chief articles of commerce
of Katahanagara were probably derived from the néighbouring peak
of Kedah (Gunang Cherai). Colonel Low, cited by Gerini (Researches
on Ptolemy’s Geography of Eastern Asia, p. 485, n. 2) says “that
large crystals of quartz, gold and tin are to be found there.”

66 O. C. GANGOLY

merchant who went to the island of Kataha to trade. Among
his wares he had a great quantity of fragrant aloes-wood
which he foolishly burnt and made into charcoal and sold
at a cheap price.”® More romantic is the story of Guhasena,
a merchant of Tamralipti, who went to the city of Kataha
for the purpose of trade, notwithstanding the jealousies
of his wife Devasmita who was apprehensive that her hus-
band would be ensnared by some other lady in Kataha.”®
Guhasena took a long time to complete his sales and pur-
chases of jewels and other wares in Katéha®’—a delay which
afforded opportunity to four young merchants of Kataha to
come to Tamralipti to make an unsuccessful attempt to
seduce Devasmita—who subsequently sails to Kataéha and
punishes the rascals and brings back her truant husband.
In the story of the Brahman Candrasvamin, it is related that
the father makes several oversea journeys in search of his
sonand daughter. From a city named Jalapura on the
shore of the sea, he embarked ona ship and went across to
the isle of Narikela and from there he went ina ship to the
island of Kataha.° Thereafter, he visited in turn the
islands of Karpiira,*? Suvarna (Sumatra >) and Simhala

28 “Jagima sa vanijyayai Kataha-dvipamckadi” Saku-yaso-
Lambaka to, Text p. 315-
ag Athistam pitare pripte prerito’bhiitsa bandhubhih|
Katiha-dvipa-gamane Guhaseno yadrcchayai|
Taccisya gamanam bharyi tada nangicakara si
Sersya Devasmita Kamamanyastri-sahga-Sahkinil|75|| Text, p. 41.
30 Guhaseno’pi tam pripa Kataha-dvipamaégu sah|
Kartum pravavrte catra ratnanim kraya-vikrayaul| $3] Text
31 Potena gacchaté sikam Kataha-dvipa-mabhyagat
Eyam kramena Karpiira-suvama-dvipa-situhalan|
Vanigbhih saha gatvapi tam prapa vanijam na sahjj 62 || Text,

| 60 |

we

p. 285. Be
32 Very probably, Karpiira-dvipa (‘the Land of Camphor’) was an
earlier toponym for Takkola, a. word which is an equivalent of

{
:
\
INDIAN AND INDONESIAN CULTURE 67

(Ceylon) inthe company of merchants, in search of his
children. That frequent voyages were also made by
merchants to the island of Suvarnadvipa (Sumatra?) at one
time part of the Sailendra Empire, is proved by the story of
Samudra-siira {(‘‘the hero of the seas’’) apparently a courage-
ous sailor-merchant from Harsapura (the city belonging to
King Harsavarman), who was shipwrecked near the coast
of Suvarnadvipa, went to the city of Kalasapura; and came
back with a lot of money, and lived in affluence ever there-
after.”°

Reverting to the text of the Kaumudi-mahotsava, we
have cited enough references to establish that MKataha-
nagara as a very popular city was very well known to
Indians who made frequent voyages to the city, which was
thus linked up with India Proper in various ties of mercan-
tile and social interest. That Kataha-nagara, in far-off
Malaya should be mentioned in the verse in the drama in
the same breath with the other well-known cities of India
Proper,—appear to surprisingly corroborate the view we are
seeking to establish, viz., that the territories beyond the
Indian Ocean were regarded as integral parts of Indian
culture-area,—not mere ‘‘Colonies’’ of Provincial, India-
nized, or Indianesque culture. In fact, they were the very
limbs of India expanding themselves beyond the seas with
all the characteristic and essential qualities of Indian life and
culture growing and sustaining itself in new evironments.

In the field of Epigraphy, the characters of the various
Indian alphabets were adhered to in the oversea tracts and
kingdoms, with very few modifications and developments,
which were natural growths, and were, in no sense, degene-
rations or decadences from original Indian standards.

In the field of Architecture and the Plastic Arts—we also

Karpiira’ (Cf. Bhattasvamin: “Kecit Karpiiram-ity-ahus-takkolam iti
capare| Sri-vasakam tatha kecit kecil-lohita-candanam||”
33 Kathasaritsigara, Bombay Edition, p. 273-. |

68 O. C. GANGOLY

find a logical, a natural, and a continuous development of
the ideals and principles of Indian art as formulated at the
sources, carried out to their utmost perfections in the various
culture-areas in Greater India. Undoubtedly, certain new
forms and new types are achieved in sculptural representa-
tions (e.g. in the images of Visnu and Lokeévara in Cambo-
dia), but with the exceptions of a few local ethnic types in
physiognomy, they strictly adhere to the principles and con-
ventions of Indian sculpture and the canons of Indian image-
making evolved on the Continent. In architecture, notwith-
standing, some adoptions here and there, of local structural
forms, the fundamental principles and physiognomy of
Indian temples, shrines, stupas and other structures are
faithfully followed, and they grow and develop on the same
roads to new developments under novel conditions, and
under luxurious, congenial, and very favourable environ-
ments. AsI have shown elsewhere, that with very few
exceptions, there are no features in Indian architecture or
sculpture in the ‘‘Colonies’’ which cannot be explained as
the natural development of essentially Indian forms in a new
environment. Indian art in Siam, Indo-China, Malaya and
the Indian Archipelago is a continuation and _ logical
development by Indian hands of the principles and symbols
of Indian creation, applied and developed under ‘‘Colonial”’
conditions. The art, culture and civilization of India
beyond the seas formed an integral part of the art and
civilization of the Indian continent. The culture-areas
that developed and bore rich fruits in the trans-Gangetic
territories and in the Indian Archipelago, were so many
outlying frontiers and logical expansions of the civilization
of a Greater India stretching itself to the shores beyond the
“moving waves’’ (calormmi).. On the basis of the new
evidences set forth above it may be justly claimed that the
theory of a group of scholars. of the so-called “Indian
Influences” in Greater India demands a serious modification.
It is nota question of “‘Influences’’, it is a question of a
wholesale transportation of the characteristic features and

aca a

enter

'

INDIAN AND INDONESIAN CULTURE 69

phases of Indian culture, bag and baggage,** in all its
characteristic features, elements and textures, with all its
social and religious polities, its trade-guilds, and industrial
systems, its canons of architecture and sculpture. Indian
culture in Indonesia is in fact a substantial part of the
original context of Indian civilization®® carried overseas
by Indian emigrants—to a new culture-area—a new Rarma-

bhami age arhusqa: emai: wags: |

34 A. Bergaigne (Inscriptions Sanscrites de Campa et Cambodge,
I, p. x70) cites Burnell with approval to suggest that more or less
wholesale emigrations flowed from India to the Indonesian Colonies:
“Burnell etait porte & Pexpliquer par des emigrations opérees pius ou
moins en masse, a la suite de crises religicuses, ou i! faisait intervenir
tantot les invasions mussulmanes.”” The suggestion that the emigra-
tions were necessitated by Mussalman invasions or Brahmanic perse-
cutions is wholly gratuitous. Dr. Kern, in an article in Dutch on
‘Dravidian Folknames of Sumatra’ (Bijdragen, Deel 55, 1903) has
shown that there was a large colony of Tamil workers settled not
only in Sumatra, but also in Java; the Hindu noblemen
employed such labourers and workmen imported from India.
Kempers who does not believe that Indian colonizers planted them-
selves in the colonies in any large numbers, nevertheless concedes that
“their numbers were regularly reinforced by new-comers” (“Cultural
Relations Between India and Java,’ Calcutta University Lectures,
1937, Pp. 9).

35 A keen controversy has raged over the problem—as to who
were the actual authors of the architectural and sculptural master-
pieces in Siam, Cambodia, Campa, Malaya (Sri-Vijaya), Sumatra and
Java—a controversy to which two eminent scholars Dr. Bosch and
M. Parmentier have richly contributed (see English translation of |
Parmentier’s article: ‘Art of Campi,” (Répam Nos. 15 and 16, pages
41-48), and of Dr. Bosch’s article ‘A Hypothesis as to the Origin of
Hindu-Javanese Art,’ (Ripam, No. 17, January 1924, pp. 6-39).
Reference may also be made to the present writer's “Note on the

Origin of Indo-Javanese Art’ (Riupam No. 17, pp. 54-57)-

NOTICES OF BOOKS

Alivardi and his times; By Kalikinkar Datta. Published
by the University of Calcutta, 1939. Pp. xv+302.

Dr. Kalikinkar Datta has already won high reputation
for his scholarly contributions to the history of India in the
eighteenth and first half of the nineteenth centuries. Among
his other publications may be mentioned Studies in the
History of the Bengal Subah, 1740-1770 A.D.; Education
and Social Amelioration of Women in Pre-Mutiny India,
and the Santal Insurrection of 1855-57. In the present work
he traces with equal industry and success the career of the
last powerful Muslim ruler of Bengal, Mirza Muhammad
Ali, better known as Alivardi Khan.

A glance at the excellent bibliography given at the
end is enough to convince the reader that he has utilised all
available sources bearing on his subject. Here the sour-
ces are classified and described under the following heads:
{1} Contemporary Persian Works, (2) Records of the East
India Company, (3) Correspondence of the Council of
Chandernagore, (4) Works of Eighteenth-century European
Writers and Travellers, (5) Contemporary Bengali Literature,
6} Contemporary Sanskrit Works, (7) Maratha Records,
(8) Secondary Works, (9) Magazines and Journals, (10) Maps
and (11) Glossaries. Eight appendices, a good index, a
valuable map of Bengal, Bihar and Orissa, and a map of the
battle of Giria, add to the value of this work.

In the first two chapters, the author describes Alivardi’s
early career and his rise to power. The dreary narratives
of Maratha invasions and Afghan insurrections form the
topics of the two following . chapters. The next (Ch. V)
describes the relations of Alivardi with European traders and
especially with the English, the most powerful of them all.
Then follows (Ch. VI) the story of the closing scene of

Alivardi’s career with an estimate of. his character. The

a

ow dS
NOTICES OF BOOKS qi

following chapters are of a more general character and they
seek to throw a welcome, if somewhat fitful, light on the
external trade of Bengal, the general economic condition
and the social life of the province. The author's narrative,
based upon a first-hand study of the records and enriched
with his careful observations, is accurate and scholarly, his
style is easy and flowing, his historical reflections are always
thoughtful, his estimate of characters is sound and just. We
have no doubt that the present work will remain for a long
time to come the standard authority on the subject which it
treats.

We would like to offer a few remarks for the considera-
tion of the author in case a second edition of the work is
called for. P. viii, last but one line, for portrait read repro
duction. P.57, for dominating over read dominate. P.234,
‘Education depended on private initiative and encouragement.’
The examples quoted illustrate patronage of literary men rather
than education. P. 238, The example of Madhusiidana illus-
trates the extent of ‘advanced’ rather than ‘primary’ educa-
tion. P. 283, Correspondence with the Chandernagore
Council. The title is incomplete and the date of publication
is not given. P. 287, for Nidu read Nidhu, Ibid. A description
of the interesting Sanskrit work Citracampii would be
welcome.

U. N. GHOSHAL

The Archeology of Hindoo Sumatra; By F. M. Schnitger,
Conservator of the Museum at Palembang and Leader of
the Archaeological Expeditions in Sumatra, 1935 and 1936.
Published by E. J. Brill, Leiden, Pp. I-XI, 1-44. Frontis-
piece and 43 plates.

The students of Indian and Indonesian Art and
Archaeology are deeply indebted to Dr. F. M. Schnitger for
the great service he has rendered to scholarship by publish-
ing his work on The Archaeology of Hindoo Sumatra. The
Buddhist and Brahmanical antiquities of Java have been
treated at great length by many. writers zmong whom the

72 NOTICES OF BOOKS

names of such veteran scholars as Dr. Kern, Dr.
Stutterheim and Dr. N. J. Krom stand foremost; they as well
as a devoted band of Dutch archaeologists did a great deal
for the elucidation of the past history of Java and the adja-
cent islands of the Indian Archipelago. Dr. Schnitger can well
claim to be ranked as one of them by the painstaking and
methodical researches he has carried in the same line. His
work is of special interest and significance on account of the
fact that he took up Sumatran art and archaeology as his
principal subject and undertook independent exploration and
excavation works in the island. He has thus been able to
collect a vast amount of archaeological materials which throw
a flood of light on its past history and civilisation; the mate-
rials sedulously collected and so ably presented by him in
the work under review fully show what part Eastern and
Southern India played in shaping the art and culture of
Sumatra in ancient days.

His work consists of a detailed account of the archaeo-
logical discoveries that were made by himself and by others
in the different parts of southern, central and western
Sumatra. Civilisation in ancient Sumatra as in other countries,
grew along some of the river-valleys. Such are the
Komering, the Musi, the Hari, the Kampar Kanan, the
Barumon and its left tributary the Panei. Among the places
where scientific excavations and explorations were carried
on by the scholar himself, mention may be made of the
various sites near Palembang drained by the river Musi,
‘Muara Djambi and Sungei Langsat on the river Hari, Muara
Takus and various other sites on the Kampar Kanan,
Korintji, Menangkabau and some other places in West
Sumatra, and last, but not the least, the vast and interesting
groups of ruins in the northern part of Central Sumatra—the
Padang Lawas region. The description that he gives of the
various antiquarian remains found in the above localities—
such as numerous terracotta. objects, stone and bronze
sculptures, architectural fragments and ruins of | brick
shrines, and inscriptions—is ‘full and interesting; it will serve

“i

ss eee ', eee

eg
NOTICES OF BOOKS 73

as an incentive to other researches in this field of Indonesian
archaeology in the collection of materials that will enhance
our knowledge of the island’s past. The illustrations, though
necessarily limited in number, are yet very much represen-
tative in character and include some very fine stone and
bronze images cf the Buddhas and Bodhisattvas, Siva and
Visnu figures in the same materials, the fine image of the
Bhairava—probably a portrait of king Adityavarman as the
demon Ksetrajfia Wigesadharani—from Sangei Langsat, the
ruined brick structures and the very interesting sculptural
and architectural objects found in the Padang Lawas region;
these show the remarkable progress that was made in the
domain of art by the people of Sumatra. On the specimens
of plastic arts which were discovered by him in Padang
Lawas the author remarks, ‘From the specimens available,
however, one may draw the conclusion that the Hindoo-Batak
sculptors and workers in bronze were as great masters in
their craft as were their colleagues in Java.’ This remark
can be fully endorsed if we look at the fine illustrations
which are incorporated in his book. The bronze figures of
Siva, Visnu, Buddha, Lokeévara and Maitreya in the valley
of the river Musi. are not only of exceptional iconographic
interest, but a good many of them also show unmistakable
impress of the Pala school of art in them; a reference to the
Maitreya, Lokeévara and Buddha figures reproduced in Plate
VIL of the volume under review will justify the above
remark. The dancing Heruka of Bahal Hl in Padang Lawas
(through some inadvertence of the printer the descriptive
labels of this figure and the Kala-makara head reproduced
in its proper right, in Plate XXXIV have been transposed),
not only from its iconography, but also from the artistic vigour
manifest in it, is distinctly reminiscent of the best days of the
Eastern school of early medizeval sculpture in India. The dan-
cing figures hybrid in character, that were collected by the
author from Pulo on the Panei in the Padang Lawas region,
were identified by the present reviewer as the Indonesian
counterparts of the Indian ganas in /GIS., Vol. IV, 1937,
10 ieee ay Na. |

74 NOTICES OF BOOKS

pp. 144-47. It is impossible in the present place to take ful-
ler stock of the wealth of iconographic and artistic material
collected in the pages of this book. It is, however, sufficient
to state that a perusal of its chapters and a careful scrutiny
of the excellent illustrations will enable one to add substan-
tially to his knowledge of Indonesian art and archaeclogy,

Messrs. E. J. Brill of Leiden are to be congratulated
on the sumptuous get-up of the volume and its very fine
reproduction.

Jimenpra Natu BANERJEA.

ee

SHORT NOTICES

An important announcement is made in the Academie
des Inscriptions et Belles-Letters, Compete Rendus des
Séances de l’ Année 1939 Bulletin de Juillet-Aout. From this
we learn that M. Coedés, Director of the French School of the
Far East, has just signed an archzeological agreement with
the Siamese Government permitting members of the French
School to excavate in the Siamese territory on the same
terms as those accorded to Siamese archaeologists excavat-
ing in French Indo-China. Thus Khmér archzology has
at last acquired the possibility of extending its researches
beyond the political frontier of the French possessions to
the whole territory of Ancient Cambodia.

In August, 1939, a small but select group of paintings
belonging to the collection of Mr. O. C. Gangoly, the well-
known connoisseur and historian of Indian art, was exhibited
in a number of cities in Ceylon at the instance of the Northern
Province Teachers’ Association of the Island. The collec-
tion was a representative one, containing specimens of all
schools of Indian painting from the early Buddhist times
down to the neo-Bengali school of Abanindra Nath Tagore
and Nanda Lal Bose. The exhibition was held at Jaffna
with such success that the Ceylon Soicety of Arts. was en-
couraged to invite it to Colombo where it was opened by
Sir Baron D. Jayatilaka, the then Prime Minister of Ceylon
and attended by H. E. the Governor and other notable
visitors. In connection with this last exihibition Dr. Andreas
Nell gave a talk on Indian Art, emphasizing the close connec-
tion of the ancient and medizeval art of Ceylon with that of
India. It is to be hoped that similar exhibitions will be held
in Ceylon in the coming years.

OBITUARY NOTICE

AUGUSTINE M, BOYER

Born at Varenes on the 20th November, 1850, Boyer was
educated at the Diocesan College at Nantes, at Saint Acheul.
Ordained as priest in 1884, he began to apply himself to
Oriental studies in 1891. His papers on the Indo-Scythian
problem (Nahapana et l’ere Saka, JA., 1897; Sur quelques
inscriptions de l'Inde, [bid., 1898; L” Epoque du Kaniska,
Ibid.,1990) attracted wide notice. His epigraphic, palaeogra-
phic and historical studies were crowned by the publication of
an admirable addition of the Niya Texts which he prepared
in collaboration with E. J. Rapson and E. Senart. The
works of Boyer remain as models of scrupulous science
without excluding either elegance of form or boldness of
expression.

(Based on an obtiuary notice published in J.A., tome

CCXXX, Avril-Juin 1938)

RAIL KANAK LAL. BARUA BAHADUR

Rai K. L. Barua Bahadur, C.LE., passed away in
Calcutta on the 8th of January 1940, and his death has
removed from our midst a keen and indefatigable research
scholar. He was for many years President of the Kama-
rapa Anusandhan Samiti?’ (Assam Research Society) and
editor of the Samiti’s Quarterly known as the Journal of
the Assam Research Society. . His numerous valuable con:
tributions to this research journal and his monumental histori-
cal work, namely, The Early History of Kamarépa have
brought to light the ancient history of Assam to a remarkable
extent. He was instrumental in the establishment of the
Assam Provincial Museum at Gauhati and was the Govern-
ment-nominated non-official President of this Museum.

The late Rai Bahadur was also an able and experienced
administrator. He was recruited to the Assam Provincial

caenainell

OBITUARY NOTICE "7

Service from the Bar and rose to the highest position by
dint of his merit. He was a Deputy Commissioner for years
together and retired as Director of Industries, Assam.
After retirement from Government service he was appointed
a Minister in 1929 and served as such for eight years. Indeed,
Assam has lost in him a very worthy son possessing the
qualifications of an eminent administrator and a profound
scholar.

[Based on a report by Mr. Prermadhar Chaudhury,
Curator, Assam Provincial Museum, Gauhati.]

Select Contents of Oriental Journals

Bijdragen tot de Taal,—Land—en Volk. van het Nederlandsch
Indie, deel 98, afl. 1-2, 1939

Studien zur Geschichte des Civaismus den Civaistischen
systeme in der Alt-Javaanischen literatur, By A. Zieseness.

Ibid, deel 98, afl. 3. 1939
Arya Tadah en de Gajah Mada-gelofte, By C. C. Berg.

On the basis of a new interpretation of Pararaton, 28,
23-28, the writer suggests that Gajah Mada had received the
support of Arya Tadah in the early years of his government.

Tijdschrift voor Indische Taal-, Landen Volkenkunde

deel 80, afl. 1, 1940

Was Piirnavarman van Taruma een saura? By Ir. J. L.
Moens.

According to the writer, the supreme god worship-
ped by Pirnavarman was the Sun-god; Pirnavarman and this
sun-cult are derived from Southern India; the Saura Salan-
kayanas are the forefathers of Pirnavarman’s dynasty: the
Salahkayanas being of Bharadvaja gotra; ‘‘the West-Javanese
bronze portrait in Amardvati style’’ appears to be a repre-
sentation of this seer and not of Siva, as suggested by
Stutterheim.

Kon. Bataviaasch Genootschap van Kunsten en
Wetenschappen, Jaarboek VI, 1939

List of acquisitions of the Royal Batavian Society for the
year 1938 under the following heads, (a) Prehistoric,
(b) Archeological, (c} Historical, ae Ceramical, (e) Musical
and (f) Ethnographical.

Oudheidkundigz arise 1938, utigegeven door het Kon.
Bataviaasch Genootschap van Kunsten
-en Wetenschappen.
Contains a report of the activities of the Society in
various directions. Among other points of interest should
—s

Smo, ee

SELECT CONTENTS OF ORIENTAL JOURNALS 79

‘be mentioned the survey of the reconstructed temple-com-

plex at Loro Jonggrang and the discovery of 12 copper-plates

dated between 868 and 880 A.D. The report contains 56

plates illustrating works-in-hand or completed, boundary

columns, gopuras, lingas, kalamakara designs, images, etc.

Djawa, Tijdschrift van het Java-Instituut, 19de Jaargang,
No. 6, Nov, 1939, Nieuw licht op Bali’s cultuur, By Dr.
R. Goris; Sanskrit op Bali. By Dr. C. Hooykaas.

Literatuur-Overzicht over het jaar 1938 van de Taal-,
Land= en Volk, en Geschiedenis van Nederlandsch-
Indie. By H. van Meurs.

‘Gives a list of articles and books about Netherlands-
India for 1938 under the following heads: (a) General,
(b) Java and Madura, (c) Sumatra and neighbouring countries,
(d) Borneo, (e}) Celebes and the Moluccas, (f) New Guinea,
(g) the Small Sunda Islands, (h) Netherlands West Indies.

De Heiligdommen van Palembang. By N. J. Krom.
Mededeelingen der Koninklijke Nederlandsche
Akademie van Wetenschappen, afd.

Letterkunde, Nieuwe Reeks
Deel I. no. 7,1 Plate.

A most important article on the history and culture of
Palembang based on archzeological, and literary data.
According to the writer, Palembang is Old Malayu. On its
western side was a Buddhist sanctuary reminiscent of South-
Indian architectural styles; on its eastern side was a siddha-
ydtraé sanctuary which was perhaps Indonesian at first but
was Hinduised after the 7th century, Sailendra and Javanese
influences were successively projected on the spot.

Javaansche Meisjesspelen en Kinderliedjes
Afl.4&5 By H. Overbeck

Detailed description of the games of Javanese maidens

and children with text, tanslations and numerous illustrations.

TH. B. Sapcan|

80 SELECT CONTENTS OR ORIENTAL JOURNALS
Journal of the Malay Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society
Vol. XVII, Part I (October 1939):

Introduction to the Study of Ancient times in Malay Peninsula
and the Straits of Malacca. By Roland Braddell (Section
HIl—Pre-Fu-nan, Section [V—Fu-nan).

Quarterly Journal of Mythic Society,
Vol. XXIX, No. 3

India and Old Ceylon. By V. Srinivasan.

Ibid. No. 4.
India and Old Ceylon (Contd.). By V. Srinivasan

Ibid, Vol, XXX, No. |
India and Old Ceylon (Contd.). By V. Srinivasan

Man in India, Vol. XVIII, No. 4 (Oct.-Dec. 1938)

Ugrian fishing implements and some Indian parallels. By
Biren Bonerjee.

Ibid, Vol. XIX, Nos. 2 and 3 (April-September 1939)

Ibid, No. 4 (October-December 1939)

An Enquiry into the racial elements in Baluchistan, Afghani-
stan and the neighbouring areas of the Hindu Kush. By
B. N. Datta.

Acta Orientalia, Vol. XVII, No. 2
Note on Saktism in Java. By W. F. Stutterheim.

Ostasiatische Zeitschrift
Heft 4-5, Vol. XIV, 1938
Streiflichter auf die Entwicklung des Bauplans Chinisischer
buddhististischer Kléster in ihrem Verhdltnis zum

Buddhististischer kultus. By Prip-Moller.
;
é
i
‘

BOOKS RECEIVED

The Greater India Society acknowledges with thanks the
receipt of the following books, pamphlets, periodicals, cic.
during the last six months,

BOOKS, PAMPHLETS, ETC.

Acht en Twintigste Jaarverslag 1938 (Kon. Vereeniging
Koloniaal Inst., Amsterdam).

Administration Report of the Archeological Department of
Travancore, 1113 M.E., Trivandrum 1939.

Annamalai University Calendar, 1939-42, Madras 1939.

Annual Report (1938-39) of the Bhandarkar Oriental
Research Institute, Poona 1939.

Annual Report (1938-39) of the Varendra Research Museum,
Rajshahi 1939.

Crucq, K. C. Het Onderzoek in 1938 naar ‘het graf van
Jan Piertz. Coen, (Report No. | of Nederlandsch-Indie
Arch. Survey), Batavia 1939.

Gravely, F. H., and C. Sivaramamurti, Guide to the
Archeological Galleries Madras 1939.

Do. Illustrations of Indian Sculptures mostly Southern,
Madras 1939,

Jaarboek (1939) of Kon. Bataviaasch Genootschap van
Kunst. en Wetenschappen, Batavia 1939.

Jaarverslag (1938-39) of Kern Institute, Leiden, 1939.

Krom, N. J., History of Netherlands-Indies by de Klerck
and Brusse (A review), Amsterdam 1939.

Do. De Heiligdommen van Palembang, Amsterdam, 1938.

Mehta, Ratilal, Pre-Buddhist India, Bombay 1939.

Meurs, H. van, Literatuur-Overzicht (1 938) van Neder-
landsch-Indie, Gravenhage 1939.

Overbeck, H., Javaansche Meapesengten en Kinderliedies,
afl. 4-5, Jogjakarta. |
Poet to Poet (Full text of correspondence between
Rabindranath Tagore and Yone Noguchi), Santiniketans

ir
Bz BOOKS RECEIVED

Sadananda, Swami, Angkor Park
Do. Kamboje Hindu-Sthapatya [in Bengali] (Indian Art in
Cambodia).
Tagore, Rabindranath, China and India, Santiniketan.
Tiwari, V.8., Hindi vanim Urdu [in Hindi] (Hindi versus
Urdu), Allahabad.
Woolley, Leonard Sir, A Report on the Work of the
Archeological Survey of India, 1939,
Yun-Shan, Tan, Cultural Interchange between India and
China.
Do. What is Chinese Religion?
Do. Modern Chinese History, Santiniketan.

PERIODICALS

Adyar Library Bulletin, (Brahma-vidya) Vols. Ill, pts. 3 and
4, Madras 1939.

Annals of the Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute, Vol.
XX, pts. | and 2, Poona 1939-40.

Bijdragen tot de Taal,—Land en Volk. van Nederlandsch-
Indié, deel 98, afl. 3 and 4, Gravenhage, 1939.

Buddha-Prabha, Vol. Nos. 3 and 4, Bombay 1939,

Bulletin of the Colonial Institute of Amsterdam, Vol. ll, No,
4; Vol. Il, No. 1, Amsterdam 1939.

Bulletin of the Deccan College Research Institute, Vol 1
No. I, Poona 1939,

Djéwa, 19 Jaarg., Nos. 5 and 6; 20 Jaarg., No. 1, Jogjakarta
1939-40.

Indian Historical Quarterly, Vol XV, Nos, 2-4, Calcutta 1939.

Journal of the Annamalai University, Vol. VIII, No. 3.
Annamalainagar 1939.
Journal of the Assam Research Society, Vol. VH, No. 2
Gauhati 1939.
Journal of Indian History, Vol. XVII, pts. 2-3, Madras 1939.
fournal of the Malay Branch of the R.A.S., Vol. XVII,
~ pt. 1. Singapore 1939,
Journal of the United Provinces Historical Society, Vol.
VIL, pt. 1, Vols, 9-113 Vol. XII, pt. 1, Lucknow 1935-39.

L

BOOKS RECEIVED 83

Man in India, Vel. XIX, Nos. 2-4, Ranchi 1939.

Nagari-Pracdrini-Patriba, Vol. 44, Nos. 2-3, Benares
1939-40,

Nagpur University Journal, Nos. 1-4, Nagpur 1935-38.

Quarterly Journal of the Muythie Society, Vol. XXX,
Nos. 1-3, Bangalore City 1939.40,

Tijdschrift voor Indische Taal,-Land- en Volk.,Vol. LXXIX,
afl. 3-4; Vol. LXXX, afl. 1, Batavia 1939-40,

Young East, Vol 8, No. 2, Tokyo 1939,

: NOTICE i
Subscribers and members aré respectfully
requested to remember that their subscriptions
end with the close of the current year. It is
earnestly boped that they will be good enough to
remit their subscriptions for the next year by the

end of December 1940. |

All contributions should be sent to

Manager. GREATER INDIA SOCIRTY,.
‘35, Badurbagan Row

THE JOURNAL

OF THE

GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

eee

Vou, VII duty, 1940. No, 2

The Suddhist Monastery of Fondukistan .~

By J. Hackin
(Concluded from JGIS., Vol. VI, No. 1)

NICHE E

The niche E has happily preserved an important portion
of its outer decoration and in particular the border of the
scroll-pattern in the form of a simple ornamental arcade
encircling the entrance of the niche (Fig. 21). The upper
portion of the arcade, in double bracket, should have
been surmounted by a spouting ribboned vase such as
we have already found at Bamiyan (Caves 1, Il, V & XI)
and to which we have alluded while considering the
niche C of the sanctuary of Fondukistan. The scroll-
patterns forming the frame (Fig. 22) offer this peculiarity of
having the extremities slightly dented; a detail which we
have already noted while studying the decoration of
certain caves of Bamiydn situated near the statue of the
Buddha of 53 metres (Caves 1, II, V & XI) (see Fig. 23). As
at Bamiyan the leaf-shaped ornaments are poor enough; the
volutes, however, are treated with greater ease. The
scroll-patterns are ‘surmounted by a thin line of flying birds
(parrots). The horizontal portion. of the scroll-patterns is
supported by a pilaster of squat. shaft. surmounted by

86 . J. HACKIN

a pseudo-Corinthian capital (Fig. 21), whose ornamentation
could be compared with those of the capitals supporting
the simple arcades of the caves already mentioned at
Bamiyan (Fig. 24).. At. Fondukistan the base of the pilaster
rests upon a basement which simulates ona small scale
a construction composed of | several | courses disposed in
festoon-like ornaments. Between the. pilaster and the
entrance of the niche appear two mura! paintings, a
Bodhisattva on the left of the statue at the base (Fig. 25)
and a Buddha on the right. The Bodhisattva of a clear
complexion and seated in the posture of royal relaxation
is figured. against an aureole of vivid red; the head slightly
bent towards the right is framed by a green nimbus of
water encompassed with white ; the right hand raised to
the height of the shoulder holds a blue lotus (utpala) ;

middle and little fingers of the left hand hold the neck of
a vase adorned with cabochons and provided with a spout.
The lower-part of the body is draped in a striped dhoii.
The torso is nude. ‘The ornaments partly resemble those
which we have had occasion to describe (devatés of niche
D). Nevertheless the ornaments which encircle the cabo-
chons of the bracelet-armlets and of the central motif of the
diadem are not joined together; they are independent of
one another. The ear-pendants which are circular are of
large dimensions. A chain formed of circles of beautiful
eyes goes upon the left shoulder and glides from the right
shoulder'upon the forearms. The blue lotuses appear in
the hair; a white ribbon: stretches out on the left of the
head of the Bodhisattva ; the. tracing of the nose appears
to be simplified in the extreme (a small hook). The eyes
with prominent pupils are ‘surrounded with black. The
group is specially. remarkable for the boldness of contrasted
styles; the cortours are traced with a very marked sharp-
ness and insistence ; the left arm which should -have rested
onthe knee i is treated with a certain clumsiness; it is well
bent but it rests without” support. This image continues,
inspite of ‘its’ clumsiness and an extreme .mannerism, the
oma F

jGIS.,

LS

soeerecerenen SRT

Fig. 25
iGIS.,,

THE BUDDHIST MONASTERY OF FONDUKISTAN 87

charm and grace of Indian models of the sixth century
(Magadha), and it could be compared with certain Tibetan
paintings specially of a White Tara. The sources of Indian
inspiration of these Tibetan images may obviously be
assigned to the same epoch as the paintings of Fondukistan
(7th century A.C.). The painting which is found on the
other side of the entrance of the niche depicts a Buddha
seated under the Bodhi tree; the subject is very much
damaged.

The excavation of niche E led to the discovery of two
statues placed against the same base of the niche; we
have here two figures, a man anda woman (Fig. 26) sepa-
rated by a pile of four cushions upon which they are lean-
ing. The heads have disappeared ; the right down-turned
leg of the male is in the vertical position, while the left
leg rests horizontally in a flat position; the torso remains
erect in such a way that the figure, for avoiding the fatigue
which such a posture could not fail to cause, has to rest a
portion of the weight of the torso upon his elbow sustained
by the pile of cushions. This posture is that which was
affected by certain kings of the Sassanide dynasty; a piece
of goldsmith’s work furnishes us with a characteristic illus-
tration of an analogous scene exhibiting likewise a pile of
cushions (bali$), six for the king, two only for the queen’®
but here the king is turned towards the queen who is found

13 Sarre, Die Kunst des alten Persien, Berlin, 1923, th. IIT:
Sasanidische Silber-schiissel, V Jahrhundert, Konig Jesdlegerd Il (438-478
n. Chr.) oder Konig Balasch (484-489) mit der Kénigin, Kunst-handel.
At present the piece. belongs to the Walters “Art Gallery, Baltimore.
See also on this subject the observations of Professor E. Herzfeld,
Khusrau Parwez und der Tag-i-Vastin, Archaeologische Mitteilungen
aus Tyan, Bd. IX, Hefe I, pp. 11g-121. The object is also repro-
duced with post-Sassanide dating in volume IV of the Survey of
Persian Art by A. Upham Pope and Pr ea 1938, Pl. 230, A
(with Bahram Gur and Sapete)

ae eee

88 J. HACKIN

on his right (Fig. 27). The king wears boots, which is also
the. case with Fondukistan. The vestment is a long and
well-adjusted tunic opened at the chest and provided with
a large tight collar. This tunic was ornamented with
circular medallions fringed with a row of large pearls. Inside
the .medallions are inscribed scarcely visible motifs of
birds and human mascarons (>). The whole of this deco-
ration accords with the. distinctly Iranian costume. A waist~
band made of cabochons encircled with pearls covers the
figure with particular tightness. The torso which widens
itself appears extremely stretched out. The trousers are
slightly folded. The tunic worn by the princely figure of
Fondukistan.resembles, through the style of vestment of
the kneeling personage, the bearer of a plate of offerings
represented at the end of the left lateral wall which
sheltered the Buddha of 53 metres.“* This vestment
clearly differs from the tunics with which are clothed the
figures of the donors disposed upon the left lateral wall and
upon the right and:left of the niche of the Buddha of 35
metres. Inthis last case the donors wear tunics with a
single facing or tunics without facing, upon which could be
seen the sort of shoulder-belts of which the straps are fixed
in the middle of a girdle placed over the body.® A similar
apparatus was current at the epoch of Shapar II (309-379
A.C.) and of Shapiirlll'® (333-388 A.C.), that is, anteriorto the
representations at Fondukistan and at the niche of the great
Buddha at Bamiyan. The female figure with harmonious
forms, thin waist, round shoulders, opulent chest, is clearly
Indian in aspect ; the examination of the ornaments enforces

14 J. Hackin et: ge Cat Aowvale gee cacies archéologiques
@ Bamiyan, Pl. XXVIII. ee

15 A. et Y. Godard et eh acer Les antiquités bouddbiques
de Bamiyan, Pl. XXII.

16 See the representation of Shapiir Il and Shapiir IT at Taq-i-
Bostan, J. Hackin et } Carl, haba bes erie aes au col de
Khair Kbenebis pl. Bc ook,
ooo

IGIS., 1940

Ane
THE BUDDHIST MONASTERY OF FONDUKISTAN 89

this first impression. These are the necklaces of pearls
to which is joined a long chain of pearls to which again
were fixed on the outer side the circular cabochons sur-
rounded with pearls. The bracelets, double at the wrist,
are composed of pearls. A light scarf covers the shoul-
ders- The lower part of the body is draped in a dhoii.
The torso appears to be nude. We do not notice at
the armpit the light folds which appear on the two
busts which we shall have occasion to describe. Under
the figure of the princely personage was found a funerary
urn (Fig. 28) containing besides the ashes two drachniae
with the effigy of the Sassanide king Chosroés Parwez
(590-627 A. C.), a small unidentified coin and several
bronze coins of a Sar of Gharjistan’’ (Fig. 29). Another
funerary urn enveloped in a white silk stuff without
ornaments, was concealed in the turning of the wall
(lateral right wall of the niche) (Fig. 28). The paintings
which adorned the base of the niche had suffered much.
Two female figures, one with a clear complexion, the other
with a dark skin, appeared to come out of the background
ona seed-bed of four leaves. The circular ear-pendants
appeared large. The white female wears a striped dhoti
(Fig. 30). Both figures have the nude torso. The breasts
are particularly developed. The style is clearly Indian.
Fixed from one part to another against the lateral right
and left walls appeared the female busts as coming out
above a drapery (Fig. 31). The original blue and red
colour and the light folds appearing at the height of the

17 “The word Sar is mentioned by Mussalman authors as being
the title of the king of Gharjistan, a region which, according to
Tabari, formed a portion of the empire of the Hephthalites.”” Cited
by J. D. Morgan, Manuel de numismatigzue orientale, de I? antiquité
et du Moyen-Age, publication achevée sous la direction de K. J.
Basmadjian, fs Ill, p. 453. It should be ‘noted that the pieces with
the effigy of Khosroés If and of the Jar. of chet bear in
addition the marks struck to the bodkin. -

go J. HACKIN

armpits:show that these torsos were not nude but dressed
in a light and transparent stuff upon which was laid out
the chain of a type identical with what we have mentioned
while describing the princely female figure. The group is
_ distinctly Indian. .The drapery. marking the transition be-
tween the surface of the wall and the bust treated in high
relief does not represent a new element for us; we have
already observed it at Bamiyan (Group of Caves C); but
at Bamiyan only the trace of the bust survives, the drapery
being still visible (Fig. 32). It is evident that. the momen-
tary and apparitional character of these figures is opposed to
_ the static and congealed character of the princely couple;
this drapery so much reduced should apparently be derived
from the thick: draperies representing veritable clotures
which appear on certain Graeco-Buddhist  bas-reliefs,
specially upon a frieze of Buddhas and their assistants found
at Sikri and published by M. A. Foucher."® At Sikri the
figures appear behind the drapery and partly concealed by
this drapery. At Fondukistan the drapery is treated like a
veritable support.

NICHE K

The niche K originally formed one ‘of the corridors of
access to the sanctuary; in walling up the corridor a niche
had feet constructed which was not very deep. Some
fragments. of statues and vestiges of mural. paintings were
there brought to light. On the lateral right wall were found
some. particularly interesting figures of the lunar and solar
divinities (Fig. 33). The lunar: deity with haggard face
appeared on thé. left; he wears a diadem with three crescents
such as we have observed at Bamiyan. The nimbus is
emphasised by a crescent. _ The circular ear-pendants are
ornamented with. pearls. ‘The. black and long hair rests
upon the shoulders. The long. tunic with double facing is
as attached | to the body: by a black belt ornamented

» AGBG, 1, fig: 136.
ns
ew
ple
s
I
E
i ~
¥ a
com)
bb
q
s
Nn
pwr
i eo)
i

-

i

sap om Psion ern

THE BUDDHIST MONASTERY OF FONDUKISTAN 91

with cabochons lined with white; the scabbard of the long
straight sword is also ornamented with medallions. A
small round buckler is attached to the left arm. We must
finally mention the gaiters of tiger-skin (?) adorned with
a border of oval ornaments. The moustached solar deity
has a nimbus of red disc; the upper part of the face has
disappeared. He wears an armour protecting the torso;
this portion of the armour is composed | of ‘metal-plaques
in the form of lozenges; the lower part is formed of a
veritable fabric of metallic scales protecting the abdomen;
the lower vestment terminating like a round apron is visible
and covers the trousers. The boots are black. The straight
sword has a richly adorned scabbard. A sort of knob-
stick is held by the left arm. The two figures are already
very Central Asian and it is interesting to recall the
lunar deity with the haggard face who was found at the
summit of the niche of the Buddha of 35 metres at Bamiyan.
Among the fragments of statuettes brought to light in
clearing the niche K, we must mention very specially a
head of marked originality (Fig. 34).

[ FRANSLATED BY U.N. GHOSHAL) |

Hittite People and Language*
By BATAKRISHNA GHOSH

Sanskrit has long been regarded as the oldest Indo-
European language, but now the pride of place must go
to Hittite which Sommer has declared to be an “Indo-
European language in its flexional structure.”’ The Indo-
European character of this language is not at all so obvious
in other respects, and Sturtevant has actually suggested that
Hittite should rather be regarded as a cognate to the
original Indo-European and not to the Indo-European
dialects collectively or severally... But it is precisely the
grammatical structure which decides the afhliation of any
particular language, for both phonology and vocabulary are
to such a degree susceptible to extraneous influence that
they may change beyond recognition within a comparatively
short time, and syntax being concerned more with universal
ideas than with particular forms can hardly serve as a
criterion in this respect. Yet the evidence of phonology,
vocabulary and syntax cannot be summarily dismissed as
valueless if they all point in the same direction, particularly
in the direction suggested by the flexional structure, as
in the case of Hittite. |

Hittite history will perhaps never be fully reconstructed,
but it is definitely established to-day that for many centuries
the Hittites held a mighty empire in. Western Asia, and
under Mur&ili8 | these hardy Cappadocian mountaineers
actually conquered Babylonia about the middle of the 18th
century B. C., thus putting an.end to the dynasty of

* This paper is a chapter of my forthcoming book “Survey of
Indo-European Dhialects.’” Students who might care to read this
paper are expected to have first read my “Linguistic Introduction to
Sanskrit” published by the Indian Research Institute, Calcutta.

ORR ne =

HITTITE PEOPLE AND LANGUAGE 93

Hammurapi. The most important events of the later
Hittite empire are the battle of Kade’ between king
Muwatallif and Ramses Il of Egypt (1305 B.C.), and
Hattuail’s treaty with the same Pharaoh in the twenty-first
year of the latter’s reign (1289 B.C.). The great Hittite
emperor Suppiluliumas’ was a contemporary of Pharaoh
Amenophis III (c. 1419-1384) and outlived also his successor
(c. 1384-68).

In the earliest period the Hittites seem to have been
dividedinto a number of city-states, the most important
of them being Zalpa, Neda and KuisSar—each of which
attained supremacy one after another and was undoubtedly
influenced by the incredibly early Assyrian commercial
settlements in Cappadocia. At the next stage the hege-
mony seems to have passed permanently to the kingdom
of Hatti: the third Hatti ruler MurSiliS I actually conquered
Babylon but could not retain it for a jong time. This
sudden expansion seems however to have been detrimental
to the Hittite empire, for there followed a long period of
anarchy which was put an end to by the wise ruler Telepinué
about 1650 B.C. The history of the older Hittite empire
ends abruptly at this point. After almost a complete blank
of two centuries the Hittites again emerge on the stage of
history-~this time to fight against Mitanni, the most power-
ful State founded by the Hurrians in northern Mesopotamia.
The great age of Hittite. history was reached under the
rule of Suppiluliuma’ (1395-55 B.C.) who made the con-
quered Mitanni-kingdom a buffer state against the rising
power of ASSur. But danger came from the quarter
whence it was least expected: it came from the country of
Ahbhijawa on the western fringe of the Peninsula, and
from Arzawa in the south. There was a mighty coalition
of Ahhijawa, Arzawa and other countries of Asia Minor
against ‘the Hittite king Arnuwandaé’ (Gs 1230-15), This was
the beginning of the end to all appearance. The state
which even after Suppiluliumad - was undoubtedly the
greatest power in western Asia. for. more. than a century,

2

94 BATAKRISHNA GHOSH

thus came to an abrupt and inglorious end, and so com-
pletely disappeared from history that practically nothing
was known about its people until quite in recent times
modern archaeologists and philologists made them directly
speak to us.

The Hittite lanauseel though not its name, was dis-
covered by Knudzon in 1902 from two letters excavated
at Tell-el-Amarna. These are usually called the Arzawa-
letters, because one of them is from Amenophis Ill of
Egypt to Tarhundaraba, the king of Arzawa. The scanty
material of these two letters was enough to convince
Knudzon that the language in which they were composed
was Indo-European. It was possible to decipher these
letters only because they are full of Sumero-Akkadian ideo-
grammes which left littl doubt as to the general tenor
of their contents. Abundant material for systematic study
of the language was however soon available when
Winckler after his epoch-making excavations at Boghaz-
koi unearthed the State-archives of the Hittite emperors.
Yet little progress was made in Hittite studies, for Winckler
fell ill and died (1913), and after his death the Boghaz-kéi
records were relegated to Assyriologists in consideration of
the cuneiform script in which they are written. But the
Assyriologists could not make much headway even though
they could easily read the records and had at their disposal
fragments of Akkado-Hittite bilingualtexts. Yet, after all,
it was the Assyriologist Hrozny who in 1914 for the first
time fully deciphered some Hittite texts, and even the
warring world was startled by his: announcement that the
language deciphered by him is Indo-European. Since
then Hittite studies have progressed by leaps and bounds.

It has been said above that Assyriologists could easily
read the Hittite texts written in cuneiform script. This state-
mentisto be taken literally, for even now there are differences
of opinion as to how particular signs should be read. The
Hittites had adopted the Akkadian. cuneiform system for
writing their language, but that system consists of a number

HITTITE PEOPLE AND LANGUAGE - 95

of syllabic signs: The sounds constituting syllables had
not been isolated by the Akkadians, so that the Hittites
using their script had to take recourse to various make-
shifts when any combination of the syllabic signs at their
disposal could not give an accurate picture of the sounds
they wished to express. And the Akkadian syllabic signs
were such that many common sounds or sound-combina-
tions could not be expressed by them, although the Hittites
used no less than one hundred and thirty-seven such signs.
On the other hand, many words could be, and used to be,
written in various ways by means of these borrowed syllabic
signs

First and foremost, it is impossible to express initial or final
double-consonance, or tri-consonance, by means of the Ak-
kadian syllabary used by the Hittites—for the simple reason
that no sign of this syllabary begins or ends with double
consonance. This serious flaw in the system had however
no significance for Sumero-Akkadian, which had no con-
sonant-groups at the beginning or end of a word and no
groups of more than two consonants in the interior ofa
word. But that was not at all the case with Hittite. Un-
etymological and unpronounced vowels had therefore to
be frequently introduced by the Hittites into the graphic
forms of words of their language. Thus the prefix pra
(<I. E, *pro) could not be expressed in Hittite writing be-
cause it begins with the consonant-group pr. The graphic
form of Hittite pra is in fact pa-ra-a (three signs). Mute
vowels had to be introduced into written forms also when
words ended with consonant-groups (e.g. e-e§-ta for &st) or
contained groups of three consonants (e.g. li-in-ik-ia for
linkt). Itis clear that no homogeneous system of spelling
could be maintained in this state of things. Thus the word
tametaz, for example, could be written ta-me-ta-az, tam~e~
ta-az, ta-me-it-az, etc. The first problem confronting the
student of Hittite is therefore to determine the non-
phonetic pleonastic vowels present in the graphic form
of almost every word. Moreover, the Hittites were

ncoaaisaeiann,
96 BATAKRISHNA GHOSH

averse to beginning a word only with a vowel-sign or a
syllabic sign beginning with a vowel. In writing words
beginning with a vowel, it was their custom to use both
the vowel-sign and a syllabic sign beginning with the same
vowel; thus a-ak-te-ni=akteni,u-un-na-i=unai. It will be
clear from this that even though the script was known
it was by means an easy job to determine the phonetic
values of particular written forms.

Hittite borrowings from the Akkadians were not confined
merely to the syllabic symbols discussed above. Akka-
dian words were freely used by the Hittites as ideogrammes,
and that for some of the commonest words of their lan-
guage. We do not even know the Hittite word for ‘king’,
for it is always represented ideographically by Sumero-
Akkadian LUGAL. For the same reason, the Hittite words
for ‘god’ and ‘son’ are yet unknown, for the Hittites used
in their documents only the Akkadian graphic forms of
these words, which they however doubtless read not as the
Akkadians themselves would read them, but according
to the sound-values of the corresponding Hittite words.
But the Akkadians themselves used Sumerian word-symbols
ideographically in their language. Thus sometimes we find
beside the phonetically-written Hittite word also the corres-
ponding Sumerian and Akkadian forms—as, for instance,
Hit. ki-eS-Sar, Sumerian SU and Akkadian QA.TU, all
pronounced kesar and meaning “‘hand’’,* In writing their
own language the Akkadians often added Akkadian phone-
tic endings to Sumerian ideogrammes, and this too was
faithfully copied by the Hittites, to whom however not only
the Sumerian part but the whole of the word (Sum. ideo-
gramme+Akk. phonetic ending) was an ideogramme.
Thus beside the above-mentioned forms SU and
QA.TU. a Sumero-Akkadian mixed form like SU.TU was

* In the system of transcription now universally accepted, the
Sumerian ideogrammes: are ‘Feptesented by erect capitals and the
Akkadian ones by slanting capitals. ms
‘F

Be ones ot ee

HITTITE PEOPLE AND LANGUAGE 97

also possible in Hittite writing. The Sumerians
employed in their writing also a number of determinatives,
usually prefixed, which however were never pronounced,
their function being merely to modify the meaning of the
word governed by it in a particular way. Thus the sign
SAL ‘woman’ may be prefixed to the designation of a
woman's occupation. Along with the Sumerian ideo-
grammes the Hittites borrowed from the Akkadians also
these non-phonetic Sumerian determinatives, Thus the
determinative UZU, meaning ‘part of the body’, may be
prefixed to SU ‘hand’, In transcribed Hittite texts these
determinatives are written with raised capital letters, e.g.,
"SU, the whole complex, read as kesar by Hittites them-
selves, meaning “the hand which is a part of the body”’.

This is the system of older Hittite writing which, apart
from the Sumero-Akkadian ideogrammes without any
phonetic Hittite equivalents, can be read, though in many
cases we are far from certain as to how they actually used
to be read by the Hittites. For it is not always safe to
assume for Hittite the same phonetic value which the
syllabic signs enjoyed in the parent Akkadian language.
Thus the Akkadian sign for z (sonant dental sibilant) was
used by the Hittites to represent the fricative ts, and
Akkadian § in their language assumed the value of s. The
value of Akkadian h in Hittite is still a matter of dispute.
The exact timbre of Akkadian vowels in Hittite will perhaps
never be determined, and for their quantity too it is any-
thing but certain that they were long in all those cases
where they are written double; cf., e.g. e-ed-zi=Skt. as-ti
<I.-E, *es-ti— Later Hittites, from about 800 B.C.,
began to use a system of hieroglyphs for writing their
language. The clue to this “bieroglyphie Hittite’? has not
yet been found. ,

In the field of vocalism Hittite ranges itself definitely on
the side of the western Indo-European languages, for
unlike Indo-Iranian it retains the vowel e distinct from a;
cf. Hit, esmi, Gr. eimt, Lith. estab Skt. as-mi; Hit. et- “to

08 BATAKRISHNA GHOSH

tr’ : Skt. ad; Hit. seszi: Skt. sasti “‘sleeps’’; Hit. nepi¥,
Lat. nebu(la): Skt. ndbhas; Hit. wek-: Skt. vaé- (cf. Gr.
hekén); Hit. eshar, Gr. éar:Skt. asrk; Hit. mekis, Gr.
mégas: Skt. mah- etc. On account of the imperfect
system of writing it is not possible to determine whether
].-E. & had retained its length in Hittite; both the roots *es-
(Skt. as-) and *és- (Skt. ds-), for instance, are written in the
same way in Hittite.—I.-E. a remains unchanged in Hittite.
Cf. Hit. apa: Skt. apa, Gr. apé ; Hit. harkis ‘white,’ Skt.
arjuna, Gr. argés, etc. As the written forms afford no clue
as to the length of the vowels, it is impossible to say
whether I.-E. aretained its length in Hittite. Its quality
at all events remained unchanged. Cf. Hit. stapi: Skt.
sthapayati; Hit. tayezi ‘steals’: Skt. tayu, etc.—The third
normal vowel ¢ becomes a in Hittite, which in this respect
may therefore be said to side with Indo-Iranian: Hit.
hastai: Skt. asthi but Gr. ostéon ; Hit. pra, Skt. pra, but
Gr, pré, etc. L.-E. long6 appears as a in Hittite, which
may, be read long, e.g. Hit. laman (with dissimilation)
‘name’: Lat ndmen. Both the extreme vowelsi and a
remain unchanged in Hittite. The Skt. primary personal
endings -mi -si -ti and -nti have théir exact counterparts
in Hit. -mi, -si -zi and-nzi; the Indo-Iranian imperative
endings -tu and -ntu have outside parallels only in Hit.; cf.
further Hit. yuakan: Skt. yugam, Hit. or Skt. jdnu, Hit.
nu: Skt. nu, etc.

In dealing with the decencat of the easily contrac-
tible [.-E. diphthongs in the various dialects we have to be
doubly cautious. For when comparing a dialectical form
with the corresponding basic J.-E. form, it is not at all safe
to equate straightway an I.-E. diphthong contained in the
latter with whatever may seem to occupy its place in
the former, for the two sounds may be of different ablaut-
grades. It is assumed, for want of anything better, that if
_ the forms compared are of the same grammatical category,
then also the roots contained in them will be of the same
ablaut-grade, This is no doubt probable, but still far from
HITTITE PEOPLE AND LANGUAGE 96

certain. We can be tolerably certain only where we have
the additional testimony of accent. But of Hittite accent
we know nothing. The following treatment of [.-E. diph-
thongs in Hittite should therefore be regarded as tentative.
Hit. lukzi, for instance, certainly corresponds to Skt. rocate.
But it cannot be safely assumed on the basis of this and
similar etymologies that Hittite u corresponds to Skt. o
{(<<I.-E. eu), for the Hittite word may contain the reduced-
grade form of the root which appears in its normal grade in
the Skt. word.

All short i-diphthongs become e (often written i) i
Hittite asin Skt. Thus the L-E. medial ending -iai (= Gr.
-fai) in third person singular appears as -te in
Hittite. Itistrue that this ending often appears also as
-ti, but this must be an _ orthographical make-shift
of which we have seen so much above, for I.-E.
ti phonologically becomes isi (written zi) in Hittite.
Examples like Hit. kemanz (written  gi-im-ma-an-za)
‘winter’ corresponding to Skt. hemanta, Gr. kheima and
Hit. keta ‘lies’ corresponding to Skt. gete, Gk. ketiai conclu-
sively prove the transformation of I.-E. ei into e in Hittite.
The same change for I.-E. of is proved by the Hittite
pronominal exclitics me, ie, corresponding to Skt. me, te
and Gr. mot to?,—Short u-diphthongs on the other hand
become u in Hittite, but it is not impossible that this u was
an open sound approaching o; cf. Hit. lukzi: Skt, rocate,
Gr. leukés; Hit. arnuzi: Skt. rnéti. Comparison of gram-
matical forms of similiar categories seems to suggest that
I.-E. long i-diphthongs have become ai and I.-E. long u
diphthongs have become au in Hittite. This is the general
position also of Skt.

The semi-vowels on the whole are well-preserved in
Hittite. Thus % in yukan: Skt. yugam, yatari: Skt. ydti,
etc. (Intervocalic % however is often lost as also in many
other I.-E. dialects.) The same is the case with I.-E. u, cf.
Hit. watar: Eng. water; Hit. wasi ‘buys’: Skt. vas-nayati;
Hit. weti: Skt. vai-sara, Lat. vetuss Ets woke: Skt. nhs

100 BATAKRISHNA GHOSH

Not only I.-E. r but also r seems to be preserved in Hittite,
though the graphic forms are always misleading. Variant
orthographic forms of the same word however often clearly
indicate the syllabic character of the r in question. Thus
the three variant forms pa-ap-ri-i8-zi, pa-ap-ra-as-zi and
pa-ap-par-as-zi can but be imperfect representations of
paprszi- Inthe same way, Hit. parku and Artasumara
seem to correspond to Skt. bhrgu and Rtasmara respective-
ly. But it is important to remember in this connection that
the syllabic r, not only in Hittite, but in other [.-E. dialects
as well, might have been preceded or followed, or both,
by a feeble vowel. On the analogy of syllabic r, a syllabic
l too is assumed to have existed in Hittite, but the evidence
for it is far from satisfactory.—Ablaut-relations between
congeneric Hittite forms being largely blurred through
defective writing, itis hardly possible to draw a definite
conclusion as to the existence or otherwise of syllybic nasals
in Hittite. Yet I.-E. m seems to have become ain Hit. (as
in Skt.), for Skt. famas- is met there by tas- <ims-. I.-E.
n on the other hand developed into an; thus Hit. anzas
“‘we,us’: 1-E, *ns: Skt. nas; the Hit. medial ending -anta
in third person plural corresponds to Skt. -ate <*I.-E.
“nial.

Hittite throws welcome light on the vexed problem of
Indo-European gutturals. It is usually assumed that the
original I.-E. possessed three series of gutturals (see my
Linguistic Introduction to Sanskrit, p.9), but the claim of
pure velars to be considered as. an independent series of
gutturals rests on a very slender basis indeed. The chief
problem for us in this regard is to decide whether the
original J.-E. possessed’ a series of labio-velars distinct
from the palatals, i.e., whether the earliest Indo-Europeans
could and did pronounce a labio-velar immediately before
a palatal vowel and a palatal immediately before a guttural
vowel. Present-day speakers of I.-E. dialects cannot pro-
nounce such sound-combinations. Would it then be proper.
to ascribe such hypothetical -sound-combinations to the
HITTITE PEOPLE AND LANGUAGE 10%

original Indo-European? Would it not be more advisable
to assume that although already in the pre-Indo-European
epoch the gutturals were split up into labio-velars and pala-
tals, the former were yet invariably followed by guttural
vowels and the latter invariably by palatal ones, and that
only at the later Indo-European stage, through analogical
transfer perhaps, palatal vowels began to take position also
after labio-velars and guttural vowels after palatals? This
is what is suggested by the Hittite gutturals. In Hittite, kw
represents |.-E. kw, and there is nothing to show that the
w of this combination was not a full-fledged semi-vowel,
which as usual, often changed into a. Thus Hit. ku-is: Lat.
guis <1L.-E.*k*is; Hit. Ru-na-an-zi (Runanzi):Skt. ghnanti
<I.-E.*s”hnenti. Akkadian signs for ku, kur always stand
for fully independent syllables, and it is highly improbable
that Hittite scribes in giving the graphic form of the descen-
dant of I.-E. k” in their language would have used those
signs if the sound in question was really different from kw.
If the sound k” was actually present in Hittite we should
rather expect ku-wa-na-an-zi instead of ku-na-an-zi as the
graphic form of the Hittite representative of. ].-E. *g”hnenti.
This is however never found. It is therefore permissible
to assume with Sturtevant (§ 54a) that the labio-velars as
such were a later develo pment of the Indo-European state,
because their existence as separate independent sounds
before the parent Indo-European language separated from
the basic Indo-Hittite is yet to be proved.

The above and other examples show that Hit. kw (ku
before consonants) corresponds to |.-E. k”. But the
Hittite sound corresponding to I.-E. g” is w, I.-E. gu being
met by ku in Hit.; cf. Hit. wem-: Skt. gam- (g"em-), but
Hit. kutar ‘neck’: Lat. guttur ‘throat’ (. -E. gut-). Hit. w
and ku correspond to L.-E. gh. Thus Hit. war- ‘to burn’:
Skt. har- (Gr. ther-més)<I. Ee 3 g*her-, but Hit. kwen: Skt.
han- <1.-E.* g*hen-.

[.-E. palatal occlusives had ‘not baat spirantised in
Hittite as in the Satdm-languages and in this respect too

3

102 BATAKRISHNA GHOSH

Hittite is to be ranged with the western I.-E. dialects.
Thus Hit. keta, Gr. ketiai: Skt. gete; Hit. wekzi: Skt.
vasti (<vaés-ti); Hit. kartis: Lith. szirdis (connected with
Skt. Ard-). A non-palatal pure velar is to be found in
Hit. lukate: Skt. rocate (cf. Gr. leukdés). The I.-E inchoa-
tive sufhx -skh- appears as -sk- Hittite, as is proved by
the examples Hit. arskezi: Skt. rcchati, and Hit. uskezi:
Skt. ucchati. ].-E. @ appears as Rin Hit. Thus Hit. Renu:
Avestan Ynu, Skt. ja@nu; Hit. yukan: Skt. yugam; Hit.
hark-is: Skt. arj-una, etc. J|.-E. gh too is represented by
the same k, as in Hit. kemanz: Skt. hemanta, Gr. kheima;
Hit. parkus: Skt. brhant-, Avestan 6®r®zant; Hit. talukaes:
Skt. dirgha, Gr. dolikhos. .

As for the dentals, I.-E. ¢ is retained in Hittite excepting
before palatal vowels where it becomes is (written z); thus
[.-E. *es-enti, Skt. santi: Hit. asanzi. This change was
carried on further in non-Doric Greek dialects which chang-
ed [.-E. fi into si. L-E. d was hardened into tin Hittite.
Thus |.-E; *ed- “‘to eat’? : Hit. ef-; Hit. tek-: Skt. dig-; Hit.
taru: Skt. ddra; Hit. watar: Gr. hiidér. |.-E. dh too appears
as tin Hit., e.g. Hit. it: Skt. tht, Gr. thi; Hit. wine: Skt.
aidhar, Gr. otthar, etc.—Various sounds have developed
in the I.-E. dialects as the result of the collision of dentals.
.-E. -it- is retained in Skt., but in Greek it normally
becomes -st- and in Lat. -ss-. Before the Hittite language
was discovered it was therefore necessary to assume that
L-E. tt had at first given rise to tt. Hittite proves that
this assumption was correct. Thus I.-E. *et-ti (*ed-ti):
Hit. ezzi, which is but a defective writing for ets-tsi.

Hittite not having at its disposal any means of indicat-
ing the sound b, and all aspirated sounds being apparently
de-aspirated in Hittite, there is but the sole sound p in
Hittite to represent the whole I.-E. labial series. As for
Hit. p=1.-E. p, we may consider Hit. pasi (<*patsi
<*pati): Skt. pati. ‘drinks’; Hit. stapi: Skt. sthapayati,
‘etc. Examples of Hit. p=I.-E. bh are also quite unambi-
guous : Hit. nepis: Skt. nabhas, Hit. krap-: Skt. grabh- etc.
HITTITE PEOPLE AND LANGUAGE 103

It will be clear from above that in writing at least the
Hittites made no distinction between ¢ and d, kand g,
p and b. But does it justify the assumption that instead
of four occlusives in each series the Hittites had only one?
The facts however are not so simple. It is true that ia
and da, ka and ga are practically interchangeable in
Hittite writing. But we have also to note that the Hittites
wrote almost exclusively ti and ki, and very rarely di and
gi. The imperative ending on the other hand is mostly
written du and rarely tu. It would therefore be hazardous
to declare that the Hittites, like the speakers of many non-
Indo-European languages, had only one dental, one pala-
tal, etc. It is not impossible that what to us appears as
the simplification of I.-E. system of occlusives was in fact
nothing but an uncompleted sound-shift.—Hittite h is a
problem by itself. Examples like Hit. harkis: Gr. argés,
Hit. hastai: Skt. dsthi, Hit. hwekzi: Skt. odkti, etc. seem
to suggest that in some cases at least the Hit. h is unety-
mological. In the written forms of these and other words
the Hittite h seems to indicate a strong expiratory accent

‘and nothing more. In modern German, for instance, which

is characterised by a very pronounced expiratory accent, an
unetymological h is distinctly heard at the beginning of
many words commencing with a vowel.

In the field of nominal flexion we have to note first of
all that Hittite has completely given up the feminine gender
and retains only faint traces of the dual number. lt is
perhaps unwise to say that the Hittite dropped the feminine
gender, for we donot know whether the feminine gender
had been developed in the basic language before Hittite
separated from it. It is generally admitted—and that on good
grounds—that the feminine gender was a later development
in the original Indo-European. Because the feminine
gender primarily conveys a negative idea and thus must
have been developed later than its positive counterpart.
When we say ‘‘man’’ we include in our idea not only men
but women also, ¢.g-, ‘‘man is mortal’’.. But if we say

104 BATAKRISHNA GHOSH

instead ‘‘woman is mortal’, it might indirectly suggest that
men are immortal! From the veiw-point of linguistic
psychology therefore the feminine gender is a purely nega-
tive idea, for its function consists in specifying for a parti-
cular group its non-identity with a larger species, and the
degree of specification thus achieved need not have been
enough to make an independent grammatical category of
this specified group.—It is otherwise with the dual number.
The very existence of a grammatical dual number shows
that the early Indo-Europeans could not abstract the univer-
sal out of particulars so long as the number of such pari-
culars was confined totwo. But they were able to abstract
the universal if there were three particulars present—after
which specification was no longer necessary. That is
why the plural number begins with three in [.-E. languages.
It is also natural to expect that the more primitive an I.-E.
tribe, the greater will be its need for the dual number. The
Hittites as the oldest known I.-E. tribe therefore may be
expected to have retained it. But they have not. Like
most other |.-E. languages, Hittite too, with a few doubtful
exceptions (Sturtevant § 184), has done away with the
grammatical dual number. |
In case-system Hittite is not so conservative as Skt.
Excluding vocative, which in Hittite has coincided with
nominative, Hittite shows six distinct cases, namely, nomi-
native, accusative, instrumental, dative, ablative and geni-
tive. Formantically the Hittite | instrumental developed
out of original ablative and it is no wonder therefore that in
Hittite syntax .ablative and instrumental are often inter-
changeable. A similar syncretism | is to be observed also
with regard to original dative and locative: in Hittite
the original locative, though retaining its own ending, has
been functionally completely. merged in the dative.—The
nominative singular of every masculine stem ends in s, e.g.,
ata-s, supi-s, etc., and the. corresponding ending in accusa-
tive is n<m. Neuter a-stems take the ending n<m in nom.-
acc. 8g. Even 1 more characteristically Indo-European are the
HITTITE PEOPLE AND LANGUAGE 105

neuter r/n stems, e.g-, nom. watar: gen. wetenas. ‘“‘The
gen. sing normally ends in -as whatever the stem final
may be’’ (Sturtevant). Thus from tuzis and asus the forms
in gen. sg. are tuziyas and asuwas respectively. These are
evidently forms of the flexion forte, lingering traces of
which may be found in the oldest Skt. (see my Linguistic
Introduction to Ski., p. 132). The dative sg. of a-stems
usually ends in e: formantically the forms in question are
nothing but locatives. The ablative sing. ends in -z, which
is perhaps the nil-grade form of the JI.-E. ablative
suffix -tos. In instr. sg. Hittite a-stems end in -et:this
is to be directly connected with the I.-E. abl. ending -ed
(cf. Skt. page-dt, Lat. faciluméd). The ending in nom.
pl. masc. is -es, and thus in complete agreement with
Sanskrit; but the acc. pl. masc. ends in -us.—Indo-
European dialects are sometimes divided into two groups
according as the dual and plural endings in instr., dat.
and abl. begin with bh or m {see my Linguistic Introduction
to Skt., p. 16). Hittite however shows no trace of these
consonantal endings, which therefore should have been of
later origin. —In Hit. pronominal flexion, as in that of
other I.-E. languages, there is a standing interplay of
various stems within the same paradigm, and personal
endings are almost wholly wanting. —

The I.-E. verbal system has been greatly simplified in
Hit. Besides the active voice, the medio-passive has
still been retained in it, but of the rich I.-E. temporal and
modal system nothing has been left but a present and a
preterite in the indicative, and an imperative. Future is
expressed by present forms. Of secondary conjugations
we have two in Hittite, namely, causative and iterative.
There is also a periphrastic perfect, formed with the
auxiliary verb har(k)- “to have.’ On the other hand,
Hittite shows some striking innovations in the verbal system.
The active personal endings of the present are :—

l. sg. mi, -hi 2: sg. si, OH Sy ag: mah) ad

1. pl. -weni, ‘meni 2. pl. -teni 5 Ba phe sng

106 BATAKRISHNA GHOSH

Of these endings -mi, -si, -zi and -nzi are quite trans-
parent and need no explanation. But the ending -Ai in the
first person sing. offers a seemingly insoluble problem (see
Sturtevant § 401). According as the first person singular
takes the ending -mi or -hi, the Hittite verbal stems are
divided into mi-conjugation and hi-conjugation respec-
tively. Of the endings -weni, -meni, the latter is probably
an analogical modification of the I.-E. plural ending -mes
after -teni, which is to be connected with Vedic -thana.
Corresponding to -weni and -ieni we have the preterital
endings -wen and -ten. Linguistically the most important
preterital ending is -er of the third person pl. of the hi-con-
jugation: it is in origin the I.-E. perfect ending of 3. pl. ;
ef. Skt. dad-ur, Lat. amav-ere, tokh. wefd-re. In im-
perative the endings -u (3. sg.) and -ndu (3. pl.) are as-
tonishing, for they prove that the deictic particle u had been
permanently joined to the original injunctive forms long
before the Indo-Iranian. era (see LIS., pp. 39-40). The
medio-passive r-endings, such as -tari (3. sg.) and -ntari
(3. pl.) of the present, have their exact counterparts in
Italo-Celtic and Tokharian; cf. Lat. legi-tur, leg-untur.—
Of [.-E. verbal suffixes, -skh and -nu are well attested in
Hittite. Hittite participles in -nt (-anz) are clearly re-
miniscent of Indo-European participles.
A Rare Indian Temple-type in Cambodia
By U. N. GHosHaL

It is a well-known fact that classifications of types of
temples (prdsddas) or of buildings in general (vimanas) form
a conspicuous feature of the Indian treatises on Fine Arts
(Silpagdsiras). The schemes of classification in these works
are not uniform, but are very various, depending as they do
upon different principles of grouping. There is, first, the
broad division into n@gara, draévida and vesara, which may

roughly be rendered as ‘North Indian’, ‘Deccan’ and ‘Southern’

styles. This division is found not only in Manasara, the
standard work on Hindu architecture, but also in such com-
pilations as the Suprabhedagama, as is shown by reference
to the valuable Dictionary of Hindu Architecture, by P. K.
Acharya (s.v. prdsGda). The primarily geographical charac-
ter of this classification is well brought out in a few verses
of the recently published work, the Silparatna (Trivandrum
Sanskrit Series, No. LXV) to which sufficient attention
does not appear to have been given so far. The verses

(Piirvabhaga Ch. XVI, vv. 47-49) are as follows:—
Himavad= Vindhyayor=madhyam sativikam bhitalam

— smrtam |

Vindhyaégailadi-Krsnantam rajasam parikirttitam || __
Punah Krsnddi-Kanyantam tamasam bhitalam bhavet |
Nagaram sattvike dege rajase drévidam bhavet ||
Vesaram tamase dege kramena parikirttitah |

This may be freely rendered as follows: “The tract
between the Himalayas and the Vindhyas is one of good-
ness, that between the Vindhyas and the Krsna is one of
passion, while the country between the Krsna and Cape

* Read at the Eighth | session of the. Intemational Congress of
Historical Sciences, Ziirich, 1938 egret e

@

108 U. N. GHOSHAL

Comorin is one of darkness. The ndgara style is said to
prevail in the country of goodness, the dravida style in the
country of passion, and the vesara style in the country of
darkness.’ -

Another important classification which the Silparatna
(p. 182) shares with the Manasara is into twelve groups
ranging from buildings of one storey to those of twelve
storeys. Each of these is again divided into a number of
sub-groups making the huge total of ninety-eight types.
(P. K. Acharya, Dict. of Hindu Arch., s.v. prasG@da).

The chapters on architecture in the Brhatsamhita of
Varahamihira (died 587 A.C.) as well as those of Matsya
and Bhavisya Puranas have in common another system of
classification relating to the division of temples (prdasddas)
into twenty types. (Refs. in Dict. of Hindu Architecture,
loc. cit.) This division is based on the joint principles of
height (16, 12, 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5 and 2 storeys), breadth (50, 43,
40, 34, 32, 30, 20, 16, 10, 8 and 4 cubits) and shape (those of
the lion, the elephant, the bird, etc. and those having sixteen
and eight angles). This -euriously complex division is
_ traced in the Brhatsathhita to the still older work of Garga
which is probably connected with the Gargya Samhita of
which a Ms. is preserved i in the Trinity. College Library at
Cambridge.

Yet another scheme of classification with which we are
immediately concerned is found (with minor variations in
the titles and descriptions of the types) in the architectural
chapters of the Agni and the Garuda Puranas. In these works
the temples are divided into five types, called Viraja, Pus-
paka, Kaildsa, Manika (in the Agni Purana) [Malika in the
Garuda Purana], and Trivistapa. Of these the first is said to
be a square (caturagra), the second rectangular (tadayaia),
the third circular (orfia),; the fourth oval (vrtiGyata) and the
last octangular (astaéra). Each of these five types is divided
into nine sub-groups, bringing the total to forty-five. (For
references, see P. K. Acharya, op. cit., s. v. prasGda). The
same five-fold division i is reproduced i in an early mediaeval
A RARE INDIAN TEMPLE-TYPE IN CAMBODIA 109

work, the Samaranganasitradhara, attributed to king Bhoja
(probably the renowned Bhoja Paramara of Malwa who
reigned from c. 1010-1055 A.C.). In chapter 49 of this work
we are told that the Lord Brahma created the five classes of
golden palaces (vimanas), viz., the vairdja, the kaildsa,
the puspaka, the manika, and the trivistapa for himself, for
Siva, for Kubera, for Varuna, and for Indra respectively.
He also made temples of stone and burnt brick of the same
types for the adornment of towns. These five types are
said to have the same shapes, (square, rectangular, circular,
oval and octangular), as the types of the Agni and the
Garuda Puranas. But while the earlier works mention only
forty-five sub-types, the Samaranganasiitradhara raises the
number to sixty-four, by dividing the vairdja or square type
into twenty-four sub-groups and the rest into ten each.

The nine sub-types of temples comprised in the Agni
and the Garuda Puranas under the head vairdja includes a
class of which unfortunately we have different readings in
different text-editions and Mss. of the same. It is called
nandaka in the Poona edition of the Agni Purana, while
the Calcutta edition reads it as nandika. The Calcutta edi-
tion of the Garuda Purana gives the reading nandana. In
different Mss. of the Agni Purana referred to in the Poona
edition the readings are given as nandaka and nandana. It
is a curious fact that not a single concrete reference to this
type has been found in the general or epigraphical literature
of India and till lately in the literature of the countries in-
fluenced by Indian culture. Happily, this want has now
been supplied by a recent discovery in Cambodia. In
course of his works of clearance among the group of
temples at Roltioh which belong to the reign of Indra-
varman I (877-889 A.C.), M. G.A.Trouvé discovered in
1932 and 1935 two inscribed foundation stéles of the temples
ef Pradh K6 and Bakon.. These inscriptions have since been
published by M. Qoedés in his very valuable corpus of ins-
criptions of Cambodia {Inscriptions du Cambodge, t. I,

4

pp. 17 ff.) Stanza 34 of the Bakon inscription, which fallows

aa We

tio U. N. GHOSHAL

an enumeration of the pious acts of the king, runs as
follows :—
yasyami sugatim pagedd=asto=ayam lokanandanah |
ltui=va sa dayavistah kalpayadmasa nandikam ||

What the poet intends to convey in this typical bit of
kaoya is, as M. Coedés has well explained, that the king
built a nandika with the intention that it would become
public after his death.

The above verse furnishes a happy instance of the way
in which Indian archaeology and the archaeology of Greater
India may be made to complete and supplement each other.
In the first place, it definitely fixes nandika as the correct
designation of the type of temples of which the Indian Mss.
and printed editions of the Agni and the Garuda Puranas
have given us several variant readings. In the second place,
it helps to fix the lower limit of origin of this particular type
of temples. If a nandika could be built in distant Cambodia
in the latter part of the ninth century, its beginnings in its
original Indian home may safely be traced back at least to
a century earlier. It may be recalled in this connection that
small flat-roofed temples consisting of a cella with a terrace
in front and often surrounded by a pillared hal] are charac-
teristic of a class of shrines in the Gupta period. _Interest-
ing examples of this kind are furnished by the temple No. 17
at Sanchias well as the ruined temples at Bhumara and
Nachna-Kuthara. We may safely classify such temples
under the general head vairdja and even, as will be shown
presently, under the sub-type nandika or its parallels. The
apsidal temples of the Gupta Age like those at Ter and
Chezarla would belong to the general type manika (or
malika) of the Agni and the Garuda Puranas.

We may next consider whether we can identify any of
the known constructions of Indravarman | of Cambodia
with the ~ sub-type _ nandika. M. Parmentier in his illu-
minating article on the art of Indravarman (BEFEO., t.
XIX, p. | ff.) notices “several characteristics of this art
distinguishing it alike from the primitive and the classical
Rm

A RARE INDIAN TEMPLE-TYPE IN CAMBODIA | in

Khmér art. Among these features may be mentioned the
system of isolated temples with side towers, the octagonal
pillars, the decoration of entrepilasters and so forth.
Frequent traces are also found in these constructions of
terraces. It is easy to see that the square plan of Indra-
varman’s buildings agrees with the general type vairdja
above mentioned. Indeed, when _M. Parmentier distinguishes
(op. cit., 66) the square plan of Indravarman’s buildings
from the rectangular structure of the primitive art, we may
describe the contrast in the technical language of the
Indian Silpagastras. We may say that it marked the transition
from the puspaka to the vairdja style of architecture. The
side towers and the terraces present a more interesting
problem. The Samaranganasiitradhara, as we have observed
before, gives sixty-four sub-types (instead of the usual
forty-five) of the five main groups of temples, and it adds
a short description of each. One of the sub-types called
nandi or nanda is described (Ibid., ch. 49, vv. 89-91) as
follows:
ayam samantdad-utksipto = odhyd-lindam vind yada |
madhyama= linda-saudha (stha stham?)

, karnaprasadakai=§&citah ||
prathama=lindagarbhau ca samutksiptatarau tatah |
syatam chhaddyadvaychchannauh tada nando’

| bhidhiyate ||
From the context it follows that this sub-class is taken by
the author to be a. modification of the one immediately
described above , viz., vijaya, which again is a simplifica- —
tion of the preceding type prthivijaya. As we understand
this difficult and obscure text, it seems that the characteris-
tic features of the nanda type (according to the above-
named authority) are as follows: cella resting on four
pillars (“‘garbham catustambham"’ of the prthivijaya type),
the third and outermost terrace (alinda) wanting, but still
raised on all four sides above the ground level, the second
and the middlemost terrace. covered with side- -towers, the
first and innermost: terrace raised higher up and covered

112 U. N. GHOSHAL

with double roofing (gabled roof?). We give below our
conjectural reconstruction of this type: —

an :
ef S ee a ee ers
:

ttn tee ee wee Ok Oy I NO A EE BE le eas ene

AA.

a a a <
FS N
GABLEDO
ROOF -
SIDE SIDE
TOWER TOWER

From the clase similarity of names we may identify the
nandi or nanda of the Samarangana with the nandika of
the Agni and the Garuda Puranas. In that case the terraces
and side-towers of Indravarman’s buildings would fit in with
the recorded descriptions of the nandika-nandi-nanda in the
Indian technical treatises. That king Indravarman in all his
constructions was not a mere copyist is shown by a signi-
ficant verse in the same Bakon inscription to which we have
referred above. Stanza 8 of this inscription is as follows:

_Srimatsimhasanam $Srindra-yanam srindravimanakam |

Srindraprasadakam haimam bheje yas=svadhiya krtam|

<P his evidently means that the king designed new types
of cotiveyances | ‘(yéna), palaces (vimana) and temples
a tbr) wees ae talled 2 after his ‘owe name. .

NOTICES OF BOOKS

Recherches Archeologiques a Begram Par J. Hackin
avac la collaboration de Madame Jj. R. Hackin CMemoires

de la Delegation Archeologique Francaise en Afghanistan,

Tome 1X}, 2 Vols., Les editions d’Art et Histoire, Paris,
1939. Price not stated.

All students of Indian Art ehioeid be greatly indebted
to Monseiur and Madame Hackin for bringing to light, and
to the Delegation Archéologique Fran¢aise for publishing,
a series of valuable documents bearing on the history of
the Mathura school of sculpture. During May to July
1927 Monsieur and Madame Hackin conducted certain ex-
cavations at an old Buddhist site at Begram, 45 kilometres
from Kabul,—excavations which were richly rewarded by
the discovery of certain painted glasses, potteries and
certain other miscellaneous antiquities and the remnants
of a series of ivory cofferets, boxes, and architectural
pieces. The group of carved and incised jivory pieces
constitutes a remarkable series of documents of great sig-
nificance to the history of Indian sculpture. The works of
the school of Mathura sculpture (Mathura silakaras) dating
from Kushan times and running into the Gupta period have
been very well known and studied, but the ivory fragments
with remarkably fine and significant carved figures and
incised drawings, discovered by M. Hackin, have indeed
brought to light a lost page in the history of Indian Art,
the like of which has not yet been traced in any part of
India. An additional significance is attached to the finds
owing to the fact that they are absolutely free from any

traces of foreign influence and are works of purely Indian

inspiration (‘‘d’inspiration purement. indienne’’)—a_ fact
which gains additional significance when we remember
that they have come from the heart of Hellenistic culture in
the E.ast,—very near to the ancient sites of Baktria, Kapiéa,

wamasee

SFE ie

ries

184 NOTICES OF BOOKS

and Gandhara. The question naturally arises if these
carvings were imported from India or executed locally by
a guild of ivory carvers from Mathura. If we compare
them with specimens of stone sculpture from old sites of
Mathura, e.g., those collected in the Mathura and the
Lucknow museums——we find they are not mere repetitions
of analogous style of the lithic art, but display a freshness,
a spontaneity, and a versatility,—which distinguish them
from the traditional formula of the Mathura School—and
hold these groups of examples together in a unity of style,
which seem to suggest that they were worked out locally by
a guild of sculptors imported from Mathura. In some
motifs, they appear to recall the Yaksini types of Sanchi
and Bharhut, but the Yaksinis are rendered in a more free
original and lively pose, and in a new stylistic convention
which can be clearly distinguished from the stylistic con-
ventions and the stereotyped poses and the fixed iconography
not only of the Sanchi and Bharhut Yaksinis, but also of
the Mathura Yaksinis, represented in the Mathura museum.
This divergent style can only be explained by the fact that
Begram pieces illustrate the birth of a New School of Art
the Mathura School in a nascent stage—of which the
developed, later, and decadent phases are illustrated in
the examples which have survived in India. Following
the Early Indian Art (represented by the remains of Sanchi
and Bharhut), and, preceding the art of the Gupta period
(principally represented at Sarnath)—we have the birth
and growth of a New. School of sculpture,—that of Mathura,
which appears to cover. a period of 400 years (circa Ist
century to 4th century A. D.). Inthe Begram remains we
have a glimpse of one of the early phases, if not the earliest
phase, of the Mathura School. A majority of the specimens
recovered at Begram, can hardly be designated as sculpture,
or even reliefs, and are mere incised drawings belonging
more to the domain of pictorial than of plastic Art. From this
point of view, these drawings. on ivory tablets and plaques
add tc to our. n knowledge of. the. state of Indian pictorial art
NOTICES OF BOOKS 11s

about the 2nd century A. D.—of which no other evidence
is available, either at Ajanta, or elsewhere. This class of
incised drawings (without very little, if any, manner of
modelling) is typically illustrated by Figs. 64, 107, and
221. The last example, a charming study of a Young
Woman with a Swan, may perhaps represent the Type of
‘a Hamsint maid’. Indeed, many of the women and girls
represented in this series do not represent Yaksinis, as
M. Hackin suggests, but most probably represent secular
types of ndyikds, the ‘‘heroines of love-lore,”’ indicated in
the Rasa-sdstras. Some of the duets in conventional poses
(e.g., Figs. 208, 211, 212) may represent Yaksini pairs of
cult symbolism, but others in freer story-telling and dramatic
poses (¢.g., PI. xl, Fig. 70, Pl. xxxi, Fig. 88) are un-
doubtedly meant to represent ndyikds (‘‘love-heroines’’)
of Indian erotology. Many of these nayika pairs, “‘lover
and her confidante’ (sakhi) represent ‘toilette scenes’ —
dressing and ‘decorating’ for a meeting with the beloved
(Fig. 66). One (Fig. 67) appears to illustrate a Navodhd, a
newly-wed, shy and modest lover—led by her confidante
to her Lord, frequently illustrated in Rajput miniatures.
M. Hackin has made some very appreciative comments
on the exceptionally high quality of some of these ndyikas’
toilette scenes and ndyikds (not identified as such):
L’ensemble que nous venons de décrire est d’une qualité
exceptionelle. C’est l’élégance d’Amaravati mais exprimée
par une @tre physique tres différent’’ (p. 90). Though re-
calling and related to some of the Amaravati figures, they
have to be clearly distinguished from the types of the
Amaravati School. Yet the link with Amaravati (almost
contemporary with Early Mathura School) is not entirely
lacking. The most typical connections are offered by the
vegetable motifs, the supernatural animal types. (jalebha,

jala-turaga, jala-hasitins, makaras, leo-gryphs, and other

marine monsters). M. ‘Hackin. somewhat complacently
assumes that these various types of marine monsters which
figure in early Buddhist'Art, are necessarily of extra-Indian

pekue 21m repens es

os

Brae.

116 NOTICES OF BOOKS

origin, ignoring recent researches which have traced their
forms to Vedic sources. As Codrington and other scholars
have pointed out, these marine monsters occurring in
various schools of Early Indian Art are “undoubtedly
indigenous.” Two distinctly foreign types occur in this
series of carved ivories. The first is represented by a type
of maid-servant or female attendant, or retainers who wear
a kind of narrow trousers (See Figs. 329, 156, 157, 158).
They recall identical types represented on the reliefs at
Amaravati and Nagarjunikonda. Another foreign type is
the Gandharan version of river-goddess wearing a chemise
and standing on makara (Figs. 77, 78) and clearly distin-
guished from the Indian version with the upper body un-
covered (Fig. 79). The latter example stands on two
marine monsters—a makara, and a jala-turaga with scales,
recalling similar compositions and motifs occurring on
early reliefs at Amaravati (circa Ist century B.C.). A
typically Hellenistic figure is the bronze bust of Athena
(Nos. 241, 142). M. Hackin has drawn attention to a very
remarkable plaque (Fig. C, Fig. 137) which undoubtedly
ilustrates an archaic Sumerian motif (cited in an example
from Farah, Fig. D). It represents a group of lions and
human beings, intimately grouped, and representing some
pre-historic Indo-Sumerian cult-symbols, if we can judge
from analogous groups discovered at Mohenjo-daro. The
Begram piece offers a very significant example of Indiani-
zation of extra-Indian religious motifs, and the indigenous
Indian style which translates the Sumerian cult in the
characteristic plastic language of India, amply demonstrates
that a borrowing of motif does not import any manner of
‘influence’ on the native Indian language of Plastic Art.

This is further demonstrated by the Mathura versions of
the anguipéde (Figs. 73, 74, 199), a marine monster of the
dolphin type, with two tails symmetrically disposed and
held in two hands, of which Hellenistic versions occur in
a reliefs. . Here the Indian versions introduce
ginal ican repletion | the. tails isd two makaras from
Docent

NOTICES OF BOOKS 114

the jaws of which emerge a Yaksa goblin (Fig. 73). The
author cites a fragment of a Greco-Buddhist bas-relief
from Shotorak (near Begram) (Fig. 109) which illustrates
a typically Indian makara-torana (placed on two [onic
pillars) (the so-called ‘“‘Iéo-griphes’’ are actually makaras)
and incidentally illustrates the ‘‘influence’’ of Indian Art on
Hellenistic Sculpture, if borrowing of motifs can be taken as
evidence of “‘influences’’. The question of the date of
these exquisite ivory pieces is of some consequence to
the history of Indian Art, in general, and of the Mathura
School, in particular. The author compares them with
and relates them to the examples of the museums of
Mathura and Lucknow belonging to the epoch of the Great
Kusanas (Ist to 3rd century A. D.), and suggests (at p. 22)
a date between the end of the 3rd century and the begin-
ning of the 4th century, A.D., on the basis of their
astonishing virtuosity, their happy skill and perfection of
technique. On the basis of certain Kharosthi letters cited by
the author (p. 24) a date between the 2nd and the 3rd
century is suggested. The present reviewer is inclined to
date the pieces a little earlier on the basis of a stylistic
comparison with typical examples of Mathura stone-reliefs.
The author alludes to certain “traces d’influence hellénis-
tique’’ which are not demonstrated. He however rightly
emphasises the fact that the Begram pieces remain
faithful to the artistic tradition of India, inspite of the fact
that the Buddhist Art of Mathura displays some innovations
coming from the North-west (3). He further remarks,
(noticing the independent and original character of these
decorated and figured ivories), that in the north of India,
the secular art appears to rebel against foreign influences,
to which the religious Buddhist Art openly patronised by
the invaders, appears to easily submit itself.

The work is in two parts, the first being the volume of
Text (p. 137) and the second being the volume of 78 plates
illustrating 238 pieces. admirably. reproduced in Phototype
Plates. The cross-references to” the figures and the

118 NOTICES OF BOOKS

numbers of the finds are somewhat confusing, inspite of
the “Tableau de concordance’. We are greatly indebted
to French connoisseurship of Indian Art for this admirable
tribute, and for recovering for students of Indian culture,
a precious, though a lost, chapter of Mathura sculpture.

©. C. GancoLy

The Silappadikaram or the Lay of the Anklet, Trans-
lated with an Introduction and Notes by V. R. Ram-
Chandra Dikshitar, Oxford University Press, 1939. Price
Rs. 15/- |

As Monsieur Jules Bloch remarks in the Foreword to this
excellent volume, “it is a boon not only to the student of
history but also to the literary man and to everybody inter-
ested in Tamil Literature.’" Mr. Dikshitar is an historian
of Tamil culture and he has already given evidences of
his researches in his Studies in Tamil Literature and History,
containing tantalizing glimpses of the data imbedded in
ancient Tamil Literature. There has been a demand
for easy and direct access to the ancient Tamil Texts, and
the historian has generously come forward to give an accu-
rate translation of one of the famous epics of early Tamil
culture-~a task properly due from a student of Literature.
But we thank the historian all the same for undertaking
this arduous task and disclosing the direct evidences bear-
ing on many phases of Tamilian history and culture. The
present reviewer is not competent to appraise the quality
of the translation but those competent to judge have already
praised the faithful character and accuracy of this render-
ing,——an accuracy which, at times, has gone to the extreme
length and demand a freer version. But, as an historian,
he has been scrupulous in presenting his evidences in a
strictly accurate translation. For this document, though
primarily a justly. famous. epic,—is a museum of infor-
tations of many phases of early culture in the South. The
various data geograpical, social, religious, _ political,
NOTICES OF BOOKS 119

commercial and asthetic have been carefully distinguished
and commented on in a very learned Introduction which
is the author’s original contribution to study of this famous
Epic. As a culture-Saga, the ‘Story of the Anklet’ covers
the triple kingdoms of the Cholas, Cheras and Pandyas,
and Pattini the deified heroine, worshipped and prayed
to by all the earth, made the Chola king realize the truth
of the old saying that the chastity of virtuous women would
not be meritorious if the valiant monarch did not rule
properly ; again she made the Pandyan, the guardian of
the Southern regions, realize that the king would not live
if his sceptre swerved from justice; further, the Chera
king of the Western regions was made to feel that the
wrath incurred by true monarchs would not be appeased
till their sworn vows were fulfilled so as to be known to
the kings of the Northern regions. This map of Tamil
culture, therefore, includes within its orbit and has knit
together the three sister kingdoms of the South, famous in
history. The quality of the Epic poem, (divided into 23
brilliant cantos in three Books), is of an unique aesthetic
flavour. Ithas a harmonious combination of the lyrical,
the dramatic, and the grandiose. No other Epic in the
world can rival, or stand comparison with its original rasa
values. Take for instance, the ‘sea-shore songs’ (Canto
VID. Their lyrical fragrance and their imaginative flavour
are hard to beatin any language. But we are more con-
cerned, here, with historical information and antiquarian
data which the Epic provides in abundance to the students
of antiquity. The great Karikala Chola, immortalized by
the Sangam poets, the author of the Kavery dams, the
builder of the commercial and maritime capitals Pukar and
Kaveripattanam, is pictured in the Epic with picturesque
details. The portrait of Nedunchallyan, the contemporary
Pandyian King is also drawn on the canvas of this Epic
in vivid colours and piquant details. The Chera King
Senguttuvan also comes to. life in the pages of this

remarkable Saga. But much more interesting is the yivid

eae eS wy

2 Semeaegs cee ati os

120 NOTICES OF BOOKS

glimpse that we get of the international city of Pukar,
with its foreign colony of Yavanas, its merchants, and
traders, artists, artisans and soldiers, and the detailed
description of the various quarters of the city, each with
its particular social group-——-with its marts, markets, and
shrines—~is of intense interest. The description of the
celebration of the Indra’s festival (now alas, extinct!) is one
of the finest cantos in the Epic. It helps us to visualize
the life of the times with vivid and cinematographic
details. Many significant details help to fix not only the
date of this Epic, which has been hitherto exaggerated by
Tamil patriots, but also offer materials to fix the date of
the evolution of many phases of Indian culture. Although
the Epic cannot be placed earlier than the second
century A. D., it helps to fix the dates of other phases of
Indian culture. The cult histories of Siva, Visnu,
Skanda and other forms of the divinity receive new and
significant lights. The temple and the worship of Siva
and other deities are frequently referred to. One quota-
tion will suffice: ‘‘At that time the thunder of the morning
drum rose high accompanied by the blowing of the white
conch from the temples of Siva with the forehead eye, of
Visnu with the Garuda standard, of Baladeva with the
plough and of Subrahmanya with the cock-flag, and from
the residences of those proclaiming dharma as well as from
the palace of the victorious king.”’ (Canto XIV; 1-14),
There are two significant references which establish the
antiquity of the Tirupati shrine—to ‘‘the red-eyed Lord,
dwelling on the. topmost crest of the tall and lofty hill
named Venkatam” (Canto XI, 56). But while the Epic
offers to admiring gaze the rich panorama of the life and
culture of the South, vividly portrayed with interesting
details—the evidences. disclosed in the text establish
beyond all shadow of doubt that the culture that is dis-
closed in the pages of this text—is a culture deeply im-
penetrated and dominated. by a Sanskrit culture—appa-

taeewee aeeered from oe North: Not ony? eleven per cent
NOTICES OF BOOKS 121

of the text {as demonstrated by the author in Appendix |)
is loaded with Sanskrit words—the whole system and the
framework of the society pictured, the ideals of religion
and of morality are all borrowed from Aryan, and non-
Tamil sources. Even the poetical imageries, the metaphors,
and similes and the rhetorical conventions are bodily
taken and adopted from Sanskrit Literature. In the field
of religion and image-worship, the names of the Vedic
and the Pauranic gods, which occur in this text prove
beyond doubt “‘that the assimilation and the blend of two
cultures, Sanskrit and Tamil, was a thing of the ancient
past’. And grievous must be the disappointment of
those who have been fed on the promise that early Tamil
Literature offers an antique and original culture, clearly
to be distinguished from the Aryan Sanskrit culture of the
North. May be, the earlier poems, the Seven Idyllis are
the repository of the unique, original, and independent
pre-Aryan Tamil culture in its aboriginal purity and
simplicity free from the shadow of rainbow colours
of Sanskrit Literature. But the Silappadikadram not-
withstanding many local touches, here and there, does
not represent the ‘‘well of Tamil Culture undefiled,”’
but is coloured heavily by the thick paints of the
Sanskrit palette, which conceal. rather than reveal the
primitive and original texture of the native Tamil genius
and its unique ways of thought and expression. To
complete the survey, the earlier and the later Sagas
the Seven Idylls and the Manimekhalai—demand a
similar exposition and it is hoped that some other scholar,
if not Mr. Dikshitar himself, should give us translations of
other Tamil texts on the excellent model set by our author.

Apart from social and_ political institutions and data

provided in this Epic, there is a wealth of material avail-
able for an elaborate study of music and dancing; though
‘dramatic poetry’ is vaguely mentioned, there is no evi-
dence of the existence of drama proper (ndtakam) as such.

There are two branches of dramaturgy referred to under

eee

122 NOTICES OF BOOKS

the Tamil names of yal and isai, but there is no ancient
Tamil word corresponding to ndtaka. The mudrdas and
the ‘hands of gesticulations’ are referred to under the name
of pindi. But it is not suggested that 24 different mudrds
have been evolved at the time of this Epic. Only
eleven modes of body-movement and limb-movements
(same as in the Bharata text) are referredto. Even the
mythical origin of Dancing, though localised with the
cult of Agastya, and the ‘staff’ (talaikkol) symbolical of
Jayanta-figures as jarjara in the text of Bharata, and must
be an adaptation of earlier Sanskrit legends. Our author
very ably shifts the data of music and musical instruments
and establish that ya! and vind are different instruments.
But he appears to exaggerate the difference between Tamil
and early northern music. The 22 Srutis, and the seven
notes derived from the voice of seven animals, are obvious-
ly derived by Tamilians from the northern musical lore,
and it is useless to claim originality for édstric Tamil
music by suggesting the theory of parallel ideas. Undoub-
tedly, the folk-music of the Tamil represented an original
culture—but, as the author points out, the native Tamil
music was forgotten even in the time of Adiyarkku-
nallar (p. 369), and ‘South Indian music seems to
follow largely the theory modes, and notation of early
Sanskrit musicians.” We have nothing but high praise
for the learned Introduction (74 pages) and the elaborate
notes given at the foot of the text. At times, the Notes
border on cheap generalisations, e.g., when in connection
with the ‘quantity marks’ branded on the bales of goods,
the author runs to ‘pictographic writings’ and ‘South India’s
intercourse with Egypt’! - ‘At one place the author is led
to remark that chariots drawn by horses were not in vogue
at the time, a suggestion which is contradicted by many
passages in the text (V, 157-158). The tying of taliis never
practised in Northern Indian marriages in the upper castes
{p. 57), 80 that. other social customs have to be investigated
to pry. the Prayidiga, influences on n Aryans—a fact con-
NOTICES OF BOOKS 123

ceded by various scholars. The author has given a list
of instances ‘pp. 64-65) to prove that the author of the Epic
had first-hand knowledge of the Sanskrit works on drama
and music as well as of the Sanskrit Epics and the Puranas,
which corroborate the author’s remark that ‘‘Tamil imagi-
nation has been from very early times influenced by Aryan
Culture.’” The text of the Silappadikdram amply proves
the fundamental unity of Indian culture in the North and
in the South. And the author has earned the gratitude
of all Jovers of Indian culture by presenting this unique
material in a worthy form and in the spirit of accurate
and unbiassed scholarship.

OC. :G.

Cuide to the Archaeological Galleries (Madras Govern-
ment Museum)—By F. H. Gravely, C. Sivaramamurti and
other curators. Pp. 48, 4 plates. Madras, 1939.

iiustrations of Indian Sculpture Mostly Southern—By
F. H. Gravely and C. Sivaramamurti, Introduction, 45
plates, Madras, 1939.

These two handy and extremely useful monographs from
the indefatigable pen of the Superintendent of the Madras
Government Museum and his assistants make a fresh
addition to the list of their valuable contributions on South
Indian art and archaeology. In the short but informative
Preface to the Guide, the authors modestly state their
objects to be “to provide somewhat fuller information than
has been possible in the labels, and to present it in a form
in which it can be taken away for future reference’. In
actual fact, they give a luminous survey of South Indian
Art in its different branches from the earliest times to the
present. In the Guide the authors, after a short introduction
tracing the history of Indian art down to the Gupta times,
deal with the early sculpture as represented by Amaravati
and the northern schools. This preliminary survey introduces
us to short sections on South Indian architecture and sculp-
ture followed by shorter notices of East Indian sculpture, of

124 NOTICES OF BOOKS

South Indian scripts and of coins. An archaeological map
and ashort, but extremely valuable appendix on Hindu,
Buddhistand Jaina iconography, four plates and as many
drawings complete this interesting work. Some of the
authors’ accounts, e.g., of the four periods of Amaravati
and related art (pp. 4-7), of the five periods of Tamilian
architecture illustrated with drawings (pp. 16-19), of the
corresponding periods of Tamilian sculpture (pp. 22-24),
are models of lucid, accurate and ample exposition. The
authors show their good sense in explaining (p. 11) the
resemblance of Gupta art to the art of classical Greece, not
as a result of western influence but as that of parallel
development. Considering its extreme usefulness, the
price of this monograph seems to be remarkably cheap.

We offer below a few suggestions for consideration of
the learned authors in a case a second edition is called for.

P. 2—"The Buddhists were not only the earliest
Indian historians but, with the Jains, were also the first
to develop sculpture in stone’’. The fact is that the un-
certainties of Indian literary chronology are so great that
it is difficult to say who are the earliest Indian historians.
The Buddhist canon, it is true, contains germs of Buddha's
biography and Buddhist church-history, but might. not the
eldest Puranas presumably containing dynastic lists with

didactic observations be equally or even still more ancient?

A. Bhavisyat Purana at any rate existed earlier than
Apastamba’s Dharmasiitra. As to the second point, can we
attribute Buddhist or Jaina connections to such pre-Maurya
or Maurya sculptures as the stone figures from Patna,
Besnagar and Parkham which most probably belong to
the cult of yaksas and yaksinis? Even the Jaina origin
of the nude. torso with. Mauryan polish described by the
late Dr. K. P. Jayaswal i in the JBORS. and now deposited
in the Patna Museum has still to be definitely proved.

P. 3—"The ruined. ‘Lad Khan” temple at Aihole near

Badami seems to be the: most southerly monument [of the

Gaptael Considering that the Aihole stands altogether
et

se
-

a

NOTICES OF BOOKS 125

outside the zone of the Gupta empire, it seems desirable
to replace ‘Gupta art’ of commonly accepted nomenclature
by the term ‘Gupta-Vakataka art’. Attention may also be
drawn to the fact that the late Mr. R. D. Banerji in his
‘Age of the Imperial Guptas’, has, contrary to the usual
view, attributed the Lad Khan temple to Kirtivarman I of
the Western Calukya dynasty.

P. 8—‘‘Graeco-Buddhist art seems to have originated in
(or before) the reign apparently long and peaceful of the
Scythian Azes I... lt had a brief but brilliant revival in
the ‘Indo-Afghan’ sculpture of about 400 A.D. or a little
later’’". Azes 1 was certainly a renowned ruler whose
chief exploit appears to have been the conquest of the
Eastern Punjab from its last Greek king Hippostrates. He
has also been supposed to be the founder of the Vikrama
era. But his family was Persian, not Saka. Again if Dr.
Tarn is right in identifying the figure on one of Maues’
coin types as that.of Buddha, the beginnings of Buddhist
art must go back some twenty years earlier than Azes I's
time. The term ‘Indo-Afghan’ made fashionable by Sir
John Marshall is open to the objection that it might suggest,
on the analogy of Indo-Persian art, the wholly. mistaken
idea of joint Indian and Afghan cultural influences.

P. 9—-‘The Graeco-Buddhist sculptures exhibited in-
clude Buddhas and Bodhisattvas in Greek robes’’. The
robes of the Gandharan Buddha are the usual monastic
garments of the Buddhist bhiksu, while those of the
Gandharan Bodhisattvas are the ordinary Indian princely
garments.

P, 9— “The Lomas Rsi Cave in the Barabar Hills with a
frieze of elephants on its facade’* are included among
“the few truly indigenous remains that survive from the
Maurya period’. In view of Dr. A. Banerji-Sastri’s obser-
vations, (JBORS., Vol. XII, pp. 49-52 and 58-62) it is not
improbable that the unique fagade of the Lomas Rsi Cave
was the work of Kalinga artists during the raid of king
Kharavela. =

6

126 NOTICES OF BOOKS

P.9~—‘‘The famous capitals of Asoka’s edict-pillars are
in Persepolitan style.” Usually the style is characterised
as Perso-Hellenistic, though there are other views making
“the bell-shaped capital’” partake the form of an wp-turned
lotus of indigenous tradition or else deriving the same from
a common West-Asiatic inheritance in which the art of
Persepolis also shared. |

P. [0—‘‘Indian art, instead of idealising man’s physical
and intellectual beauty as Greek art did, tended to idealise
rather his spirityal beauty......so much so that in the early
days of indigenous sculpture, the sacred figure of Buddha
was invariably represented symbolically, never in bodily
form as in Greco-Buddhist sculpture’’. Not to raise the
vexed question of origin of the Buddha image, it seems
clear that the early ban against Buddha’s figure-representa-
tion was due to definite canonical prohibitions, which
probably reflect Buddha's keen desire to guard against the
danger of man-worship. In later times the Indian spiritual
ideal, so far from inhibiting the representation of Buddha,
helped to produce the magnificent creations of Gupta and
post-Gupta periods.

P.30—“With the PP habla exception of the elephant
above the Asoka edict at Dhauli......and of the sculptured
caves of Udayagiri and Khandagiri......the earliest surviving
sculptures of the ancient Kalinga kingdom and of Bengal
are from times considerably later than the close of the
Gupta period, from the artof which however they derived
their inspiration’. Attention has recently been drawn to
the fact that not only Gupta but also Kushan types of
sculpture, presumably of local origin, may be traced in
the art of ancient Bengal, which also points to the existence
of an old indigenous tradition, sharing with Gupta art in
the evolution of the art of the Pala period (See the valuable
paper of S. K. Saraswati, Early Sculpture of Bengal in Journ.
Dept. of Letters, Calcutta, ae, Vol, OF Calcutta,
1937).

OP, 31—"Udlandapurs the: Pala colital The oldest
NOTICES OF BOOKS 127

definite references to Uddandapura occur on two Buddha
pedestal inscriptions of the reign of Vigrahapala I (or Sira-
pala 1). A Tara image has also been found from the ruins
of the Bihar fort with an inscription of king Ramapala. But
probably the only Pala king having his capital at Uddanda-
pura was Govindapala who belonged to the latter part
of the 12th century, and was presumably overthrown by
Muhammad ibn Bakhtiyar.

P. 32—‘‘Kharosthi.....-finally disappeared in about the
third century A.D.’’.. The Kharosthi records may be traced
down at least to the middle of the 5th century A.D.

Pp. 33-34—‘‘Punch-marked puranas are...---...impressed
with three or four symbols each......The Puranas may be
presumed to have been issued by specially authorised local
authorities or persons’. The fact is that punch-marked
purdanas bear on the obverse a group of five symbols and on
the reverse two or three or otherwise a number of punches.
It has also been recently shown that the extraordinary unifor-
mity of these coins points to a central issuing authority

which is presumably that of the Maurya empire. (See John

Allan, A Catalogue of the Indian Coins in the British
Museum, London, 1939, Introduction, pp. xxi, xxxvii, lvi).

In conclusion, we would refer to a few misprints: —p. 9
‘charibearer’, ‘Didargange’s p. 3 n n ‘Charma’, ‘flour-de-lis’
p. Il ‘roots’.

The Illustrations, which is a companion volume of the
Guide, contains good reproductions of a series of forty-five
sculptures mostly belonging to the Madras Museum. The illus-
trations are well selected and they include specimens from
some less well-known schools, such as the Andhra sculp-
ture from Goli (pl. x), Kalinga sculptures from Mukhalingam
(pls. xvi-xvii), Early Eastern Calukyan sculptures (pls. xx-
xxi), Nolamba sculptures (pls. xxii-xxiii) and Kakatiya
sculpture (pl. xxvii). Naturally enough, the Tamilian
sculptures account for the largest number of illustrations

(pls. xxix-xlvi), showing the. evolution from the Pallava

period to modern times. a

128 NOTICES OF BOOKS

We could wish that the provenance of some of the sculp-
tures (e.g. pl. xxi), should not have been left blank, also
that one or either of the famous Nateéa figures of the
Museum which roused the enthusiastic admiration of M.
Rodin, had been included, and that at least one more Pala
sculpture belonging to its early phase had found a place.
We would finally point out that the statement (Introduction,
p. 1): “The different schools of sculpture that developed
in the various kingdoms which arose [in Northern India]
on the downfall of the Gupta empire, are all based upon
that empire’s art’’ ignores, e.g., the vigorous indigenous
tradition of Bengal to which reference has been made above.

U. N. GHOSHAL

Pandji Verhalen Onderling Vergelekan by R. M. Ng.
Dr. Poerbatjaraka, Bibliotheca Javanica IX. Published by
the Royal Batavian Society.

in this important publication, the author summarises a
number of Pafiji stories (Hikayat Pafiji Kuda Semirang, the
Cambodian Pafiji story, the Pafiji story from Serat Kanda,
Angrom Akung, Jayakusuma, Pafiji of Palembang, Pafiji
Kuda Naravangéa ‘Malat). This is followed by the author's
comparison of the stories and his valuable remarks on their
general character. Differing from his predecessors, the
author thinks that Kalang (Gegelang), was the name of a
kingdom with a kraton of the same name which was tiated
at the western foot of the Wilis. He further thinks that the |
Pafiji stories originated in the post-Majapahit period and
were originally written in middle-Javanese.

H. B. Sarkar,
a

Lecture on ‘‘American Interest in
Indian Culture’’

Recently Calcutta had the opportunity of welcoming in
its midst Dr. Horace 1. Poleman, Ph.D., Director of the
Library of Congress, Washington (U.S..A.), who was touring
in India in connection with his scheme of establishing cultural
contacts between India and America. At the invitation of
the Ramakrishna Mission Institute of Culture, Dr. Poleman
read a paper in the rooms of the Institute on the 3rd August
1940 with Dr. Kalidas Nag, Joint Secretary of the Greater
India Society, in the chair. With the kind permission of
the Ramakrishna Institute we have pleasure in reproducing
below the main portion of this interesting paper.

‘‘] shall consider the culture of India from two points
of view—its past and its future. Doubtless no American
interested in the humanities would assert that Indic civiliza-
tion has been inconsequential in the past and is negligible
in our calculations for the future, yet doubtless few think in
an inclusive way of India’s accomplishments. Perhaps
Americans think exclusively, if at all, of your philosophy
and religion. And justly so. For aside from the abortive
‘““Aryanization’’ now being promulgated by the German High
Command, the Indo-European speaking peoples of India are
the only branch of that linguistic stock to have developed and
zealously preserved its own religious and philosophical con-
cepts—concepts which have resisted both intellectual and
armed invasions, and revolutions throughout historical times.
In the Rigveda one finds the well-developed result of pro-
found thinking on the part of your early seers. Much of
this thinking demands further clarification. In the Atharva-
veda a pre-Aryan folk-religion of magic appears, but the
substructure remained. Although the Upanishads form an
intellectual revolution with little remaining from the Vedas
except the adoration of the Pitrs, they are still characteris-
tic of Indian thought. And it is in the study of them that the

130 AMERICAN INTEREST IN INDIAN CULTURE

foreign student is impressed by the lightning flashes of truth,
which inevitably affect his own evaluation of himself and his
world as well as of the early thinkers of India. The Upa-
nishads found their reaction in the still later erowth of
ritualism on the one hand and the infusion of bhakti into
worship on the othey on an ever-increasing scale. How
much of these phases are Aryan in their progressive deve-
lopment and how much the adoption of the pre-Aryan ideas
is yet to be determined by a study of the primitive and
prehistoric. The impact of all this on the West result-d in
the German romantic movement of the 19th century to-
gether with the scientific study of the history and comparison
of religions. Much of the thinking of Schopenhauer eman-
ated from the Upanishads, and the responsibility for the
American Transcendentalist School of thought lies with India.
“In the realm of pure literature India’s contributions are
famous. Although the religious content is prominent,
it has not excluded a massive literature of epic, drama—which
perhaps has a first place in antiquity,—folk-lore, law and
lyric poetry, as well as elaborate studies in linguistics, aes-
thetics, and the. poetic art. No teaching of the history of
literature in the West can claim distinction without an
adequate consideration of India. The history of drama is
vitally concerned with India, the spread of folk-lore
through the West from India, where it goes deep into the
subsoil of culture, makes any treatment of that subject ludi-
crous without constant reference to Indian origins. Not
until recent times has any grammatical or linguistic work
approached in clarity, exactness and scientific perfection the
work of Panini and his followers. The study or rhetorical
principles and of all phases of law finds itself in the same
relation to India,
“Architecture and the plastic arts have had a career in
India which we can study since the third century B.C. India’s

art has had a unique history, of theme and technique, and has

never been. excelled for i imaginative power. Schools of art

ey ye West are > giving increasing attention. Our chief task
ee
ser EE Sage

AMERICAN INTEREST IN INDIAN CULTURE 131

in the expansion of stich study will be to furnish the neces-
sary implementation to the educational system of America.

‘All phases of science have had a long and independent
position in Indian thinking. Medicine, astronomy, mathe-
matics and law need interpretation to the West. To mention
one aspect ] was asked a number of years ago by a medical
research scientist if there is anything in the history of Indian
medicine referring to Caesarian section. As a result of my
studies of death-rituals in which this operation has figured I
was able to give him much interesting antiquarian material,
which was subsequently considered important enough to
publish for the scientific world. Medical science could
profit from a careful study of Indian materials.

‘Anyone unacquainted with Indian civilization in its
various departments does not know, or even begin to know,
the world-history of any one of those phases of culture.

“Tt will be my pleasant task in collaboration with .cer-
tain others presently to persuade American educators to
acquaint their students with this civilization on a scale
hitherto unknown. The plan for the programme of the
development of Indic studies in America can best be stated
by quoting from a recent Bulletin of the American Coun-
cil of Learned Societies on “Indic Studies in America”:
The programme will call for the training of two kinds of
personnel— ‘the one to be engaged primarily in Indological
research and in due time to fill the present chairs of Sans-
krit and similar chairs which may be instituted at other
great universities. The second kind of personnel to be
trained is one to carry Indological knowledge to a large
audience through the medium of other disciplines. These
men, trained in the Indian aspects of their fields—fine arts, |
history, anthropology, political science, and a number of
other disciplines—would present India to the students in our
colleges and universities in a far more widely reaching
manner than is possible ice the present few professors of
Sanskrit.

“In addition to the training and placing of Baaener we

132. AMERICAN INTEREST IN INDIAN CULTURE

need implementation, particularly that which makes the
study of India possible to the large group peripheral to Indo-
logy and dependent upon the Indologists fer the scientific
standard of the Indic materials it uses. It is true that the
implementation for Indic studies is better than it is in most
underworked fields, because there is already a tradition
(in America) of a century's scientific labour in many parts of
the field. But the implementation will not suffice for the
expansion of Indic studies beyond their present limits.

“For the production of both the personnel and the imple-

mentation, we need a strong American school in India. The
American School of Indic and Iranian studies was organized
in 1934, primarily for the purpose of assuming responsibility
for the excavations at Chanhu-daro. Its very modest pledges
of funds, first made in 1930, evaporated during the depres-
sion, and even the excavations which were started on con-
tributed money have not yet been satisfactorily completed.
At some time the School will establish headquarters in
Benares, where it will serve as a centre of training for younger
American scholars, provide a radial point for the use of
Americans conducting humanistic research in India, and
participate in the revaluation of Indic culture which the
Indians are making for themselves.

“The present status of Indic studies sets the problems
of that field peculiarly before the humanities, and it is
scholars of the humanities who must urge the development of
Indic studies in the West. These studies offer a vast and
fruitful field for research, they will be a tool for comprehend-

ing the world which is now coming to be and for meeting its
needs, they will enrich humanistic studies and validate the
humanistic approach to understanding.

“So much for the past. It is a rich past. But in glory-
ing in that past, do not lose sight of the future. It will be

Jess than futile, it will be degenerate to be content to revel
in that past without planning a vigorous future. There have
been great thinkers in your past. ‘There are some to-day.

ee is reasonable. to suppose that the reflective tradition will
sale

nS ott ome E

AMERICAN INTEREST IN INDIAN CULTURE 133

carry on, but inevitably modified by modern scientific
approaches. Much revaluation of this past must be accom-
plished within India itself as it is to be applied to current and
future problems and thought. Such revaluation is already
appearing, but those reactionaries who refuse to revalue,
who insist upon the continuance of traditional values with-
out submitting them to a searching, as well as sympathetic,
analysis, will be discredited in the West. The students of
American colleges to-day are no longer the playboys of the
first quarter of this century. They are hard-thinking, deter-
mined realists, looking eagerly for real values wherever
they can find them. They will not be interested in vague
shoutings about the omnipotent Om, and secret, mystical
interpretations of what may be realistically evaluated. We
on our side stand indicted for many mistakes and false
values, so that we must also let ourselves in for evaluations.
We need intellectual understanding on each side to make
a satisfactory adjustment of East with West. Much patience
and co-operation will be needed.

“But to get down to specific points. Philosophy and
religion assume a new place in our development. The man
of to-day must be less concerned with whether a Christ or a
Krishna were divine incarnations than he must be concerned
with whether what they taught will work in the planning
of a good and healthy life for himself and fellow-beings.
‘Spiritual’? fads, creeds, and dogmas will not help. They
will only embitter and destory. Ignorance must succumb
to education. An old manuscript must be revered not
because it is the supposed holy utterance of a seer, but
because it ig an expression of an intellect, which may have
intellectual value for us. Where truth exists it will be re-
cognized, but only when bias and clap-trap have been
clearly shorn away from it. I have noticed three kinds of
scholars in India: the reactionary who is impatient of all
modern scientific methods, who is content with a traditional
point of view exclusively; a second type who is still in the
grip of medievalism and loves nothing so much as to argue

rh :

ae i ea rl

134 AMERICAN INTEREST IN INDIAN CULTURE

the relative merits of this or that mantra for the attainment
of soul-force. (There are similar minds in the West too.)
And finally there is the third who justly dissatished with
much of the Western evaluation of Eastern learning carefully
searches in his laboratory of technical instruments or in his
mind for an unprejudiced and just treatment. of his subject.
Yes, India is well on the way toward a severe and critical
attitude toward herself, but there are still many elements
within her which would dissuade her from the work. The
eyes of the West will be increasingly upon you, expectant,
eager, but critical. Search yourselves well.

““Turning from the world of ideas to that of scientific
research | would like to indicate briefly some of the work
which remains to be done.

“The archaeologist’s spade has only begun to turn up
the facts necessary for the understanding of the prehistoric
as it has affected the historic. So much that is unexplored
in the past requires the light of intense archaeological work.
To peneirate the secret of the origin of Indian art, for ex-
ample, will require much delving into the earth-bound past.
lt may never be penetrated, but a working hypothesis for
its origins may be forthcoming.

“In the field of Janguages considerable scientific analysis
is still needed, for Sanskrit itself and the literary dialects of
antiquity. The monumental work of the Petersburg Lexicon
frequently falls short of the requirements of the scholar work-
ing in any phase of Sanskrit literature, since so much of that
literature remains unexplored. In philosophy and religion
there are numerous unpublished texts dealing with medieval
theories and practices. Mediaeval texts on rituals remain
almost unexplored. Much of modern religious practices have
yet to come under any ‘scientific observation, In the realm

OF pure literature there are texts to be published for the West.

Even of the standard and long known texts, some are still

‘Hoe published i in critical editions. | For example, the Maha-
ie bharata } whe oR hen ‘eceiving “such excellent editorint

——

AMERICAN INTEREST IN INDIAN CULTURE — 135

ireatment at the Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute at
Poona.

“‘Many of the modern tongues of India remain to be
studied scientifically. Dravidian and Munda languages have
vast uncharted spaces.

‘In the fields of anthropology and ethnology the concep-
tions of the racial history of India will probably be subject to
correction as the necessary investigations are pursued.

“The history of India will constantly be revised in the
light of new inscriptions, numismatics, and literary evidence.
Not too much is known about political and economic theory
and practice in ancient India. Sociology lacks a satisfactory
explanation of even so fundamental an element of Indian life
as the caste system. The study of Hindu and Moslem cultures
in their interrelations is practically a virgin field. If the world
is to know India it must have much more material from her
scholars that exists at present. We in the West will assist
in whatever way we can.

“For the pursuit of this work much organization and
co-operation must be developed. Each of us has his pet
interests, but we must try to consider them as they relate
to the work of others, for no one field exists alone. The
ethnographical work of a man in Bengal must be considered
by the Malayalam. The archaeologist of Eastern India must
keep his eye on the man in Sind. Since scholars are also
human beings they find it easier to criticise than to co-operate.
And in a country where non-co-operation has in some respects
become a disease, the elements of disorganization must be
specially kept under control.

“I hope that as India develops as a nation she will also
develop a national centre for the direction of cultural studies,
for the collection of the data, and the distribution of it
abroad.

“The interpretation of India to America will depend

more on what you do than upon ‘the small group of its own
scholars and educators in the Indic field. Rightly or wrong-

ly your ideas for the time being will be measured by Western

Exo

x Shee
ee ee

2

Sg ae
eis

1736 AMERICAN INTEREST IN INDIAN CULTURE

standards. It will be a mistake to try to convert us to Hinduism
in any of its aspects or to any other ism. (We have too
many isms of our own to contend with now.) Give us cold,
reasoned facts, and arguments without passion or sentimen-
tality. Thereby a sympathy will be created more genuine
than any dependent upon other appeals.

“I desire India to succeed, to rid herself of apparent defi.
ciencies, to take her place well up in whatever is io be the
future international order, and to command the respect and
dignified appreciation of the rest of the world.’?
The Third Session of the Indian History Congress,

Caicutta, 1939

The Third session of the Indian History Congress was
held on three successive days (5th, [6th and I7th
December 1939) in the commodious compound and rooms
of the Asutosh Buildings of the Calcutta University. By a
happy forethought of the authorities concerned, it had
been decided to hold the Sixteenth session of the Indian
Historical Records Commission at the same venue imme-
diately before the History Congress. The result was seen in
the record attendance of members and delegates representing
almost all the Indian Universities as well as the Government
departments and other institutions interested in the cause
of historical research in this country. The session of the
Congress was opened on the forenoon of the 15th December
in a spacious and beautiful pandal specially erected for
the occasion within the compound of the University Build-
ings. The proceedings started with a fine welcome address
delivered by the Chairman of the Reception Committee
(Hon. Khan Bahadur M. Azizul Haque), who said that
Bengal might not have historic sites of as great an antiquity
as some of the sites in northern and western India but still

she could boast of her historic sites Lke Tamluk and

Tribeni, Bishnupur and Jessore, Mahasthan and Paharpur,
Nabadvip and Vikrampur, Satgaon and Pandua, Gaud
and Murshidahad, Dacca and Chittagong, and above ail
of Calcutta as the place where was laid the foundation of
modern India and where the pioneers in the fields of Indian
history began their work and the university organised syste-
matic studies and researches into India’s past. H. E. the
Governor of Bengal then inaugurated the Congress by
saying that although the Congress was a comparatively

recent body, it represented a long and distinguished tradi-

tion of historical scholarship and that he recognised the

eae Re SS

So Gene

—

as

Ges

138 INDIAN HISTORY CONGRESS, CALCUTTA, 1939

value of historical researches inasmuch as there was no
such thing as a past which could be conveniently divorced
from the present. After His Excellency’s speech, the
Report of the Proceedings of the last session having been
presented by the General Secretary (Sir Shafaat Ahmad
Khan), the General President (Dr. R.C. Majumdar) delivered
his thoughtful address. His speech, besides taking stock
of the work of the previous year, contained a valuable
warning against the regional and denominational tendencies
in certain modern historical writings, and offered a number
of fruitful suggestions for future guidance. ‘‘In the ancient
period’, he said, ‘‘Indian History and civilisation were
vitally connected with the great civilisations which flourished
in Western Asia and Africa, and later they were still more
closely associated with practically the whole of Northern
and Eastern Asia. In the mediaeval period, India was a vital
link in the great chain of Islamic civilisation which bound
together a considerable part of the civilised world. Of the
modern period I need say but little, as it is too patent to
everybody how the events happening almost on the opposite
side of the globe are shaping the political destiny of the
country and seriously affecting her moral, material, and
economic conditions. It is obvious to me that we cannot
follow the currents of Indian history as phenomena isolated
from the rest of the world. I also find it difficult to believe
that a school of Indian History can really develop in India
unless our historical studies are widened and placed on a
broader basis.’’ Turning to the dangers facing Indian
historical scholarship, — he insisted that the historians must
rise above ‘nationalism and “‘break down the barrier of
provincialism and . overcome the influence of communalism
in historical studies.” Proceeding with his theme he
lamented the great short-coming of Indian scholarship, viz.,
“the lack of first-hand. knowledge about Chinese, Tibetan
ce and other foreign sources of | Indian history,’ and the dearth
: of Indian scholars j in the fields of Indus Valley civilisation
d ce ber fadion: sultares He. * concluded br saying that

‘wept

INDIAN HISTORY CONGRESS, CALCUTTA, 1939 139

the historians should now co-ordinate their efforts for the
preparation of a comprehensive history of India.

The afternoon of the 15th December and the whole of
the following day were devoted to the meetings of the
different sections of the Congress of which there were as
many as five this year,

Section I.—Archaic (sic) Period (President, Prof. A. S.
Altekar).

Section I].—Early Imperial (sic) Period (President, Prof.
K. A. Nilakantha Sastri).

Section IIl.—Early Mediaeval Period (President, Dr.
M. Nazim).

Section 1V.—Mughal Period including early Maratha-
Sikh History (President, Dr. Tarachand).

Section V.—Modern Period includmg later Maratha-
Sikh History (President, Prof. C. S. Srinivasachari).

The number of papers offered at the session is eloquent
of the growing popularity of the Congress. In Section I as
many as 2] papers were read, in Section I] 30 papers, in
Section III] 26 papers, in Section IV 24 papers, and in
Section V 32 papers.

By a proper observance of the time-limit for the reading
of papers it was possible to provide for discussions on the
more important of their numbers.

A notable feature of the Congress was ne Historical
Exhibition which was held in the historic University Senate

Hall and was opened by the Chief Minister (Hon. Mr.

A. K. Fazlul Huq). Here was shown on proper stands
and in suitable show-cases a large variety of antiquities
(terra-cottas, sculptures, bronzes, copper-plates, coins and
paintings, belonging tothe different collections of the Univer-
sity Asutosh Museum (including the famous P. C. Nahar
and the little-known Sundarban collections) and those of
Government departments, museums, learned institutions
and private individuals. Here also was shown a large
number of documents from the Imperial Records Depart-
ments as well as the Records, of the Eanieb and Bengal

140 INDIAN HISTORY CONGRESS, CALCUTTA, 1939

Governments. A fantern lecture on prehistoric India by Rao
Bahadur K. N. Dikshit on the evening of the 15th December
in the University Darbhanga Hall was another source of
attraction to the visitors. Asis usual on such occasions the
business of the Congress was not neglected, there being
one meeting of the Congress Executive which was followed
by the plenary and the concluding sessions of the Congress.
At these meetings among other things the Office-bearers
were elected for the following year and resolutions were
passed for exploring the avenues for financing the much-
talked of scheme of a comprehensive History of India to
be undertaken under the auspices of the Congress.

The Numismatic Society of India wisely decided to hold
its Annual Meeting (in the University Building) along with
the session of the Indian History Congress onthe 17th and
18th December. On the Ist day the President Rao
Bahadur K. -N. Dikshit delivered an excellent address in
course of which he reviewed the work of the preceding
year and pointed out the lines for future research. This
was followed by an informing paper on a newly~discovered
hoard of Sdtavahana coins read by Prof. V. V- Mirashi.
The second day was devoted to the reading of papers and
the business of the Society.

The authorities of the Congress arranged a varied pro-
gramme of entertainments which were appreciated by the
assembled members and delegates. These consisted of a
musical soirée at the Asutosh Hall, an enjoyable tea party
atthe garden and aviary of Dr. S.C. Law, a sumptuous
dinner party at the residence of Khan Bahadur Azizul

Haque, a steamer trip down the river and a short excursion

to the historic site of Triveni via Uttarpara and Chander-
nagore. The session was brought toa happy close bya
dinner party on the. evening of the 17th December at the
palatial residence of Dr. N. N. Law. For the entertain-
ment of the guests Dr. Law tastefully decorated and illumi-
nated: his: house and provided charming music. The guests
were taken, round, fis fares: library specially rich in its col-
Rae

INDIAN HISTORY CONGRESS, CALCUTTA, 1939 14:

lection of works and journals on Indian history and culture.
At the end of the dinner the President of the Congress
warmly thanked the host in a short speech to which the
latter gave a nice little reply expressing his gratification
that so many distinguished scholars graced his house by
their presence.

Altogether the 3rd Session of the Indian History Congress
proved to be a great success. The next session takes place
at Lahore on a date to be announced later.

U. N. Ghoshal

NOTES AND NEWS

The Greater India Society extends its most hearty con-
gratulations to its much-respected Purodha, Dr. Rabindra-
nath Tagore, on his receiving the high and well-deserved
honour of Doctorate of Literature (Honoris Causa) of the
Oxford University. The solemn ceremony of investiture
took place on the 7th August, 1940, at Santiniketan in the
presence of a distinguished gathering which included a
batch of graduates of Oxford University and the representa-
tives of Calcutta, Aligarh and Delhi Universities besides

members of the Governing Body of Dr. Tagore’s own

University, the Visva-Bharati. The proceedings started
with the chanting of some beautiful Vedic verses by Pandit
Vidhushekhar Bhattacharya and the singing of a wel-
come song by the choir of Dr. Tagore’s asrama. Then Mr.

_ Justice Henderson of the Cal cutta High Court, in accord-
~ ance with the Oxford tradition, presented the poet before

Sir Maurice Gwyer (representing the Vice-Chancellor of the
University) in a Latin speech. This excellent address, of
which an English translation was read by Sir S. Radha-
krishnan, began by eulogising the services of the poet’s
talented family. It then went on to describe “‘the astonish-

- ing range’”’ of the poet's versatile genius combined with “‘his

essential humanity’’, his famous Academy seeking to incul-
cate among the students a love of pure learning, and his
fearless criticism of the British Raj and of his fellow-citizens
on occasions of necessity. This was. followed by a nice
little speech from Six Maurice Gwyer formally admitting

_. “this most-beloved priest of the Muses’’ tothe coveted

degree. In acknowledging the high honour the poet made
a short but stirring speech in Sanskrit of which he read out
an English translation. He accepted the honour, he said, as
“a symbol of the undying human spirit’ and ‘‘amid the

present era of mounting anguish and yanishing worth”, he
NOTES AND NEWS 143

renewed his ‘faith in the perennial growth of civilisation
towards an ultimate purpose’. Sir Maurice followed with
an eloquent address in course of which he stressed the
prominence given by both the poet's and the Oxford Uni-
versity to the virtue of tolerance, “‘the foundation of true
democracy’? and after referring to the present world-crisis,
he hoped that the ultimate victory of democracy would pro-
duce “‘that true discipline of mind which alone can create
a free and tranquil world’’. He concluded with the prayer
that through the bonds which were forged that day there
might pass and repass a vital current in which the spiritual
forces of the West and the East might mingle and draw
strength from one another. A recitation in Sanskrit brought
the memorable function to a close.
We give below in extenso the above addresses : —

ADDRESS OF MR, JUSTICE HENDERSON

Vir Insignissime, Matris Oxoniae Gratissima Suboles,
Qui Domini

Vice-Cancellarii et Procuratorum vicem geris, . hodie
adest illustrissimus Indize filius, cuius in domo, ut in nulla
usquam alia, Horatianum illud

fortes creantur fortibus et honis

repreesentari videmus. Quid avum referam, primum illum
religionum ac disciplinze novee conditorem, inter primos
quoque e popularibus suis quos trans Oceanum dissociabilem
navigasse et usque ad ultimos Britannos advectos esse
constat? Quid patrem, virum rectissimum, religionum hunc
quoque vindicem acerrimum, cuius sanctitas ac sapientia
suis omnibus innotuit? Quid sororem, mulierem excultis-
simam, quee fictas de suis historias prima Indarum cons-
cribere ausa est? Quid fratrum illum trinionem, quorum
unus, ut patrice administrationi interesset, primus Indorum
ascitus est, alter in litteris ac philosophia, tertius in arte
Apellea inter eequales eminebat? Sed genti suze quartus
hic fratrum vita, ingenio, moribus tantum vere laudis addj-

a ee

Wecees tee ioe €

aie

spite ape

_. admittatur ad gradum Doctoris in Lit

144 - NOTES AND NEWS

tamentum contulit, ut de se ipse posset, nisi quidem viro
sanctissimo verecundia obstaret, eisdem quibus Scipio ille
verbis iure optimo preedicare
virtutes generis mieis moribus accumulavi.

Quid quod adest doctissimus litterarum artifex, sive vincto
numeris sermone utitur seu soluto? Ecce que lyrica, fabulas,
satiras, historias, omne fere scribendi genus tetigit, nullum
non ornavit. O miram in eodem viro fecunditatem, miram
facundiam! Qui, prout fert animi pene divini agilitas,
decet nos, ridet, exagitat, delectat, commovet, ea tamen
lege ut hominem vere esse, humani nihil a se alienum putan-
tem, semper appareat. Quid quod adest musicus, omnibus
velut numeris absolutus, novorum mille modorum repertor?
Quid quod philosophus eximius, qui rerum, hominum;
deorum denique naturam penitus perscrutatus, mentis illam
ataraxiam optatam a multis, a paucis conquisitam, iam
tandem est consecutus? Et tamen his ille studiis deditus
non sibi tantum vixit. Nihil enim antiquius ratus quam ut
puerl bonis artibus instituantur, scholae_illius egregiae, ubi

‘discipulis ad philosophandum informandis sapientissime

consulitur, est auctor idem atque fautor. Accedit quod
publico commodo umbratilem vitae condicionem non ita
praetulit ut pulverem ac solem reipublicac omnino detrecta-
verit:est ubi in forum descendere dedignatus non sit, est
ubi nos Britannos, est ubi preefactorum auctoritatem, siquid
perperam fieri visum sit, in iudicium vocare non reformida-
verit, est ubi cives errantes castigare sustinuerit. Quid plura?
Adest poeta et scriptor myrionous, adest musicus in arte
sua praeclarissimus, adest et verbo et re philosophus, adest
disciplinae ac doctrinae bonae fautor acerrimus, adest civi-
tatia defensor ardentissimus, adest .denique qui vitae ac
mortum. sanctitate omnes omnium ‘ubique approbationes sibi
windicavit. Itaque, Vice-Cancellario, Doctoribus Magistris
omnibus uno animo faventibus, praesento tibi virum
mousikotaton, Rabindranath Tagore, praemio Nobeliano
iam insignitum, ut Oxoniensium quoque lauream accipiat et
eris honoris causa.
ee

NOTES AND NEWS 145

ENGLISH TRANSLATION OF THE ABOVE

Honoured Sir, on whom the choice of your mother
Oxford has fallen to sit to-day in the place of the Vice-
Chancellor and Proctors, you have before you India’s most
distinguished son, in whose family no more perfect illustra-
tion can be found of that verse of Horace: ‘‘A noble line
gives proof of noble sires’’.

Let me recall his grand-father, the member of a new
religious faith and a new fraternity, who was one of the first
of his countrymen to cross the estranging sea and visit the
distant land of Britain; his father, a religious leader of
singular rectitude and burning faith, whose piety and wis-
dom distinguished him among all his countrymen. I recall
his gifted sister, and the first of her sex in India to attempt a
novel of Indian life; his three brothers of whom one was the
first Indian member of the Indian Civil Service, a second
was distinguished among his contemporaries in philosophy
and a third in literature and the arts. But the fourth brother
who is present before you now has by his life, his genius
and his character augmented so greatly the fame of his
house that, did his piety and modesty not forbid, none would
have a better right to say in Scipio's famous phrase: ““My
life has crowned the virtues of my line.’’ You see in hima
great scholar and a great artist, both in prose and in verse ;
one who has written poetry, romance, satire, history ; who
has left scarcely any field of literature untouched and has
touched nothing that he has not adorned. How rarely has
such richness of imagination been combined with such ele-
gance of style | How astonishing is the range of his versatile
genius, wisdom and laughter, terror and delight, the power
of stirring our deepest emotions | And yet we are always
conscious of his essential humanity, of a man who thinks
nothing beneath his notice, if only it is concerned with
mankind, You see in him a musician who seems to obey no
rules and yet has invented a thousand new melodies; a
distinguished philosopher deeply versed in natural philoso-

phy, in ethics and in theology and who has. at the last

8 Aen esto aiaetine het ana

rbetsuale

146 NOTES AND NEWS

achieved that complete serenity of mind sought by how
many and won by how few. Yet all dedicated as he has
been to those pursuits, he has not lived for himself alone ;
for deeming good education for the young the most vene-
rable of all institutions he has been the founder and director
of this famous Academy, whose purpose is by wise methods
to inculcate among its students-a love of pure learning.
Let it also be said that he has not valued a sheltered
life so far above the public good as to hold himself
wholly aloof from the dust and heat of the world outside ;
for there have been times when he has not scorned to step
down into the market-place ; when, if he thought that a
wrong had been done he has not feared to challenge the
British raj itself and the authority of its magistrates ; and
when he has boldly corrected the faults of his own fellow-
citizens. What more can 1 say > Here before you is the
myriad-minded poet and writer, the musician famous in his
art, the philosopher proved both in word and deed, the
fervent upholder of learning and sound doctrine, the ardent
defender of public liberties, one who by the sanctity of his
life and character has won for himself the praise of all
mankind. And so with the unanimous approval of the Vice-
Chancellor, the Doctors, and the Masters of the University, I
present to you a man most dear to all the muses, Rabindra-
nath Tagore, already a Nobel prizeman, in order that he
may receive the laurel wreath of Oxford also and be
admitted to the Degree of Doctor of Literature honoris causa.

SPEECH OF SIR MAURICE GWYER

Vir venerabilis et doctissime, musarum sacerdos dilec-
tissime, ego nomine Domini Vice-Cancellarii et auctoritate
totius Universitatis admitto te ad gradum Doctoris in Litteris
honoris causa. =

Venerable and Jesined’ Sir, most beloved priest of the
Muses, im the name of the: Vice-Chancellor and with the
authority of the whole University, merit you to the Degree
pee 4: Doctor of Retargh honorie Sava

ain’

Fe

NOTES AND NEWS 147
REPLY BY RABINDRANATH TAGORE
wag saaararazafaya: !
witsfer aPaa afcariar |
doa aenedt a fee azat sen feria
maar neraeeides Fe Seas: erenaaferat
nafrensitraa dat Tatar 2 fad sfarqre afea ofoait
Sat sfgat odtefeareat arqaracaa: || aarsenfa wadtsa-
watat | atecatqueamdtd wifgicd ware fat
TAMAS TTI A TRIMS a adel
array sia sfaaeg ward: |
qo eere ae: sda gare fated ga) sate
ford fer saa wee wa wa agar
aeafaerat |
afte f& cafret senfa yaoi: arr dmgeal eas
aerfag, alata Faas t
anf ¢ qa aweaniat fem fer 3 ari
qaadearaa sta: sdhes sereriacriaera aaa frafafa
Seenfi: det adtfacrd sastacarea | :
ai at fad earner arf sited wat
gfefidadsitaaedes t oat a sitRenrrenadiefagae
sfafmey) aadiaeas de ange: aga: ant ga ferart
ere aft FTA, | ,

WHEAT LRUBIRE eee as :

148 NOTES AND NEWS
ENGLISH TRANSLATION OF THE ABOVE

Delegates from Oxford University,

In honouring me, an Indian poet, your ancient seat of
learning has chosen to express its great tradition of huma.-
nity. This tradition, to-day, has acquired a deeper and
more pressing significance; I feel proud to accept its
message, and the recognition it conveys. as a symbol of the
undying spirit of man. I welcome you here at Santiniketan,
and | assure you that this friendly gift that you have brought
to me and to my country, will remain in our hearts and bid
us stand together for the common cause of civilisation.

In an era of mounting anguish and vanishing worth,
when disaster is fast overtaking countries and continents,
with savagery let loose and brutal thirst for possession
augmented by science, it may sound merely poetic to speak
of any emerging principle of world-wide relationship. But
Time’s violence, however immediately threatening, is cir-
cumscribed, and we who live beyond it and dwell also in the
larger reality of Time, must renew our faith in the perennial
growth of civilisation toward an ultimate purpose.

I accept this recognition from Oxford University asa
happy augury of an Age to come, and though | shall not live
to see it established, let me welcome this friendly gesture
as a promise of better days.

CONCLUDING ADDRESS BY SIR MAURICE GWYER

Sir, on behalf of the University Oxford I salute its
youngest Doctor, and I deem ita privilege indeed to have
taken part in this. ‘memorable ceremony, in which the Uni-
versity whose. representative I am has, in honouring you,
done honour to itself. [ shall not fail to convey to the
University your gracious words of acceptance, spoken in
that ancient tongue, the venerable mother from whom the
language of the University” 8 Address and the language which
_ | now speak trace alike their origin. |
_ Mou Sir, belong to. and have adorned a generation which
NOTES AND’ NEWS 149

perhaps more than any other in history exalted reason and
freedom of thought; but you have ever insisted that to these
must be added other virtues, graciousness, simplicity and
the love of beauty. And have not Santiniketan and my own
University this in common, that each bases its education
upon recognition of and respect for human personality ? Do
they not both attribute pre-eminence to the virtue of tole-
rance, since none can claim respect for his own personality
unless he is willing to respect that of others ? These indeed
are the foundation of true democracy, which has a spiritual
content and is something more than one of many kinds of
political mechanism; and its success has been, and will
always be, in proportion as those who live under it are
conscious of its spiritual and intellectual elements.

But in the present nightmare world the doctrines which
you and those who think with you have taught and practised
are in deadly peril ; and we are witnessing an attempt to
assassinate reason, to prescribe tolerance, and to crush the
human spirit beneath a monstrous materialism. In this
Magian conflict the liberty of the human soul itself is at stake
and the conflict must be fought out to the end, if darkness
is not to fall once more upon the earth. There is no compro-
mise and there is no truce in that war. _

We must not doubt, unless all our most cherished beliefs
are a mockery anda cheat, what the final issue will be,
though it may not come until after much blood and many
tears. But the victory would be barren indeed, if a new
generation is not bred and confirmed in that true discipline
of mind which alone can create a free and tranquil world.
The evil men who are now harrying Europe knew their
business well when in the countries they have ravished they
singled out for destruction the Universities and ancient seats
of learning, the sanctuary and refuge of the humanities.
Though war can be waged, as this war is being waged, in
defence of a sublime cause, and has power to evoke some
of the noblest qualities of mankind, yet in itself it is an
accursed thing, and its infection will destroy civilisation

9

Legg Tie Ae epee

150 NOTES AND NEWS

unless it is itself destroyed. But in the words which Milton
puts into the mouth of the apostate Angel, —
‘‘who overcomes
By force, hath overcome but half his foe’’,

and Apollyon must be met and conquered not on the field
of battle alone but also in that kingdom of ideas and of the
mind, where itis the teachers and philosophers who can
most effectively sustain the cause.

We have watched with dismay even in the years before
the war the substitution of emotion for thought and its
swift degeneration into blind and often hysterical submis-
sion to the will of a leader accountable to none but himself;
for unless a political society is invigorated by a multitude of
separate springs of thought and action, neither democracy
nor any system based upon the freedom of the mind can
hope to survive. {Is not the clamant need of our day hard
intellectual effort and the habit of independent judgment;
courage to face realities, and not to deny the existence of
problems we are too indolent to solve; reverence for the
spirit of an ancient culture, without servility to the past or
attempts to reverse the evolutionary process? Such | believe
to be the principles which inspire your teaching in this place,
and such are those of my own University.

Sir, Ithank you for your welcome. It is my earnest
prayer that through those bonds which have been forged
to-day between an ancient foundation and a new there may
pass and repass a vital current in which the spiritual forces
of the west and the east may mingle and if God will, draw
strength from one another. May the love of true learning
be ever cherished in their place; and may there ever be
granted to all their children, “hope still to find, strength still
to climb, the spheres.’*

Cine OR. At
ey ae

Editor’s Note

As we are going to Press, we have much pleasure in
announcing the publication of the results of archaeological
excavations in Malaya undertaken by Dr. and Mrs. H.G.
Quaritch Wales, Field-Director and Assistant Field-Director
respectively of the Greater India Research Committee.
This work which has appeared as a special number of the
Journal of the Malayan Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society
(Vol. XVII, Part I, February 1940) is the fruit of fourteen
months’ arduous field-work (between 1937 and 1939) in the
Malay States of Kedah. Perak and Johore. It was made
possible by generous grants of those States to which the
authors make grateful acknowledgments. The work
before us consists of two parts—the longer part under the
heading ‘Exploration and Research’ giving a plain narrative
of new facts brought to light by excavations, while the
shorter part summarises some of the authors’ broader de-
ductions from these facts. Fifteen figures of maps and
plans and eighty-nine plates enhance the usefulness of this
highly important publication which has thrown new light
on a number of points relating to early Indian colonisation
of Malay. Altogether thirty sites from Kedah and two
each from Perak and Johore have been explored by the
indefatigable authors who have already made their mark
by their momentous discoveries on the ancient site of
Srideva. We reserve a complete review of the present
publication for a future number of our Journal.

Annual Meeting of the Greater India Society

The Annual Meeting of the Managing Committee of the
Society was held in the University College of Science on the
19th July 1940, with Sir P. C. Ray, President of the Society
in the Chair. Among the items of business transacted at the
Meeting were the passing of the Annual accounts (as audi-
ted by Mr. P. K. Sen, Chartered Accountant), the election of
Patrons, Office-bearers, and other members of the Managing
Committee, and the election of the members of the Journal
Sub-Committee. By another resolution Drs. 5. K, Chatterjee
and Kalidas Nag were requested to call on Dr. Narendra
Nath Law in connection with the arrangements for celebrat-
ing the President’s completion of his 80th year and for
accommodation of the Society’s stock of publications.! We
give below extracts from the Annual Report of the Society
for 1939 which was adopted at the same meeting.

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE GREATER INDIA
SOCIETY for 1939.

General

“The Greater India Society completed the 12th year of its
existence in 1939. The Society’s record of work during the
year under review is ‘on the whole one of progress, although
the international situation could not but adversely affect its
interests. .

1. We have pleasure in announcing that Dr. Law has since agreed
most kindly to bear the whole cost of celebrating the President's
function which will take place some time after the autumn holidays.
(The Society also takes this opportunity of announcing that Dr, Law
has been good enough to undertake to place one of his ropms
permanently at the disposal of, the Society. for meeting its urgent

ira ines S “apcomsmopdation, Lahey
de

MEETING OF THE GREATER INDIA SOCIETY 153

Management

““No change took place in the constitution of the Managing
Committee during the year. The same was the case with
the personnel of the Journal Sub-Committee. The Honorary
Secretary continued to discharge the duties of Honorary Edi-
tor of the Society’s Journal over and above his other work.
The business of both committees was disposed of, as the
occasion arose, by circulation among the members.

Office

““No change took place in the office establishment.......
The typing for office work was done gratis as in former years,
by Mr. Ramesh Kumar Ghoshal, M.A., Mr. P. K. Sen very
kindly acted as Honorary Auditor of the Society’s accounts
for the year. The Committee takes this opportunity to con-
vey its heart-felt thanks to this last-named gentleman for the
offer of his valuable services for three years in succession.

Members and subscribers

“The number of members on the Society’s roll on the
3Ist December 1939 remained nearly the same as on the
corresponding date of 1938.... The number of subscribers to the
Society’s Journal showed ‘a slight decrease... The Committee
has the pleasant duty of thanking as in former years the
various Provincial Governments’ in: India and Burma, the
different Indian Universities, the Director-General of the
Archaeological Survey of India and the Superintendents of
various Archaeological circles, the Government Epigraphist
for India and the enlightened Governments of Baroda, Mysore
Travancore, Gwalior and Indore for their continued patronage
of the Society's Journal.

Finance

“The closing balance of the Society's accounts on the
31st December 1939 was Rs. 1355-7-8 as compared with Rs.
1148-9-8 the corresponding figure for the ‘previous year. As

against this pecpersie state of the Coal s finances must

154 MEETING OF THE GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

be set it commitments namely, the cost of publication of the
two under-mentioned works, Prof. Tucci’s Travels of Tibetan
Pilgrims in the Swat Valley and the English version of Dr. N.
J]. Krom’s Hindoe-Javaansche Geschiedenis. On the receipt
side the Committee has again most gratefully to acknowledge
the kind grant of Rupees four hundred from the National
Council of Education (Bengal) and Rupees one hundred
from Dr. Narendra Nath Law, an esteemed member of the
Managing Committtee of the Society. During the period
under review receipts under the head Sale of Books and
Pamphlets amounted to Rs. 184-1-6 with which may be
compared the figure for the preceding years; Rs, 415-12-6
(1936-37), & Rs. 543-8-9 (1935-36). This serious sethack is
partly to be attributed to the present international situation
and partly to the failure of the Society to get free advertise-
ments of its publications as before...On the expenditure side
the charges under Publications proved as usual to be the
heaviest item, accounting for not less than Rs. 448-0-9 with
which may be compared the corresponding figures from the
Jast Annual Report namely, Rs. 911-5-0 (from Ist April 1937
to 3Ilst December 1938). The next heaviest item consisted
of Allowances to Staff namely, Rs, 165-3-0. This included the
typist’s and proof-reader’s charges for the two issues of the
Journal. This figure compares favourably with the corres-
ponding figure in the preceding report namely, Rs. 208-0-0.
The postal charges during the year under review amounted
to the modest sum of Rs, 86-7-6, the corresponding figures
from the last Annual Report being Rs. 193-14-3,

Lectures

“As in previous ‘years the Society arranged a number of
popular lectures in accordance with the terms of its agree-
ment with the National Council of Education, Bengal. The
range and. variety of the lectures may be realised from the
under-mentioned lists : (1) Art’ and Archaeology in the
: North- -West-Frontier Province (Dr. Kalidas Nag), (2) Early
eae free , in Bama. aD Aue Hina ae) 3) Indian

MEETING OF THE GREATER INDIA SOCIETY 155

Culture in Afghanistan (Dr. U. N. Ghoshal), (4) Indian Influ-
ences on Burmese Literature (Pandit Giris Chandra Vidya-
binede), (5 &6) Indian Influences on Burmese Monastic Life
Pandit (G. C. Vidyabinode} and (7 & 8) Indian Influences
on Burmese Social Life (Pandit G. C. Vidyabinode). To
all these gentlemen who have benefited the Society with
their lectures the Committee offers its most grateful thanks.

Publications

“Two issues of the Journal of the Society (Vol. VI, Nos. I
and 2} appeared in course of the year. The Committee notes
with satisfaction that notwithstanding the outbreak of the
European war contributions were not lacking from the pen
of leading scholars both Indian and foreign. It has also to be
mentioned that there was no falling off in the number
and variety of books sent to the Journal for review as well
as in the number of first-grade Journals on its exchange list.
All the new accessions of the Society were made over,
according to the existing arrangement, to the Calcutta Uni-
versity Library for being kept as a separate collection.
Among the publications taken in hand by the Society, the
printing of Prof. G. Tucci’s Travels of Tibeian Pilgrims in
the ‘Swat Valley was all but completed, only the Tibetan
Text being kept by the author for correction of proofs.
Another work namely, the English translation of Prof.
Krom’s Hindoe-Javaansche Geschiedenis, after being revised
by the author was sent to the translator for further improve-
ment of the language. The Committee repeats the regret ex-
pressed in the preceding Annual Report that all the Bulletins
of the Society except one continue to remain out of stock or
very nearly so. The Committee earnestly trusts that the
revised editions of these useful monographs for which there
is a steady demand might be undertaken at no distant date.

Congress and Conference

“During the last year the Society was glad to accept’ the
invitation from the authorities of the Tenth All-India Oriental

is6 | MEETING OF THE GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

Conference at Hyderabad for sending delegates to the Con-
ference. But the Conference was unfortunately postponed
owing to the international situation. At the third session of the
Indian Historical Congress held at Calcutta in December
last the Society was represented by a number of delegates
including Dr. U. N. Ghoshal, Mr. J. N. Banerjea and Dr.
Nihar-Ranjan Ray. All these gentlemen actively participated
in the work of the Conference, Dr. U. N. Ghoshal serving

as Secretary of one of the sections.

Conclusion

In concluding this brief report on the working of the
Society for the last year the Committee cannot but convey
its heart-felt thanks to those esteemed patrons and well-
wishers of the Society who have helped it in various ways.
Grateful mention has already been made of the kind help of
the authorities of the National Council of Education, Bengal,
of Dr. Narendra Nath Law and of Mr. P. K. Sen. Mention has
also been made of the valuable help given by the Editor of
_ The Modern Review as regards advertisement of the Society’ 5
publications. The Committee, however, feels that funds are
urgently needed for meeting some of the Society’s immediate
needs, Such specially is the need for housing the Society's
growing collection of publications. Still greater is the need
for young recruits for continuing the good work that the
Seciety has started on such a modest scale. The Committee
appeals to all lovers of Indian culture, Indian and foreign to
take up this work and it earnestly trusts that its appeal will
not go in vain.”
Principal Contents of Oriental Journals

Jaarboek van het Koninklijk Bataviaasch Genootschap

van Kunsten en Wetenschappen, VII, 1940

This comprehensive report of the Royal Batavian
Society for 1939, after a brief survey of the administration
of the Society, describes the work of conservators of diffe-
rent sections, under the heads: {A) Pre-historic collection,
(B) Archaeological collection, (C) Historical collection,
(D) Ceramic collection, (E) Musicological collection, (F)
Ethnography collection, and (G) Mss. collection. In section
A, the objects described are mostly axes, chellean tools
and armlets. Among the objects described by Dr. W. F.
Stutterheim in section B, there are bronze and stone images
of Nandi, Buddha, Vasudhara and Avalokite$vara, ma
coins, gold linga, ear-rings, finger-rings and  gold-plates
with single-word inscriptions. Under section C, Dr. van
der Hoop describes some acquisitions of highly artistic
interest which are well-illustrated. Section D mentions a
porcelain plate of the 15th century, incense pots of 13th
and [6th centuries (all of Chinese workmanship) some ex-
cellent vases and stone objects, all of which are beautifully
illustrated. Section E, which is well described by Dr.
van der Hoop mainly refers to canvas paintings. Under
section G, Drs. Poerbatjaraka and Pigeaud describe acqui-
sitions of some new Javanese Mss.

Tijdschrift voor Indische Taal- Land- en Volkenkunde,
LXXX, afl. 2, 1940.

In his paper, Remarks on Onomatopoeia, sound-symboli-
sm and word-jormation apropos of the Theories of
Maxwell, Prof. J. Gonda while recognising Maxwell’s
profound knowledge of Malay languages strongly criticises
his unscientific and unsystematic method of research.

158 PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF ORIENTAL JOURNALS

Bijdragen tof de Taal- Land-en Volkenkunde yan
Nederlandsch-Indie, DI. 99, afl. 1, 1940.

In the paper Taalbeschouwing en Taalbeoejening,
J. Gonda reviews the scientific basis of language-study with
special reference to the languages of the Indian Archipelago
and views of previous authors on the subject.

Dr. N. J. Krom in his paper Tjandi Papak suggests that
what Sieburgh calles Candi Papak is Candi D., which is
the find spot of the Leiden Prajfiaparamita and perhaps the
mortuary temple of the ancestors of Singasari and Majapahit
kings.

Djawa, No. 2, 1940

Mr. Wediodiningrat in the paper Fragmenten uit het
Dewaroetji, gives a summary of the Old-Javanese poem
Devaruci as adapted by Jasadipura. In course of this he
attempts to explain the inner significance and philosophical
background of the poet's theme.

Oudheidkundig Verslag 1939

lt gives a report of the many-sided activities of the
Archaeological Department of Netherlands-India during
the year. Among other points we notice continuation of
restoration of the main temple of the Lara Jonggrang com-
plex and completion of the restoration of Candi Gebang.
The remains at Lie Hwat Gie at Surakarta yielded a group
of ten Guru images, 12 Durgas, 3 Sivas, 1 Visnu, | Brahma,
3 Ganeéas, 6 Mahakalas, 1 Nandigvara, and other objects.
Two inscriptions were discovered at Surakarta, one of
King Balitung of 905 A. D. and the other of Dang Acarya
Munindra Belonging to 885 Be re

H.B.S.

_ Report of the ‘quparintandents Archaeological whivey of
Burma, for the year 1938-39,

Under the head ‘Exploration and Research,’ the Superin-

tendent reports | the results oy his. excavation fs a mound

j
i
4

i

PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF ORIENTAL JOURNALS 159

in the suburb of Rangoon. This revealed the remains of
a ruined stiipa with terra-cotta votive tablets, a relic
chamber with numerous objects, a few laterite statues of
Buddha and a bronze statue of Dipankara Buddha supposed :
to belong to the Gupta School. Under the section Miscel-
laneous Notes, the Superintendent publishes an excellent
edition of the famous gold-leaf Pali Ms. of Old Prome, the
need for such an edition being strongly expressed by Dr.
Nibar-Ranjan Ray in his paper on “‘The Early Buddhism
of Burma’’ contributed to this Journal (/GIS., Vol. VI,
No. I, p. 47).

U.N. G.

‘Printed and Published by
Sj. J. C. Sarkhel at the Calcutta Oriental Press, Led,
9, Panchanan Ghosh Lane, ‘Calcutta.

CORRECTION SLIP
I.GIS., Vol, VI, No. i

Page line for read
144 7 as or
145 Z Java Java
I.G.1.8., Vol. VII, No. i
3 25 west east
44 20-22 The genealogical table should be read as

follows :—

Indravarman

Yagovarman | (1) Mahendravarman = Mahendradeyi= (2) Jayavarman IV

| Rajendravarman Harsavarman [I

Harsavarman | Tsanavarman I]

Page 44 1. 28 ajter TaKey add in Angkor Thom
a 1. 29 for girl read giri

Page 461. 13 omit hyphen after K hiner

Page 50: the diagram should be read as follows: —-

Phimlanakas
x
Baphluon x
; Ba on
gn crternns Koseteenees
x
: _XPhnom~

. .. Bakhen

Angkor |———

CRERM DRONES Ee Ee
+N one aeeunenraraceens

FREAD CS One eu teasrdaca inn adas ae ae waa ee ‘
oN Ste~

SE SE AUS Dapp

Select opinions on the Journal of the Greater India

Society
Dr. N. J. Krom (Leiden):

‘Tt have much pleasure in..-......congratulating you as
the editor of so sound a volume containing new and
interesting information. May it be the first of a long series,
maintaining the same high standard’’.

Dr. George Goedés (Hanoi) :

“J have read with much interest the first issue of the
Journal of the Greater India Society, which contains
valuable papers by prominent scholars.....»’*

Dr. G. Tucci (Rome):

‘*Your Journal is becoming one of the leading reviews.
Dr. Ludwig Bachhofer (Munich) :

“A careful study has proved the serious and surely
scientific character of the Journal.”

Dr. W. Percival Yetts (London) |

“I have read with much pleasure and profit the
Journal......”"

Dr. F. D. K. Bosch (Batavia):

‘* ....the last issue of the Journal......contained.....-highly
interesting things on ‘the Archipelago, proving to what
extent Hindu-Javanese and Sumatran history and archaeo-
logy may profit in the future, from the experience and
knowledge of Indian scholars..-..-”” 7

Select opinions on “Indian influences on the Literature
of Java and Bali’ By Himansu Bhusan Sarkar, M. A.
(Pp. 415. Price Rs. 6/-) me
Dr. Th. Pigeaudweiters'in Diawa, xvi
“By his acquaintance with Indian literature, an Indian
rsuch as Mr. Sarkar is. most probably much more
petent than x to recognise Andian elements in

: baie ete

( a)

Javanese texts, by clarifying and explaining these things,
from his knowledge of Sanskrit literature. It appears
to me that the progress of Indian writers, such as
Mr. Sarkar in this direction, that of literary text-criticism and
detail, is most promising for the enhancement of our
knowledge of Javanese literature.”" (Translated)

Dr. M. Winternitz in course of a long review in Archiv
Orientalni, (viii, 2, 1936) writes: —

“Mr. Sarkar’s is the first comprehensive attempt of
viewing the problem of Indian influences on the literature
of Java and Bali from the point of view of the history
of Sanskrit literature and Indian culture......Not only the
Indologist who wishes to follow up the facts of Indian
literary achievements on their wanderings outside India,
but also the ethnologist to whom the study. of mixture of
cultures is a subject of intrinsic interest, will find Mr.
Sarkar’s book an excellent guide through the maze of
Indo-Indonesian cultural relations. We hope this valuable
publication which appears as No. | of the Greater India
Society’s new series of “‘Greater India Studies,’’ may
soon be followed by other as interesting studies’.

_ Dr. George Coedés writes in the Bulletin Fran¢aise
d'’ extreme Orient (Ixxxiv, no. 2):

‘The author passes successively in review the diverse
branches of this literature giving in afew cases sufficient
detailed summaries of the principal texts. On this point
the author has done real service not only to his compatriots
desirous of knowing the.expansion of their national literature,
but also to those who do not read Dutch.” (Translated).

To be had of HAY tn ee
' The Manager, GREATER INDIA SOCIETY,
35 Badur Bagan Row, P.O. Amherst Street
CALCUTTA —

3 ournal of the Greater India Society

lesued twice every year, in January and in July. lt 1s
the only Journal in India: concerned with the investigation
of Indian cultural influences on foreign’ lands. Besidesa__
large number of original articles from the. ‘pen. of nine

ead Archipelago. (K. A. Nilakanta Sasiri);

in. Kambuja_ Studies (B. R- Chatteres) ;.

Indian and’ Indonesian Culture (O. C, Gangol
oks ice (single ec Bf

PUBLICATIONS OF THE
Greater India Society

BULLETINS

1. Greater india—By Dr, Kalidas Nag (to be re-issued).

2. india and China—By Dr. Prabodh Chandra Bagehi (to be re-tssued).

3. Indian Culture in Java and Sumatra—-Revised and enlarged edition. Part f,
Text—By Dr: B. R. Chatterji; Part: ‘FT: ‘Inseriptions—By Dr, N. P.
Chakravarti and Dr. B, R. Chatterji Rs.

ved lhe india and Central Asia—By Dr. N. P. Chakravarti (to be re-ieuedy
'./ & Ancient indian. Culture in Afghanistan—By Dr. U. N. Ghoshal

25

1,

PUBLICATIONS

| 4 ‘Anelent indian Colonies in the Far East—Vol. I, CHAMPA—By Dr,

ons sa Gk “Majumdar. : . RS. 15,
Ancient Indian Colonies in the Far East—Vol. LI, SUVARNADVIPA—By
oDr. R: Cy ‘Majumdar. b Part I Political History, Rs. 10. Part IT Cultural
History: oe Rs, 10. |
le Hindu Law: and Custom—(Only authorised English translation of Dr.
“| Julius Jolly’s Recht und Sitte)—By. Dr, B. K. Ghosh. Rs. 10-8
1. Social Life in Ancient tndia (Studies. in Viatsyfiyana’s K dmastitra)—By

A eee Prof. H.C. Chakladar. se Rs. 4,
Ee Be Pratima Laksanam (Sanekrit Sue ‘Tibetan)—By Prof. P. N, Bose ie
By Indian Literature in’ China and the Far East—Dy. Mr. P. K. when!
. T, indian Colony of Siam—By_ Prof. P..N. Bose. — Sin cage it
Behe ae Zea | UA (Hindi. edition of Bulletin No. 1) Fe, be re-issued), |
mec . Se cy SIs. (Bengali edition of Bulletin. No, Vee Re. 1. |

a 40, intio-Javanese History. (Only authorised’ English translation of Dr. N.J.
. Krom’s H indoe-Javaansche. Geschiedenis. _ With, up-to-date notes hy Dr
Krom)—By. Himansu Bhusan Sarkar, M. AL (in the agree

: a GREATER INDIA STUDIES

“§ndian. ‘Influences: on the Literature: of, Java and ‘any Aiea.
“\ Bhusan Sarkar, MAL aoe Rs: 6,
2 Dison of ‘Tibetan Pilgrims in he swat Valley—By Prof. Ge ‘Taeei,

Prices are exclusive of postage.) tees

: To be hed i ‘the Manager, ‘OREATER | INDIA socieTy,
