vue
ie

THE JOURNAL O
GREATER INDIA SOCIETY
VOL. IX

41942

Digitized by fe}

CHIGAN

Unasi of
hiohijai
vis

Select Contents of Oriental Journals fi
Additions to our Library

wrlvm.
THE

JOURNAL

OF THE

GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

daNuARY: 1942 No. 1

EDITED BY

U, N, GHOSHAL

Articles =

Dyipantara (K. A. Nilkanta. Sastri)

Temples at Pagan (Sarasi Kumar Saraswati)

Notices of Books :

W. C. Osman Hill, The Physical Anthropology of the Existing
Veddabs of Ceylon—Part 1, (Tarak Chandra Das); Jitendranath

Banerjea, The Development of Hindu. Iconography (U.N.
Ghoshal); Kalidas Nag, India and the Pacific World (U; N.
Ghoshal); T. Burrow, A Translation of the Kharostbi’ Docu-
ments from Chinese Turkestan (Suniti Kumat Chatterjec); R.
Vasudeva Poduval, A Short Guide to Padmanabbepuram (U.
N. Ghoshal); R. Vastideva Poduval, Travancore Inscriptions—A
topographical List (U. N: Ghoshal); A Report on the Working
of the State. Museum, Pudukkottai for Fasli 1350 (U. N.
Ghoshal) 2 455 aE

Editorial Notes
Obituary Notice:

Edward Denison Ross (Suniti Kumar Chatterjee)

Published by—
THE GREATER INDIA SOCIETY, CALCUTTA
; Agents outside India

Mesits. LUZAC & CO, 46 Great Russell Street, London, w. ¢.

UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

29.
47.

49.
5!
57
Greater India Society (Established 1927)

Aims and Objects

+ To organise the study of Indian Culture in Greater India (i.e.
India Minor, Indo-China and Insulindia) as well as in China,
pan, and other countries of Asia.

2. To arrange for publication of the results of researches into the
history of India’s spiritual and cultural relations with the outside world.

3. To create an interest in the history of Greater India and
connected problems among the students in the schools, colleges, and
Universities of India by instituting a systematic study of figose subjects
and to take proper steps to stimulate the same.

4. To popularise the know!edge of Greater india by organising
meetings, lantern lectures, exhibitions and conferences.

Membership Rules
1. The annual subscription payable by members is Rs. 12/- only.

Members are entitled to receive the publications of the Society at
concession rates and copies of the Journals of the Society free of cost.

2. Resident members may have access to the Society's collection
of books, pamphlets and periodicals etc. on application either to
the Honorary Secretary of the Society or the Librarian, Calcutta
University. The Society’s collection is housed, by arrangement with
the Calcutta University authorities, in the University Library.

Officers and Members of the Managing Committee
Greater India Society, 1940

President—Sir P. C. Ray, Kt., D.Sc.

Vice-Presidents—Rao Bahadur K. N. Dikshit, MA. F.R.A.SB.
O. C. Gangoly, Esq., F.R.A.S.B.

Hony. Secretary—Prof. U. N. Ghoshal, M.A., Ph.D., F.R.AS.B.

Hony. Joint Secretary—Dr. Kalidas Nag, M.A., D.Litt. (Paris.)

Other Members of the Committee—Dr. Narendra Nath Law, M.A.
Ph.D.; Prof. Suniti Kumar Chatterjee, M.A., D.Litt.
Dr. Prabodh Chandra Bagchi, M.A. D.Litt, (Pas
Dr. Nalinaksha Dutt, M.A., Ph.D., D.Litt, (Lond.); Prof.
Vidhushekhara Bhattacharya; Dr. Nihar-Ranjan Ray, M.A.,
Ph.D., D.Litt, (Leiden): Jitendranath Banerjea, Esq., M.A.i
TN.’ Ramachandran, Esq., M.A.

ae

THE JOURNAL

GREATER INDIA SOCIETY
Von. 1X JANUARY: 1942 No. 1
Dvipantara

By Pror. K. A. NILAKANTA SASTRI

About ten years ago Sylvain Lévi established the correct
form of the word rendered into Kouen-louen in a Sanskrit-
Chinese Lexicon compiled by a Central Asian monk, Li-yen,
of the kingdom of Koutcha; the Sanskrit word is dvipantara.'

Considering the apparently very corrupt form in which
the Sanskrit words are given in the lexicon, this must be
considered in itself a great gain, and Dr. P. C. Bagchi, who
knows more about the lexicon than any one else, has
accepted the correctness of his master’s restoration, and
stated further?: “We may add that the tradition localising
the dvipantara in Indonesia has persisted in India to this
day. Even recently while speaking of the islands to which
exiles are sent, people spoke not of the Andamans or of
‘Tennasserim, but of dvipantara.”” This statement, | may say,
holds good of South India as well.

But the use of the term in ancient times is decidedly
of greater historical interest, and Sylvain Lévi himself, in the
article cited above, discussed several passages, mostly drawn
from the Kathdsarit-sagara, in which the term dvipdntara
occurs. He also cited Manu Ill. 158 and Baudhayana

1 BKI, Vol. 88, pp. 621-7.
2 Deux Lexiques Sanskrit-Chinois, Tome ii (1937), p. 349, ”. 28.

Google
2 K. A. NILAKANTA SASTRI

Dharmasitra 2.1.2.2. on prohibition of sea-voyages
(Samudrayayin and Samudrasamydnam) and the glosses of
Kullika and Govindasvami thereon where the term
dvipantara occurs.

It is curious by the way to note how this prohibition
against sea-voyages ie a very old affair and how very syste-
matically it has been disregarded in practice ‘Mough the
ages. Baudhayana, for instance, places it at the head of
pataniyani, of sins which according to his annotator are only
a little less heinous than mahdapatakas, and prescribes a three
years’ penance for it. Yet we have incontrovertible evi-
dence from the epigraphy of Indonesia of orthodox Brahmins
having crossed the sea to perform the most meritorious
Vedic sacrifices in the lands colonised by them long after
the age of Baudhayana. Are we to assume that these
Brahmins, having crossed the sea once, purified themselves
by the prescribed penance in the new lands? Are we
further to assume that there was no regular intercourse bet-
ween the Brahmins in India and their brethern abroad, or
that each voyage was followed by a penance? True we
have no definite data before us, but he would be a bold man
who would answer these questions in the affirmative without
any hesitation.

Sylvain Lévi came to the conclusion that like Kouen-
louen in Chinese, Dvipantara in Sanskrit was applied to the
Islands and the continent of the ‘Southern Seas’ as the
Chinese called them. Let us note also this. Among the
citations discussed by Lévi, there are two which use dvipan-
tara and dvipanta in the plural viz.,

(1) tasya dvipantaregvasti sarvegu api gatdgatam.
“He goes to and fro among all the other islands’ (Tawney);

(2) nagari_ tvadabhipreta duvipantegu ruta punah—
*...is situated in one of the distant islands’. It seems possi-
ble that the plural in these instances is just in accordance
with the ordinary rule of Sanskrit grammar that the names
of the countries must be used in the plural, and if this is the
correct view, duipantara may be treated as more or less the
proper name of the entire region specified. The name in

Google
DVIPANTARA 3

that case would be one describing the lands concerned from
the standpoint of India. India is one dvipa—Jambudvipa;
Malaya is its sister—dvipantara—across the sea. It is of course
‘well known that duipa in these contexts does not mean ‘island’
exactly.

There are two passages, one in Sanskrit and the other
in Tamil#n which the word dvipdntara occurs and which
both go far to confirm the correctness of Sylvain Lévi's sur-
mise. The Sanskrit verse is so well known that it is a sur-
prise that it has not been taken into account so far in the
discussion; it occurs in the Raghuvaméa (VI. 57) of Kalidasa
in Sunanda’s description of the Kalinga king Hemangada to
Indumatt on the occasion of her svayamvara; among the
amenities the princess could enjoy if she chose Hemangada
for her husband was this:

anena sardharh viharamburaseh
firegu tlivana-marmaregu/

dvipantara-’nita-lavanga-pugpaih
apakrta-sveda-lavé_ marudbhih/ }

‘The bride is told by her maid that if she chose the ruler
of Kalinga for her husband, she could sport with him on the
shore of the ocean in the midst of rustling palms, while the
winds wafting the flowers of cloves from the dvipantara
remove the sweat from her skin. It takes no effort to see
that the land described as the home of the cloves, lavanga, is
the Malay peninsula. It must be noted at the same time
that all the commentators on this verse fail to exhibit the
slightest inkling of this. But this is perhaps not surprising
as Kalidasa’s political geography has baffled his commenta-
tors at many other points.

‘The other reference occurs in the life of Tirumangai
Alvar as narrated in the Guruparamparai, Arayirappadi, one
of the earliest hagiologies of Tamil Vaignavism. The work
may be taken to date from the twelfth or thirteenth century
A.D., Tirumangai was casting about for funds with which
to complete the plans he had made for the renovation of the
Ranganatha temple at Srirangam, and he hit upon the idea
of robbing the Buddhist vihara at Negapatam of its Buddha

Google
4 K. A. NILAKANTA SASTRI

image of solid gold. In this project, the information given
by an old Vignava lady residing at Negapatam was found
very useful. It was to this effect: “The artisan who made
this golden image and the Vimana under which it is enshrined
lives at present in dvipantara.’ This statement was enough
to send Tirumangai to dvipantara where he had_no great
difficulty in identifying the house of the celebratedrtist and
getting him, by a ruse, to surrender the secret of the cons-
truction of the vimana which enabled the dlvar to enter
the temple easily and remove the golden image according
to plan.

Obviously in this story dvipantara is not any other island,
or an indefinite distant island, as it is usually understood,
but some specific country which needed no further desi
for its identity to be established; in short, dvipantara
proper name. May we not suggest that this term was speci-
fically applied to Malaya, Malayadvipa, which was the ‘other
island’ across the sea to a person speaking from India? If
this is correct, Chinese Kouen-louen must be taken to mean
definitely the entire Indo-Chinese peninsula, if not merely
Malaya.

We must, however, beware of pressing too far these
suggestions derived from the Central Asian Chinese Lexicon
and supported by the usages we have discussed above. The
Chinese term in the equation, Kouen-louen, is used by other
writers in other widely different applications as even a cur-
sory glance through Ferrand’s celebrated article on the sub-
ject in Journal Asiatique (1919) would show.’ On the other
side the Sanskrit term dvipantara does not get completely free
of its grammatical origin anyad dvipam dvipantaram, and
develop into a full-fledged proper name, as the vacillation
in usage between the singular and plural forms shows. Still
there is enough before us to justify our recognising at least
a pronounced tendency in Indian usage to localise duipantara

in the Malay peninsula with some of the larger islands in
its neighbourhood.

3, See also Etudes Asiatiques, ii, pp. 261-3.

Google

Temples at Pagan*

By S. K. SARASWATI, M.A,

Paggn Arimarddanapura, the great temple city of
Burma, is situated in the fertile plains of the Irrawady high
up the river in what is known as the dry zone. ‘There is
very little rainfall in the country around, a fact that is res-
ponsible for the preservation, total or partial, of many of the
numerous monuments that came to adorn this semi-desert
region during the two centuries of the most feverish archi-
tectural activity. The greatness of the city begins with the
accession of king Anawrahta (Aniruddha), who came to the
throne in 1044 A.D, and initiated an epoch of all round
progress and reform in Upper Burma. With the help of
Shin Arahan he introduced the southern form (Hinayana)
of Buddhism in Pagan in suppression of the Tantrik Ari cult,
which hitherto held the field. He invaded and conquered
Thaton in lower Burma and brought back, with the captive
Talaing king Manuha, Hinaydna monks and priests, able
craftsmen and artisans and cartloads of sacred manuscripts,
that proved to be important contributory factors in the rising
greatness of Pagan. As the Talaing chronicle says, “From
that time henceforth Thaton was desolate, but Pagan
flourished like unto a heavenly city.”! The conquest of
‘Thaton further opened up a prolific contact and intercourse
with influences from the mainland that reached the delta.
Anawrahta also, gave the start for the great building activity
that was zealously followed by his successors, who vied

* Very little is known outside Burma about the Pagan monu-
ments as the published reports are rather scanty. For much of the
materials of this paper the author is indebted to Dr. Niharranjan Ray,
MA, D.Lett. & Phil, F.LA., whose first-hand observations, embodied
in his unpublished thesis on the architecture of Burma, the author
has been allowed to use freely.

1 HG. Quaritch Wales, Towards Angkor, p. 213.

Google
6 S. K. SARASWATI

with one another in raising up monuments after monuments
in honour of their much revered faith. In 1287 Pagan was
overrun and sacked by the Mongol hordes of Kublai Khan
and it lost its rank of a royal city. Thus ended a dynasty
of kings, whose intense religious fervour covered, within a
period of a little more than two centuries, an extensive arid
tract of country with visible symbols of the faith in the shape
of monuments of every conceivable form. ““The sun-
scorched wilderness” blossomed forth “‘into the architectural
magnificence of Pagan.”’*

A survey of the Pagan monuments, now in various stages
of ruin or preservation, amply bears out the magnificence of
the city'in days gone by. They cover a tract of country
nearly 100 square miles in area and comprise the following
places and villages in the Myingyan district: (1) Nyaung-u,
(2) Wet-ky’ (3) Taungbi-leya, (4) Pagan Myoma, (5) Myin
Pagan, (6) Thiyipyitsaya, (7) Twinywa, (8) Pwazu, (9) Min-
nanthu, (10) Taungba and (I!) Thayetkon.* But very little
of what was there can be seen now, as a considerable num-
ber of the monuments have fallen into ruin, and it is said
that the last king of Pagan, Narathihapate, more generally
known as the king “who fled from the Chinese”, had dis-
mantled 1,000 large stiépas, 10,000 smaller ones and 4,000
square temples for materials to prepare defences against
Kublai Khan.‘ Yet the remains that still stand are by no
means inconsiderable, and they give us an idea of the innu-
merable number of monuments that came to adorn this
dead city in the days of its greatness. Confined within a
circumscribed locality they form a most compact architec-
tural group representing a distinct contribution to the history
of Eastern architecture. Unfortunately the reports are scanty
and, barring the famous Ananda, no details are available even
of the other equally pretentious monuments. The architec-
tural survey of Pagan, long announced by the Archaeological

2 G.H. Harvey, History of Burma, p. 29.
3 Report, Archacological Survey of Burma, 1918, p. 4.
4 Taw Sein Ko, Archacological Notes on Pagan, pp. 5-6.

Google
TEMPLES AT PAGAN 7

Survey of Burma and expected to contain a methodical and
scientific history of Pagan architecture from its first beginnings
to its sudden stop, has not yet been published and is being
eagerly awaited.

In spite of the ravages of time and man the torrid plains
of Pagan rear even today hundreds of large and small brick
monurtents in different stages of preservation and it is diffi-
cult to take all of them into consideration within the com-
pass of a short paper. It is proposed hence to confine the
present study to a discussion of the temples that are sure
to attract the admiring attention of even the casual visitor to
this deserted imperial city. But here too an exhaustive
treatment of each and every temple is out of the question.
For our scope it will be sufficient, 1 hope, to discuss the
different types and their representative examples along with
their antecedents and associations.

The numerous temples, apart from other monuments, at
Pagan may be divided into three distinct groups. All the
groups, however, appear to belong to a commen tradition,
the distinction being merely in det In general concep-
tion and ideology they may be said to represent but one
style, which may be termed as “Indo-Burmese”. A des-
cription of the representative examples along with their
typical features is sure to bring this out.

‘The first group appears to be characteristic of the Ith
century A.D., though the type may be found to have sur-
vived till late in the 12th. Of the important examples of this
group, that still stand, may be mentioned, besides the cele-
brated Ananda, the Nanpaya temple, the Nagayon temple,
the Kubbyaukkyi temple, the Seinnyet Ama temple, the Shwe
gugyi temple, the three temples of the Payathonju group.
etc., all belonging to the IIth century A.D., except the
last-mentioned two, which are dated respectively in the 12th
and the 13th. Most of these temples bear Talaing inscriptions
on their walls, for which these temples are commonly said

5 In this discussion we leave out the Mahabodhi temple, which,
to all intents and purposes, is a copy of the famous shrine at Bodhgaya.

Google
8 S$. K. SARASWATI

to belong to the Talaing type. The Patothamya, traditionally
ascribed to the 10th century A.D., and the Abeyadana
built by Kyanzittha (c. 1084 A.D.), represent a sub-variety
of this group, as will be taken note of later on. ‘The second
group is represented best by the lofty Thatbyinnyu temple.
Among other specimens of this group may be mentioned the
Gawdawpalin temple, the Sulaimani temple, the Thominlo
temple, the Thitewada temple, etc. The third group may be
said to be rather scarce, and among the representative ex-
amples may be mentioned the Dammayangyi and the
Dammayajaka temples. The second and the third groups
first make their appearance in the 12th century A.D. and
may be found to have been in vogue simultaneously till the
subversion of the dynasty at Pagan towards the end of the
13th century A.D. King Narapatisithu, who reigned from
1174 to 1198 A.D., was responsible for the construction of
the Gawdawpalin, which belonged to the second group, as
well as of the Dammayajaka, which belonged to the third.
As already observed, all the groups belong fundamentally to
one stylistic tradition and differ but very little in general plan
and arrangement. Whatever distinction is noticed is merely
in matters of detail. The style was not confined within the
limits of Pagan alone and examples of the style have been
found at Amarapura and Sale.

Of all the groups of temples at Pagan the Ananda® is
certainly the most revered, as it is still actually in worship.
It is also the most remarkable for the outstanding beauty and
strength of the structure, for its fine and graceful proportions
and for the wealth of stone sculptures and terracotta plaques
decorating its walls. In general plan and arrangement the
three groups of temples vary little, and what is true generally
of the Ananda is true also of the other two. A detailed des-
cription of the Ananda should thus suffice for all the three
groups when the distinctive elements in the other two are
specially noted. Built towards the end of the IIth

6 The Ananda temple has been described in detail by Duroiselle:
Chas Durviselle, The Ananda Temple at Pagan, MASI, no. 56.

Google VERSITY OF MICH
TEMPLES AT PAGAN 9

century A.D. by Kyanzittha, the royal hero of so many
Burmese legends and romances, the shrine is magnificently
situated in the centre of a spacious court, surrounded by
brick enclosure walls having enormous gateways at the four
cardinal points. It exhibits a huge square temple with four
gabled porches, each projecting from the centre of each of the
four car@hal faces, which give it the shape externally of a
cruciform. Each of the porches is divided in the interior by
brick columns into a central nave and two side-aisles.
Instances are not rare where only one such portico or porch
hag been provided for. As for example, the Nanpaya and
the Nagayon (Fig. 1), attributed respectively to Manuha and
Kyanzittha, i.e., to dates prior to that of the Ananda, are each
preceded by a single portico on one side only. It is not
unreasonable, hence, to infer that temples of this kind ori-
ginally began with only one long portico projection over the
single entrance doorway, and four such adjuncts on the four
faces naturally come in the logic of symmetry and sense of
regularity in course of evolution. The ground plan of the
Ananda, or for the matter of that, of the majority of the
temples at Pagan, may be described as a square with project-
ing porticos facing the four cardinal points. In internal
arrangement the building is extremely massive and contains
in the centre a solid square pile with two parallel circumam-
bulatory corridors, communicating with each other and with
the vestibules and the windows by means of transverse open-
ings across the thick walls. The walls of the corridors as
well as those of the vestibules are lined with tiers of niches
containing stone sculptures pertaining to the legend of the
Buddha. The central pile enshrines in a niche on each side
a colossal standing image of Buddha and thus serves the
purpose of the principal sanctuary of the shrine. Such an
arrangement on each face of the central square pile reminds
one of the chaumukha or chaumuha stones of the Jainas.
This central pile shoots high up above the roofs of the corri-
dors, and acts as the support for a tapering curvilinear tower
(Sikhara) that usually crowns such a temple.

Being built of bricks elaborate use has been made of the

2

Google

to S. K. SARASWATI

knowledge of vaulting by means of radiating voussoirs. The
circumambulatory corridors and the side-aisles of the vesti-
bules are spanned by a kind of semi-pointed barrel vault
rising from the outer to the inner wall, The vault over the
inner corridor begins at a level slightly higher than that of
the outer one. As Fergusson points out, the adoption of
the semi-pointed barrel vault was a wise move, as € lessened
the thrust on the walls, and that is why most of these vaults
exist down to the present day. For the naves of the vesti-
bules and for the transverse openings, however, the builders
adopted the pointed arch barrel vault. Each recessed niche
is likewise covered by a pointed vault with gable ends with
a small opening cat in the outer gable for the admission of
light. The roof, as is usually the rule, is placed directly on
the vaults and follows its outline in the exterior. That is
why the roofs in such temples were not flat terraces but
assumed an ogee section following the rise of the vault.
The walls of the temple rise up perpendicularly to a
height of about 30 feet, the flatness being relieved by rows
of pilasters supporting the cornice above and by two tiers
of window openings, each in the shape of a cusped arch
springing from smaller pilasters and surmounted by flam-
boyant ornaments. The cornice mouldings are crowned with
a battlemented parapet. ‘The external shape and appearance
of the superstructure depend largely on the constructional
details, here-in-before mentioned. Over the battlemented
parapet rise in succession two roofs over the two circumam-
bulatory corridors, receding as they go up. As they follow
the outline of the semi-pointed vault underneath, each of
them has a curvilinear outline in the shape of an ogee. They
are adorned with a ringed pagoda at each outer corner and
are broken at the centre by large projecting dormer windows,
built in simulation of the projecting porches and with the
object of admitting light into the corridors and on the central
sanctuary pile, Above these two roofs rise gradually four
receding tiers that serve as the basement for the curvilinear
spire, crowned further by a ringed stiipa, of an elongated
and slender shape, with an iron hti as its finial. It should be

Google
TEMPLES AT PAGAN m

remembered that the curvilinear spire along with its basement
is sustained by the square sanctuary pile in the centre of the
shrine. In vertical section it corresponds essentially to the
early form of the curvilinear sikharas of Northern India and
like them bulges a little in the middle. Like them too the tower
retains itggquare cross-section all through, and the surface is
divided into several paga sections. Though the comer
‘@malakas and the crowning dmalakasila cannot be met with
in these Burmese temples, there cannot be any doubt about
the origin of this form. ‘The lines of the two super-posed
roofs and those of the four flat tiers serving as the basement
for the crowning sikhara have decidedly a pyramidal effect,
which is gracefully balanced by the aspiring lines of the sub-
sidiary ringed pagodas and miniature Sikharas rising high
above the roofs and gabled porches and ultimately culmina-
ting in the soaring outline of the main spire dominating the
entire superstructure.

Much can be written about the Ananda regarding its
sculptural and decorative details, but they do not come with-
in the scope of this paper. ‘The brief description, attempted
above, gives us an idea of the architectural form of the
temple and this form is essentially true not only of other
temples of this group but also of those of the other two, as
all the groups belong to one common stylistic tradition. The
Nanpaya, the only stone temple at Pagan, and the Nagayon,
already mentioned beforehand, belong to a date prior to that
of the Ananda. The former is attributed to Manuha, the
captive Talaing king of Thaton, and the latter to Kyanzittha,
whose name is immortalised as the builder of the Ananda.
By priority in time as well as by architectural form and
features they may be regarded as the legitimate precursors
of the famous Ananda. In internal arrangement and exter-
nal elevation the Nanpaya and the Nagayon on the one hand
and the Ananda on the other closely resemble one another,
with only this difference that each of the former two is pre-
ceded by a vestibule projecting from one side only, instead
of four such on the four sides, as we have in the Ananda.
The internal corridor communicating with the vestibule,

Google
12 S. K. SARASWATI

already presupposed in many of the older buildings at
Hmawaza and in the Nanpaya, is already an established
feature in the Nagayon, while the central square pile, ac-
commodating on each side a figure of Buddha, artificially light-
ed through a dormer window on each side of the superstruc-
ture, and carrying the crowning sikhara above, myy already
be found in the Nanpaya. It will be seen later on that this
feature too was not quite unknown in Burma during that period
and may be found anticipated in some of the earlier buildings
at Hmawza. The difference between the Nanpaya, the
Nagayon and the Ananda is that the last is much more rich
and elaborate in composition, so that instead of one projected
vestibule on one side there are four on the four sides making
the plan more symmetrical and regular in design; instead of
one circumambulatory corridor two are provided for in the
Ananda along with a network of transverse corridors cutting
and cross-cutting one another. This logical elaboration leads
to a perfection of the general design and composition
of the temple, without any infringement of the main princi-
ples of construction and of the essential architectural form.
From the Nanpaya to the Nagayon and from the latter to the
Ananda it is a process of steady evolution, not only to a
better and richer design but also to-a more symmetrical
form.

It should be remembered, however, that in spite of the
need for symmetry smaller temples are, as a rule, provided
with one projecting porch on the front side, a feature that
may be taken as a survival of the early form. Such is the
case with the Kubbyaukkyi at Myin Pagan (Fig. 2), built also
by Kyanzittha, though it is not known whether it preceded
the construction of the Ananda. The Seinnyet Ama temple,
also attributed to the IIth century, has one long portico
projection on the front side and a much shallower vestibule
projection on each of the other three sides. [The Shwe
gugyi (c. 1141 A.D.), built by king Alaungsithu, the builder
of the famous 'Thatbyinnyu, has likewise a single portico
projection with three other vaulted entrance doorways on
the. other three sides of the square temple. Coming much

Google
TEMPLES AT. PAGAN 3

later than the period in which temples of this group had
been in fashion it bears the stamp of its late date in the
more elongated and slender form of the crowning sikhara. The
Payathonju group consists of three square temples (Fig. 3),
standing side by side and joined with one another by vaulted
corridoy pierced at their sides. On the front side each of the
three temples has a small projecting porch. The group has
been attributed to a date in the 13th century A.D., but
curiously enough each of the three crowning sikharas pre-
sents an earlier form, not far removed from that of the
temples that are dated in the IIth. No such attenuation and
elongation of the tower can be noticed here as has been
felt in the Shwe gugyi, which antedates the group under
notice by approximately a century. It has to be pointed out
again that all the temples mentioned above, beginning from
the Kubbyaukkyi, present an architectural form and internal
arrangement not unlike those of the Ananda. Instead of the
ogee roofs of the Ananda or of the Nanpaya and the Nagayon,
however, these examples are all characterised by flat roofs
and from this standpoint some scholars are inclined to class
them as a separate group. It should be mentioned, however,
that this is merely a minor variation affecting in no way the
main composition and form of the temples concerned, and
there should be no real objection to class them with the
different examples of the Ananda group of temples.

The Patothamya, alleged to have been built by king
‘Taungthuggyi in the early part of the 10th century, and the’
Abeyadana, built by the famous Kyanzittha in 1059 A. D.,
represent a sub-variety of the group, just mentioned. As
an architectonic example, the latter appears to have been
anterior to the former, which has been traditionally ascribed
to an earlier date. In plan, in arrangement and in the main
elements of composition the two may be regarded as mere
reflections of the monuments of the first group that we have
discussed, except in the shape of the crowning superstructure.
‘The Abeyadana represents a square structure, raised on a
moulded plinth, with a projecting vestibule on one side having
entrance doorways on three sides of it. The vestibule is

Google
4 S. K. SARASWATI

partitioned into a central nave and two side-aisles and in
the interior of the main square we have the usual circumam-
bulatory corridor, surrounding the solid masonry pile in the
centre and lighted with the help of three perforated windows,
surmounted by flamboyants, on each of the three sides. In
plan thus the present structure closely resembles the Nan-
paya and the Nagayon, previously mentioned. Like them
too the roof rises in two ogee-shaped tiers directly over the
vaults over the corridors, surmounted further by three flat
horizontal tiers as the basement for the crowning element.
‘This last, however, presents a variation, not found in any of
the monuments, mentioned above. Instead of the curvili-
near Sikhara, usual in such structures, we have the bell-
shaped dome of a stdpa, complete with the cruciform
turret of the harmmika and the conical finial of the chatra-
vali, as the crowning member of the entire monument. In
shape and appearance it closely resembles the bell-shaped
stipa monuments of Burma. Each of the ogee-shaped
roofs is adorned with a miniature replica of the stdpa at
each corner, while the main entrance doorway in front of the
projecting vestibule is crowned likewise by a similar stipa
shrine. The roof of the vestibule as well as those of the
main shrine are lined each with a battlemented parapet at
each stage. The Patothamya (Fig. 4) resembles the Abeya-
dana in general arrangement and composition. But the super-
structure consists of flat roofs, instead of the ogee-shaped
ones, in the lower courses and a ten-sided dome with a corres-
ponding harmika and conical chatravali as the crowning
element. The plan also exhibits signs of elaboration and
apart from the long projection of the portico on the front
side there is a shallow offset projection in the centre of each
of the three other sides accommodating a rectangular doorway.
A miniature square turret appears at each corner of the
different stages of the superstructure, as well as at the centre
of each stage, corresponding to the projection of the vesti-
bule and those of the shallow offsets. The parapet at each
stage of the roof is lined with a frieze of stdpa replicas, in-
stead of battlements. Barring these variations, which might

Google VERSITY OF MICH
TEMPLES AT PAGAN 15

have been due to gradual elaboration in course of time, the
Abeyadana and the Patothamya resemble each other closely
and must be classed as belonging to the same type of monu-
ments. They differ from the Nanpaya-Nagayon-Ananda
group only in the shape of the crowning superstructure.
In plan, in composition and in the main lines of elevation both
the grofips represent the same conception and the Abeya-
dana and the Patothamya, each with its bell-shaped stipa
as the crowning element, should be regarded as a sub-variety
of the Nanpaya-Nagayon-Ananda group, which has a curvi-
linear Sikhara instead.

Fergusson’s description that the Ananda temple is several
storeys in height is not borne out by facts, at least in the
Ananda or in others of the same group. It is in the second
group, as illustrated in the Thatbyinnyu, the Sulaimani, the
Gawdawpalin, the Tilominlo, the Thitswada, etc. that we
notice the storeyed type. The general arrangements are
fundamentally the same. As in the first group, the yround
plan is square with one, two, three or four projections, as the
case may be. The central solid masonry pile shoots high up
and supports the crowning éikhara, exactly in the same
fashion that we notice in the Ananda group. The arrange-
ment of corridors is the same, and the receding pyramidal
roof over the vaulted corridors, the elaborate vaulted porches
and the high curvilinear sikhara are also common to this
second group of temples. The general appearance and im-
Pression hence present very little variation; but there is a
striking difference between the two groups in one important
point. The Ananda and the temples of the Ananda group all
represent one-storeyed structures, but the Thatbyinnyu, the
Sulaimani, the Gawdawpalin, etc. exhibit one, two, three or
more storeys, set one above the other and approached by
narrow flights of steps on one or more sides. [The storeyed
elevation is responsible for the greater height of the second
group of temples; in fact the Thatbyinnyu is the highest in
Pagan, being more than 200 feet in height.

As observed beforehand, the Thatbyinnyu, which is, by
the way, next in importance only to the Ananda, is repre-

Google
16 S. K. SARASWATI

sentative of this second group of temples. Situated close to
the Ananda, it was built by king Alaungsithu, grandson of
Kyanzittha, in 1144 A.D. The word ‘Thatbyinnyu’ signifies
“‘omniscience’’, which is one of the attributes of Buddha, to
whom it was apparently consecrated or dedicated by the
royal builder. The whole structure rests on a square base-
ment, with one large portico projection on the main€ntrance
side and three smaller projections for vestibules on the other
three sides. The entrance porch consists of a rectangular
vaulted chamber, divided into a central nave and two side-
aisles, and leads to the solitary corridor running round the
solid masonry pile. From two corners on the side of the
entrance porch ascend two flights of steps leading to the
second storey, which, though modest in height, follows essen-
tially the plan and arrangement of the ground storey, except
in the projections of the porch and vestibules. The third
storey ig approached by another flight of steps from the
second one and is raised to a height almost equal to that
of the ground storey. The accentuation of the height of
this third storey practically dissolves the whole edifice into
two vertical sections, and with a porch and three vestibules
added to it and the single Buddha image enshrined in a
recess on one side of the solid pile shooting across the ground
storey, this upper section with the crowning éikhara repre-
sents the temple proper with the lower one as its elaborate
basement. Above the third storey there appears another,
approached by flights of steps on all the four sides, which
is a repetition of the second storey, though only on a lesser
scale. The fifth storey, much reduced in size, enshrines
a miniature pagoda, and over it there rises the squat and
stunted éikhara with the ringed finial of the chatravali. Each
storey and each horizontal moulding of the roof is lined by
battlements and each comer at each stage is adomed by a
miniature tower accommodating a small square vaulted cella.
The corridors, doorways and windows are vaulted, the latter
two being adorned by flamboyant pediments of elaborate
design.

The Thatbyinnyu thus consists of five storeys and accord-

Google
TEMPLES AT. PAGAN 7

ing to Taw Sein Ko, a former Superintendent of Archaeo-
logy in Burma, “‘the first and second were used as the resi-
dence of monks; images were kept in the third; the fourth
was used as a library and on the fifth was constructed a
pagoda containing holy relics."? The cell-like formations in
the thickness of the walls (see plan—Fergusson, History of
Indian aM@! Eastern Architecture, 1910, Vol. Il, p. 362, no.
452), open to the internal corridors and with window openings
‘on the outside, might have been used for residential pur-
poses; but such accommodations are comparatively few for a
regular monastic establishment and were perhaps meant for
the dignitaries of the temple itself. It will be idle hence to
suggest that the edifice is “‘a combination of a stipa and
vihara”’.* It has also been urged that the architecture of the
Thatbyinnyu recalls that of the Pallava rathas of Mahabali-
puram. The conception and arrangement of the Pagan
temples are, however, fundamentally otherwise, and what-
ever affinity can be noticed between the two in outward
shape and storeyed elevation might have been purely
accidental.

The Thatbyinnyu supplies the model for other temples
of this group, in which the type becomes crystallised. The
Sulaimani (built by Narapatisithu, 1173-1210), the Gawdaw-
palin (begun by Narapatisithu and completed by his son
Nandaungmya, 1210-34), the Tilominlo (built by Nandaung-
maya)—Fig. 5, etc. all follow the Thatbyinnyu in general plan
and arrangement. A significant distinction may be noticed in
the elimination of the intermediate storey of lesser height
between the two principal elements of the structure. This
intermediate element had no useful purpose to serve and
was structurally redundant and its elimination not only leads
to a simplification but also to a perfection of the composi-
tion. All these temples represent each a square structure
with the projection of the main entrance Portico on one
side and three vestibule projections on the remaining three
sides. The ground storey consists of the central solid pile,

7 Taw Sein Ko, op. cit. p. 17. 8 ASIAR, 1903-4.
3

Google
18 S. K. SARASWATI

serving as the altar, with a narrow vaulted corridor all
around, while the second storey, resting directly on the
tiered flat roof of it, is similarly laid. This upper storey is
approached by one or two flights of steps, ascending from
the ground storey corridor, while in case of the Sulaimani,
we have an external approach from the roof of the portico
in the shape of a broad ramp across the horizon tiers of
the roof. The roof of each of the storeys rises in several
flat tiers, set back one above the other, each tier being
ornamented with battlements. Over the tiered roof of the
second storey and in continuation of the central solid masonry
block is placed the crowning gikhara, surmounted further
by the ringed stipa with its pointed chatrdvali. The
second storey follows strictly the plan of the ground one
together with its portico and vestibule projections. The open-
ings of the doorways and windows are surmounted by flam-
boyant pediments and the corners at each stage by miniature
turrets and shrines. The two storeys are usually of the same
height and in all these monuments, especially in the Gawdaw-
palin and the Thitswada at Pwazu—the latter a copy of the
former only on a smaller scale,—the height of the storeys is
always emphasised and pronounced. An accentuation of
the vertical lines may further be felt in the pointed pinnacles
of the flamboyant pediments and of miniature turrets and
shrines, which being drawn close to one another, melt in
the ascending height of the different storeys culminating in
the crowning éikhara with its pointed finial. These strong
and accentuated vertical lines of the temples of this group
present a sharp contrast to the dominating horizontal lines
of the Ananda and other temples of the Ananda group.
Slightly removed from the two groups, discussed above,
there also stand a few temples presenting distinct variations,
at least in application, and thus forming a class by themselves.
Such temples, however, are very scarce and the few that are
now before us compare unfavourably with the monuments
of the first two groups, both in appearance and effect. This
third group is illustrated best by the Dammayangyi, built by
Narathu in the last half of the 12th century A.D. (Fig. 6).

Google f
TEMPLES AT PAGAN 19

Huge in proportions and the biggest of ite kind in Burma, the
Dammayangyi has a grim story attached t describing how
Narathu, the parricide tyrant overtaken by remorse, built
this huge pile to make amends for his sins. There is also
the tradition that he executed the architect because a needle
could begpassed in between the two courses of masonry.
That the minutest of care was given to constructional detail
may be inferred from the fabric of the building representing
the finest brickwork in Pagan. The tradition proves that the
royal builder was particularly keen on this point.

The ground plan of the Dammayangyi is almost identical
with that of the Ananda, i.e., it is a square with four pro-
jections of the porticos on the four cardinal faces. It differs
from that of the Thatbyinnyu group in the fact that, as in the
Ananda, the projections are equally emphasised on all the
four sides, whereas in the Thatbyinnyu group of temples it
is only the main entrance that has been given the prominence
in proportion to the projections on the other three sides.
The interior arrangement, as usual, is that of the solid masonry
block in the centre, forming the altar, with a running
corridor all around. There are two parallel ranges of arched
windows for providing light into the otherwise dark corridor,
a feature that may also be found in the Ananda. But these
are merely resemblances due to a common stylistic tradition
and the main point of distinction of the Dammayangyi
with the Ananda may be found in external elevation. Like
the Thatbyinnyu group, the Dammayangyi represents a
storeyed structure, though a substantial difference exists in
the design and lay-out of the upper storeys. The ground
storey occupies nearly half the total height of the Dammayan-
gyi and the second storey rests directly on it without any
intervening tiered stages. It is much compressed in height,
but follows closely the ground storey in interior arrangement.
Over the second storey rise five flat terraced stages, set back
one behind the other but all of the same height and hence
monotonous in effect. Over the last stage rises the crowning
Sikhara, now in a dilapidated condition. At the corners
of each stage there appear miniature shrine towers. The

Google
20 S. K. SARASWATI

Dammayazaka, built by Narapatisithu, is only slightly later
in date. It essentially corresponds to the Dammayangyi and
may be classed along with it.

‘The Dammayangyi and the Dammayazaka partake of
several features and elements that may be noticed in either
of the two groups, mentioned above. Yet it can neither be
classed with the one nor with the other. In spite 6f a simi-
larity in the ground plan they differ a great deal from the
Ananda, and even with the storeyed arrangement they
present a substantial disagreement with the Thatbyinnyu and
other storeyed temples of Pagan. It will not be wrong
hence to class the Dammayangyi and the Dammayazaka as
a distinct group, which may be regarded as an experimental
stage, where the elevation of the different storeys wayers
between the dignified height of the Thatbyinnyu, the Sulai-
mani, the Gawdawpalin, the ‘Tilominlo, etc. and the graceful
pyramidal tiers of the Ananda. Instead of the soaring effect
of the monuments of the Thatbyinnyu group, we have, in
each of these examples, a heavy and stunted effect, the whole
edifice, because of the peculiar arrangement of the different
storeys, appearing to be weighing downwards. The Damma-
yangyi is slightly later than the Thatbyinnyu, while it ante-
dates the Sulaimani, the Gawdawpalin, etc. only by a few
years. The difference in effect between the two groups of
temples thus became too obvious to be missed, and it may
be that it was for this reason that the type was not much in
vogue. We may even infer that the Sulaimani, the Gaw-
dawpalin, etc. profited by the experience of the Dammayan-
gyi and it is only by carefully grading the heights of the
‘different storeys that the builders of these monuments could
attain that aspiring effect of height, which is their chief dis-
tinctive characteristic.

The above survey leads to the evident conclusion that
in spite of their variations all the three groups belong to one
common stylistic tradition. The main elements of compo-
sition that mark these temples as belonging to one fundamen-
tal style may be recognised, barring minor details, in (1) the
square ground plan with one or more projections for entrance

Google
TEMPLES AT; PAGAN ar

vestibules on one or more faces, (2) the internal arrangement
consisting of a solid square obelisk in the centre, serving
as the altar and surrounded by corridors or rows of corridors
‘on all sides, and (3) the crowning superstructure, either a
curvilinear ikhara or a bell-shaped stipa dome, supported
on the solid obelisk and surmounting the vaulted roofs of
the corridors in receding stages. Whatever variation is
noticed among the different groups is in the external appear-
rance of the monument, according as it is storeyed or not,
and if storeyed, how the upper storeys have been laid out
and designed. But in spite of these variations, the common
and distinctive elements, enumerated above, are found to
be present in all the groups of temples and bind them to-
gether as reverberations of one common architectural style.
Earlier prototypes of this style may be recognised at
Hmawza or old Prome in the Lemeythna and the Bebe,
which, even in their ruined states, may be said to have been
the precursors of the temples, built on so grand and magni-
ficent a scale at Pagan. The Lemeythna (Fig. 7) is a simple
square shrine, pierced by four arched doors on the four faces.
It accommodates in the centre a solid square obelisk with
four figures of Buddha in recessed niches on the four sides.
This solid masonry pile is surrounded on all sides by vaulted
corridors. The roof is composed externally of three sloping
tiers, placed one above the other, in receding stages, the
topmost one, which is flat, coinciding with the top of the solid
masonry pile in the centre of the shrine. Here in this simple
square structure, which is ascribed to a date in the %h century
A.D., can be recognised the plan and other fundamental
arrangements of the grand and magnificent temples of Pagan.
The internal arrangement of the solid pile with surrounding
corridors and the roof rising in receding tiers are distinctive
features of the Lemeythna, which cannot be missed. It is not
known whether a curvilinear spire (sikhard), which usually
crowns a Pagan temple, was placed over the roof of the
Lemeythna. But something in the likeness of such a spire
crowning the tiered roof may be noticed in the Bebe (Fig. 8),
also at Hmawza, which, however, presents a different plan.

Google
22 S. K. SARASWATI

It is not impossible that the Lemeythna also possessed such a
crowning element, or it is quite possible that there had been
buildings at this place where the plan of the one and the
fundamental elements of elevation of the other had been
combined. Remains of buildings, similar in plan to that
of the Lemeythna, have also been laid bare at Hmawza,”
and there can be no doubt that the famous temples of Pagan,
described above, had their beginnings in these simple old
structures at Hmawza. The Burmese chronicles say that
during the reign of Saw Rahan of Pagan (931-964 A.D.)
deputations were sent to Thaton and Prome to take the
plans of buildings with a view to reproducing them at the
Burmese capital. It is also said that five temples were
erected at or near Pagan on these plans.’ Among the
hundreds of temples at Pagan it is difficult to identify these
five particular monuments. But it is quite possible that the
type of temples, of which we find the rudiments now at
Hmawza, found sufficient time to be perfected and estab-
lished at Pagan before the great building activity began at
that city under the fostering zeal of King Anawrahta.

‘The accommodation of a huge solid masonry block in the
centre of a square shrine may appear to be peculiarly
strange. It should be remembered, however, that the
temples were all constructed of brick and the solid masonry
block in the centre proved to be a structural device neces-
sitated by the peculiar design of the building. ‘The fault,
spanning the corridor, required solid supports to resist the
thrust, and the weight of superincumbent masonry, as it
piled up, required a far more solid foundation. This has
been provided for by this central solid pile, which shoots
right up to the top and supports the crowning superstructure.
In the Lemeythna it is seen in its crude beginnings, but this
very same device has been adopted in the bigger temples of
Pagan on a much grander scale and with much greater skill.

9 ASIAR, 1927-28, p. 133

to Pe Maung Tin & G. H. Luce, The Glass Palace Chronicle,
PP. 59-60.

Google
TEMPLES AT PAGAN 23

We find just the beginnings of the portico projections in the
offsets of the doorways of the Lemeythna, which are already
surmounted by flamboyants, though not as overgrown with
decorative details as in the temples of Pagan. The long
portico, added to the square structure, is a late arrival, and
was probably first noticed on one cardinal face only, as we
have ifthe Nanpaya, the Nagayon, the Abeyadana, etc.
at Pagan. A fully evolved symmetrical style, however,
demands four projecting porticos of equal lengths on the
four sides, a condition that is satisfied in the Ananda and
several other temples of Pagan. The corridors are roofed by
semi-pointed arches, which take the shape either of sloping
or flat tiers externally. Thus the roof gradually goes up in
receding stages until the top of the solid pile in the centre
is reached. On this last tier is supported the curvilinear
Sikhara (or bell-shaped dome of the stipa) which is crowned
by the stdpa with its highly elongated finial of the Ati. Every
element in every stage is designed to converge to that one
single point soaring high up in the vacant space of the
horizon.

The question of the association and connection of the
style of temples, that we have just discussed, has led to much
speculation. At first sight they present remarkable dissimi-
larity with anything standing on the continent of India and
Fergusson, with reference to the storeyed temples at least,
wanted to trace the origin to Babylonia. ‘On the whole,
however,” says he, “‘I am inclined to believe, improbable as
it may at first sight appear, that their real synonyms are to
be found in Babylonia not in India.” Though he was aware
that it would be a more probable explanation to say that such
monuments might have existed in the great Gangetic cities,
but have perished due to the inclemency of weather and
hostile vandalism, he was almost dogmatically sure that
these storeyed temples of Burma were the lineal descen-
dants of Baylonian examples."" This hypothesis of Fergusson,

11 Fergusson, History of Indian and Eastern Architecture, Vol. Ul,
(second edition) p. 365.

Google
24 S. K. SARASWATI

it need not be stressed, is not only too far-fetched but also
too improbable to stand the test of reason. Duroiselle at
‘one time ascribes the origin of the Pagan monuments to
North-Eastern India, tempered by influences from other
Northern countries;* but later on he observes that these
temples “‘have been fashioned after South Indian models."*
The only affinity with South India may be fourfi in the
storeyed arrangement of the second group of temples, but.
this affinity is purely accidental, because not only is there a
fundamental difference in the general conception and plan of
a Pagan monument, but the design and lay-out of the storeys
themselves are radically dissimilar. Quaritch Wales’ des-
cription of the Ananda as ‘‘a South Indian temple crowned by
a north Indian éikhara’’* does not bear scrutiny, as here
even this storeyed arrangement, the only association with
South India that can be postulated, is absent. The typical
curvilinear spire as the crowning element of the whole super-
structure suggests Northern India as the country, wherefrom
the style could have been possibly derived. Duroiselle
himself has changed his opinion of late, and with recent
advances in our knowledge of Eastern Indian archaeology
he has tried to trace connections and associations that may
not be far off the mark.’*

A number of terracotta votive tablets, which are some of
the oldest objects that have so far been discovered in Pagan,
bear miniature replicas of shrines, each of which exhibits a
particular type of temple consisting of a roof of several re-
ceding tiers, ultimately crowned by a high curvilinear spire
of the Northern Indian type and with a stipa as its finial.
‘These tablets no doubt represent simple relief replicas of the
famous Pagan monuments, and as such, though eliminating
the details, they miss no essential element of the Pagan style

12 Rep. ‘AS, Burma, 1914, p. 16.

13, Ibid., 1918, p. 18.

14 Quaritch Wales, op. cit, p. 218.

15 Chas. Duroiselle, The Ananda Temple at Pagan, MASI,
no. 56.

Google
TEMPLES AT. PAGAN 25

of temples and closely resemble them in general elevation.
During the excavations conducted at old Prome there have
also been laid bare a stone sculpture in fragments and a
terracotta votive tablet, each with the representation of a
similar type of temple."* There can be no doubt that both at
old Prorge and at Pagan there existed temples, similar in
design to those shown in relief on these votive objects, a
fact that is amply testified by the fairly large number of
examples that still stand in both these places. The minia-
ture representations of temples on these tablets and the stone
sculpture closely tally with a similar type of temples, illus-
trated in several sculptures from Bengal and in a painted
sketch labelled as a temple of Buddha in Northern Bengal.'”
Here too we find a temple with a roof, consisting of a series
of receding tiers, supporting a curvilinear éikhara as the
crowning element. That such temples were also in existence
in Bengal and Eastern India in the early period may be in-
ferred from the rather fair number of such sculptured and
painted illustrations, and considering the active contact of
Burma with this part of the Indian mainland, the suggestion
that the type of temples, that we are used to see at Pagan,
was derived from Bengal or Eastern India may not appear
to be wholly improbable. It is the total disappearance of
the prototypes in the land of its origin, which is responsible
for the fanciful conjectures, that have hitherto prevailed
The systematic excavations at Paharpur (Rajehahi district,
Bengal)'* have yielded a fragmentary example of the type of
temples, that we find represented in miniature in ancient
Bengal sculptures and paintings. The ground plan consists
of a gigantic square cross, resulting from the addition of a
number of projecting planes on each face of a central square.
The temple rises in three terraces, with a circumambulatory
corridor, enclosed on the outer side by a parapet wall around

16 ASIAR, 1927-28, pp. 131-32, Pl. LV.
17S. K. Saraswati, ‘Temples of Bengal’, Journal of the Indian
Society of Oriental Art, Vol. Il, pp. 1356.
18 K.N. Dikshit, Excavations at Pabarpur, MASI, no. 55.
4

Google -
26 S. K. SARASWATI

the monument, in each of the upper two terraces. Unfortu-
nately the temple is in a much damaged state and the super-
structure, the method of roofing and other details regarding
the main shrine are difficult to ascertain. The arrangement
of the gradually rising terraces with circumambulatory corri-
dors would appropriately suggest a roof rising in, receding
tiers and a high and gradually tapering tower on the top of
it, in imitation of the representations of similar temples on
the sculptures and in paintings that have been known from
Bengal. These representations supply an undeniable clue
to the missing superstructure of the Paharpur temple, and such
kind of an elevation does quite fit in in the logic of arrange-
ment of this colossal edifice. The similarity between the
relief replicas of the type as found in Bengal and Burma is
striking and there is also a general resemblance in appear-
ance between the extant examples of the type—Paharpur
on the one hand and the Pagan temples on the other. The
tradition that the Ananda temple, an early example of the
Pagan style, was designed in the likeness of the Nandamula
grotto on the Gandhamadana mountain” may be pure
legend. But the resemblances of the Pagan temples with
the Paharpur monument cannot be lightly passed over.
Duroiselle writes thus with referene to the Ananda: ““The
cruciform shape in plan, the enormous central pile and cir-
cumambulatory corridors of the Ananda may also be traced,
as their ultimate origin, to the temples in Bengal, as exem-
plified by the Paharpur temple. *° He was even of opinion
that the architects who planned and built the Ananda were
Indians, and though built in the Burmese capital, it was prac-
tically speaking an Indian temple.”*

It should be pointed out, however, that the points of
resemblance between the Pagan temples and the Paharpur
monument are merely in exterior elevation. Neither in con-
ceptx.n nor in plan and interior arrangement can the two

19 Pe Maung Tin & G. H. Luce, op. cit, p. 110.
20 Chas. Duroiselle, op. cit, p. 20
ar Ibid, pg

Google
TEMPLES AT PAGAN 27

be equated with each other. ‘The respective ground plans,
though in effect somewhat similar, are wholly dissimilar in
original lay-out and arrangement. In the Pagan temples the
cruciform shape is the result of the addition of projecting
porticos on each face of the square structure, whereas at
Paharpur it is the result of the addition, at each lower terrace,
of a rectangular structure on each cardinal face. At Pahar-
pur we do not notice the use of the intersecting corridors, as
in the Ananda, whereas in the Pagan temples we do no-
where find the terraced form of construction that forms the
chief distinctive characteristic of the Paharpur monument.
The Paharpur temple rises in several terraces and the cir-
cumambulatory corridors, following the plan in every detail,
were placed at different levels. The central square of the
Paharpur temple is in the shape of a hollow obelisk, instead
of the solid ones in the Pagan monuments, though it can
hardly be doubted that like those of the Pagan temples its
purpose was to support the curvilinear éikhara that crowned
the tiered roof in the centre. But apart from these distinc-
tions, the two types of monuments—one at Pagan in Burma
and the other at Paharpur in Bengal—present strange resem-
blances, so far as the exterior elevation of each is concerned.
The cruciform shape, however different the origins, is there,
so also the roof in several receding tiers—in the one the
result of the method of spanning the different corridors, in the
other the result of the process of roofing the different terraces.
The curvilinear tower as the crowning element, that we notice
at Pagan, may also be said to have existed at Paharpur,
supported on the hollow obelisk of the central square, on
the analogy of the replicas of similar temple types on the
sculptures and paintings of Bengal. Some of these,
e.g. the stupendous character of the monuments, the tiered
elevation of the roofs, etc., are more or less inherent in brick
construction to make up for the limitations of the material.
‘The former was resorted to to lend greater stability to the
building. The latter is a pre-destined condition where gaps
have always to be spanned by vaulting, and that too in
separate stages where the space was too wide to be spanned

Google
28 S. K. SARASWATI

by a signle vault. It should be remembered also that Pahar-
pur belongs clearly to an earlier period; the close connection
between Eastern India and Burma and still further is an estab-
lished fact; and though we cannot lend support to the obser-
vations of Duroiselle in toto, considering the fundamental
difference in the conception and arrangement of the two
types of monuments, yet in view of the closer sirsilarity of
the two in exterior elevation, it would not be unfair to think
that the shape of the Indian monument afforded a possible
scope for imitation by the Burmese architects. It cannot
be doubted that some of the features, taken piecemeal, had
been derived from those of the Indian prototypes; but their
co-ordination into a single and well-balanced whole had been
due, in a very large measure, to the genius of the local
builders. The plan of the square structure with a solid
obelisk in the centre, forming the sanctum proper, and a
circumambulatory corridor is a conception, which is unknown
in India, and “although the style of the Pagan temples and
pagodas in its large and principle lines, can ultimately be
traced to North-Eastern India, it has characteristics all its
own, which entitle it to rank as a style apart.""??*

22. Rep. AS, Burma, 1914, p. 16.

In illustrating this paper the author has selected the less
known monuments in preference to such celebrated examples, as the
Knanda, the Thatbyinnyn, etc, which have been so often reproduced.
Care has been taken, however, to pick out the typical specimens only
in order to demonstrate fully the various topics under discussion.

Google
1 By

1a
IGIS., 1942 Plate II

Original from

mt UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

Ml Id

ovnixe Google
Iv

Plat

IGIS., 1942

« Google

Original from

UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

IGIS., 1942 d Plate V

Original from

Digitized by Google UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
Plate VI

IGIS., 1942

Original from

UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

Fig. 6

arses» Google

Plate VII
IGIS., 1942 Plate VIII

Driginal from

UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

NOTICES OF BOOKS

The Physicat Anthropology of the Existing Veddahs of
Ceylon, Part 1. By W. C. Osman Hill, M.D., F.R.A.L,
Professor of Anatomy, Medical College, Colombo. (Ceylon
Journal @f Science, Vol. Ill, Part 2, Section G. Anthropology :
July 10, 1941). Pp. 25-144, 23 Plates.

‘The Veddahs form a very interesting people from more
than one stand-point. ‘They are found practically in all
stages of economic development from the cave-dwelling
hunters to permanent cultivators. Physically also they are
distinct from the surrounding people and possess a large
number of interesting infantile characters. These facts
attracted numerous anthropological investigators during the
last 70 years or 80, who tried to study the people—both from
physical and cultural’ standpoints. Prof. Seligman’s study
of the cultural life of the Veddahs is still a model of one
type of ethnographic work. The works of Virchow (1881)
and the cousins Sarasins (1886 and 1892-93), published in
German, have so far been the basis of our knowledge of the
physical anthropology of the Veddahs, though the latter also
dealt with the cultural life of the tribe. Carnial studies have
since been made’ by Thomson, Turner, Liithy, Morant and
Woo and osteological by Thomson and Turner. The
author's justification for plodding the same path again lies
in the facts that the tribe is dwindling away rapidly and that
he is the only man who has measured and dissected two
complete Veddah cadavera. Moreover he claims to have
examined “‘at one time or another, probably every indivi-
dual existing Veddah worthy of the name.”

The book is divided into ten sections. In the first one the
author gives his reasons for taking up the study. This is
followed by an account of the previous works on the Ved-
dahs both physical and cultural. The history and present
status of the tribe is next briefly dealt with. The author
derives the name “Veddah" from the Sanskrit word
“Vyadha” (hunter) through the Sinhalese term Vadda.

Google
30 NOTICES OF BOOKS

They are, according to him, the autochthones of Ceylon.
The stone implements found in different parts of Ceylon are
attributed to them and some sections of them used these
implements even when Sarasins and Seligman worked among
them. In the fourth section Dr. Osman Hill gives us the
present distribution and classification of the tribe. He
rejects Sarasins’ classification into Jungle Veddahet Village
Veddahs and Coast Veddahs as “‘the first two divisions are
of little value today."” The author divides the tribe on purely
geographical basis into two parte—the northern one called
Tammankaduwa and the southern one known as Bintenne
Veddahs. The effects of climate, diet and occupations are
dealt with in the fifth section. The author states that ‘the
essential part of the Veddah's food is composed largely of
flesh derived from the hunt.” But is it true of all the sec-
tions of the Veddahs? Maize, millet, yams, honey and
numerous other wild produce of the jungle also enter into
their menu and form the more important part of it accord-
ing to earlier ethnographers. ‘The nature of Veddah settle-
ments, according to the author, has led to ‘‘intense inbreed-
ing with consequent tending to stabilization of physical
characters within the clan."’ This has not been proved
with facts and figures. It is unfortunate that the author has
not devoted more attention to these ecological considera-
tions for. which he is most competent. This would have
put the work in line with the contributions of modern phy-
sical anthropology.

The sixth section of the book gives a very detailed des-
cription of the external characters of the present day Ved-
dahs. We have already stated that the author claims to have
seen almost every individual Veddah worthy of the name
and collected. “‘somato-metrical data of the majority of the
males, besides other notes on both sexes."’ The number
of Veddahs in Chief Headman’s Divisions according to 1921
Census returns is 4510 (App. Il). This, probably, includes
mixed groups. The author has given in Table Ill
measurements of 27 male Veddahs and in Table IV their
indices. This is rather a small number in view of the claims

Google
NOTICES OF BOOKS 3

made. Moreover, even all these 27 are not true Veddahs
according to the admission of the author himself (see p. 74).
On the top of Table Ill he mentions that the measurements
were taken “with Martin's anthropometer and instrumen-
tarium", but he does not give us any clue as to the technique
of measurements employed which renders these - valuable
records practically useless for comparative purpose. He also
does not state the particular classification which he has
adopted for the present study, and this naturally causes
difficulty in following his description.

‘The average stature of 32 adult Veddahs is 1515mm. and
they fall “‘into the group of dwarf-races" according to the
author. ‘‘Relatively the head is small; the trunk long, the
arms long and the legs variable. Hands and feet are small
; . The chest is small and the belly short and round
with a tendency to protrude. ‘The skin is smooth and soft
as in a child and has a matt surface with a tinge darker than
that of the average Tamil, Sinhalese or Malay. The manner
of stating the skin-colour is unscientific. Hair on the body
and face are scanty. They are black, long, fine and wavy
or slightly spirally coiled. The eyebrows are of the
“narrowing” type. The average Veddah head is dolicho-
cephalic, hypsicephalic and acrocephalic. The forehead is
high, narrow but not always receding. The face is slightly
prognathous with a small height and great width. The
author describes the nose of the true Veddah as “markedly
chamaerthine—the average nasal index being 78.25"
Neither Haddon nor Martin includes this figure (78.25) with-
in the chamaerthine group which begins in both the cases
with 85.0. In Table IV on the other hand the average nasal
index is given as 77.82 and classified as mesorrhine. The
Veddah, according to Dr. Hill, approaches the Australian in
many bodily characters. The author's definite assertion that
the Kadirs are a South Indian Negrito tribe (p. 79) shows
that even a competent anatomist may fall into a trap while
dealing with physical anthropology of the old type.

‘The seventh section of the book is very valuable as the
author there gives a detailed account of all the Veddah

Google
3 NOTICES OF BOOKS

skulls available at different museums, universities and pri-
vate collections with the exception of Sarasins’ collection
deposited in the University of Basle. The characteristic
features of each skull have been carefully noted and des-
cribed with great patience. The skulls fall into two main
types. “The majority, which may be taken as pure or
reasonably pure Veddahs, form a remarkably uniforth assem-
blage distinguished by their small size, light build, and by
a fairly regular cranial form associated with short, wide
face, chamaerthine nasal aperture and broad, squat jaws
and palate.’ They resemble the South African Bushman
skull on the one side and the Australian aboriginal skull on
the other. The other type is formed by the half-bred Ved-
dah” and is large and heavily built. It is dolichocranial
with a greater relative height and deeper, narrower face and
jaws. In the skull the typical Veddah face is short and
broad with an average facial index at 85.6 and the nasal
bridge is saddle-shaped and has an average index of 56.6.
There are 23 half-tone illustrations, besides numerous sket-
ches, showing the different physical characters of the people.
The book has a long bibliography and two appendices
showing the number of Veddahs in different parts of the island.

The book is not yet complete; the remaining parts of
the skeletal system will be dealt with in Part II. Though it
is not proper to express any opinion on an incomplete work,
we may, from what we have already gone through, assure
the anthropologists that the beginning augurs well. It is
refreshing that the author has not attempted to theorise on
his data, but at the same time we cannot desist from remarking
that if he had paid more attention to Veddah ecology, the
people and the government of the island would have been
benefitted in a greater measure by his studies.

‘Tarak CHANDRA Das,

The Development of Hindu Iconography. By Jitendra
Nath Banerjea, M.A., Ph.D., Published by the University of
Calcutta, 1941., pp. xvi+459.

This is one of the most important contributions to the

Google :

NOTICES OF BOOKS 33

study of Hindu (specially Brahmanical) Iconography that
have appeared in recent times. Ag the author observes in
his Preface, the standard work of T. A. Gopinatha Rao
called Elements of Hindu Iconography suffers from two
grave defects, namely, failure to explain the development of
iconographic types more specially with the help of Ancient
Indian coffs and seal devices, and neglect of the earliest
monumental and epigraphic data. The author who has to
his credit years of experience as a post-graduate teacher on
the subject, has made it his aim to fill this void. In the
present volume he deals with general principles of Hindu
iconography and the early iconographic types represented
on Indian coins and seals. Two later volumes are expected
to deal with the numerous Hindu cult images and their
accessories.

The present work consists of eight chapters bearing the
titles Study of Hindu iconography, The antiquity of image
worship in India, The origin and development of image-
worship in India, Brahmanical divinities and their emblems
on early Indian coins, Deities and their emblems on early
Indian seals, Iconoplastic art in India, Iconographic termino-
logy, and Canons of Iconometry. Three Appendices (App.
B containing a revised text with annotated translation of an
old {conometric work called Pratimamanalakganam along
with the text and translation of some select verses from Ch.
57 of the Brhat Samhita of Varahamihira), two Indices and
a series of ten Plates (illustrating the early Indian coins and
seal devices, the reverse figures on coins, seal impressions
and the like) conclude this valuable monograph.

‘No analysis can convey an adequate idea of the admirably
comprehensive scope and scientific thoroughness of the pre-
sent work. On the varied topics coming within his purview
the author writes not only with full knowledge of the lite-
rary and archaeological data and the opinions of leading
authorities, but also with commendable sobriety of judgment
and keeness of insight. The result is a systematic and up-
to-date work which should be indispensable to all students
of the subject.

5

Google
4 NOTICES OF BOOKS

We propose to make a few observations. In his first
chapter giving a preliminary and general review of his
theme, the author might have pointed out the close inter-
relation of the Iconography of India and of Greater India,
to which works like Alice Getty’s Ganeéa bear witness.
The author's explanation of the significance of Hindu ico-
nography ie sound, and his classification of matefiale for its
study is pretty nearly exhaustive. But the occasion might
have been utilised in the first instance for emphasising the
grand sentiments underlying such outstanding creations of
the Hindu genius as the Sarnath Buddha of the Gupta Age,
the Ajanta Bodhisattva and the Chola Nataraja of the Madras
Museum. Reference might have been made in the latter
case to the terracotta seals as distinguished from seals
attached to the copper-plate grants.

On the significance of the human and superhuman figures
appearing on the Indus Valley seals of the pre-historic
period, the author expresses himself more cautiously than
other scholars like R. P. Chanda. For he says (p. 46) that
the character of these figures as cult objects cannot be deter-
mined with certainty so long as the script and the language
of the Indus Valley people remain a mystery. But the
pose of these figures who are represented as seated or
standing in various postures known to the later Yoga and as
being attended by worshippers leaves little room for doubt
about their sacred character. On much less cogent grounds
the snake-Goddess of the Minoan people has been identi-
fied as such.

The author's discussion (pp. 46 ff.) anent the highly im-
portant question of the prevalence of image-worship in the
early Vedic period is thorough and judicious. He is right
in holding (p. 53), as indeed is proved by the analogy of the
ancient Iranian people, that the Vedic religion and religious
practice could have no place for image-worship. In this
connection he very properly stresses the significant silence
of the early Brahmanas about images and idols. Referring
to two Rg Vedic texts (IV, 24. 10 and VIII, I. 5), the author
concedes (p. 65) that they refer most likely to some sensible

Google
NOTICES OF BOOKS 35

representations of the God Indra. But he still thinks that
they were not images or objects of worship. ‘“They were in
all probability meant for abhichara purposes,"” and as such
they cannot be placed ‘‘on the same footing with the images
of the sectarian gods of the subsequent period” (pp. 65-66).
The author finds (pp. 66-68) parallels for such Indra repre-
sentations n the “golden man’ included among the founda-
tion deposits of the fire-altar according to a Taittiriya Sarh-
hita text, as well as in the plaque in human form from the
Lauriya Nandangarh burial mound and the goldleaf female
figure from the Piprawa relic casket. But it is difficult to
understand how the sensible representations of the most
typical Indo-Aryan deity could be, as stated in the Rg
Veda verses above quoted, objects of purchase and sale
even for abhichara purposes. May not the references be
after all to special prayers of the god or special modes of
offering sacrifice in his honour that were supposed to be in
possession of certain privileged individuals or families? This
hypothesis would of course negative the existence of Indra
representations of any kind in Rg Vedic times. As for the
“golden man’ it is supposed by the author to have a partially
sacred character, since a Satapatha Brahmana passage iden-
tifies it with Prajapati, Agni and even the sacrificer himself.
In our opinion too much stress should not be laid on such
identifications which are quite in the Brahmana vein. It
was a custom among many communities for human
beings to be buried alive in the foundations of structures,
sacred or profane. May not the ‘golden man’ of
the Taittiriya Samhita and the Satapatha Brahmana passages
be a relic of such a custom prevailing among Indo-Aryans
in very ancient times?

In connection with the present question of existence of
image-worship in early Vedic times, the author discusses
(pp. 69-73) the significance of the expressions Sisnadeva and
miiradeva occurring in a few Rg Vedic texte. Unhappily
Sayana’s explanation of these difficult terms, which the
author quotes at some length, is of little use. For sisnadeva
Sayana gives two different explanations which point to the

Google
36 NOTICES OF BOOKS

non-existence of a continuous exegetical tradition in his
time. In fact Yaska’s explanation (siénadeva abrahma-
caryah) which Sayana himself quotes proves that the origi-
nal cult-significance, if any, of the term had already been
forgotten even in that early period. The author (p. 70),
while giving a qualified support on Sayana’s authority to
the latter significance, seeks to strengthen his cottclusion by
reference to the numerous phallic objects from Indus Valley
sites which have been interpreted as cult-objects of a people
culturally different from the Indo-Arys But is it not
strange that no other passage of Vedic literature, for all
that we know, seems to mention the term Sisnadeva or to
contain any explicit reference to phallic worship? As for
the parallel term maradeva, Sayana's equation with midha-
deva on which Wilson based his translation (‘those who be-
lieve in vain gods’) and A. C. Das still more improved
version (‘persons who believed in and worshipped images
which were lifeless and senseless objects’) is philologically
impossible. Philologically, the true equivalent of maradeva
is miiladeva (‘those whose gods are roots’). Cf. Geldner,
Der Reveda in Auswahl, Glossar, s. v. The author, it should
be observed, gives a qualified support to Das's view. Else-
where (p. 78) he throws off this reserve and definitely takes
Sisnadeva and maradava as examples of opprobrious

epithets applied by the Indo-Aryans to the children of the
soil.

In connection with his admirable account of the origin of
image-worship in India, the author (pp. 80 ff.) seems to con-
nect the rise of the later sectarianism with sundry Revedic
and Upanigad texts anticipating in his view one or other
of the constituent elements of the bhakti doctrine. But the
Bhaki clement in these passages, as the author himself
admite, is shadowy and exceptional. Equally significant
is the fact noted by the author (p. 84) that the originals of
the later sectarian gods were not Vedic deities but were
human heroes or mythological beings. May not the rise of
sectarianism with its concomitant of image-worship be due
not so much to modification of the old Vedic religion as the

Google
NOTICES OF BOOKS 37

reassertion of indigenous cults dating probably from very
early times?

‘The author's listing (pp. 94 ff.) of the post-Vedic literary
and archaelogical data for image-worship is very valuable
so far as it goes, but he might have thoroughly exploited the
rich material of the early Buddhist and Jaina literatures
to whith he just refers (p. 90). Attention might also have
been drawn to the significant fact that the two sets of data
often corroborate each other. To take a few examples, the
mention of Vasudeva worship in Panini (p. 95) has its parallel
in the supposed references to Vasudeva shrines in the Gho-
sundi, Besnagar and, Mathura inscriptions, (pp. 100-105);
the reference to Siva worship in Patafjali, Kautilya and the
Mahabharata (pp. 96-98) may be matched with the author's
identifications of Siva symbols and figures on coins going
back to the second and third centuries B.C., (pp. 127,131);
the worship of Yakgas (‘Maharajas’) referred to by Panini
(p. 95) has its counterpart in the Yakga and Yaksini figures
found at Patna, Besnagar, Didarganj and Pawaya (pp. 107-
108).

Great value attaches to the author's identifications (pp.
122 ff.) of Brahmanical divinities and their emblems on
early indigenous and foreign coins. In many cases the
author supplements or rectifies the views of such well-known
numismatists as Cunningham, Gardner, Whitehead and
Allan. We are however tempted to ask whether what the
author identifies (pp. 125-7, 130-1) as emblems or figures of
Siva on a number of pre-Christian coins may not after all
refer to some archetype or prototype of this god.

Equal credit belongs to the author for his luminous sur-
vey (pp. 173ff.) of deities and their emblems on early Indian
seals. Here the author very properly begins (pp. 174 ff.)
with the prehistoric seals and sealings of Indus Valley sites.
He includes within his scope not only the well-known seals
of Basarh and Bhita, but also the as yet unpublished seals
of Rajghat. In the course of his survey he frequently re-
vises and rectifies the views of such authorities as Marshall,
Spooner and Bloch. The author's omission of a detailed

Google
38 NOTICES OF BOOKS

analysis of the Nalanda seals is no doubt explained by the
delay in publication of the long expected monograph of
Pandit Hirananda Sastri on the subject.

The chapter on Iconoplastic art in India (pp. 219 ff.) re-
produces from the standard works a very valuable series of
texts relating to the manufacture of wooden, metal and
stone images as well as stuccos, frescoes and patas.” It is
interesting to be told (p. 232) that a process similar to the
cire perdue method of Western artists was known to ancient
India under the name of ‘bees’ wax’ (madhiicchigta).

The following chapter (pp. 267 ff.) describes with a great
wealth of illustrative detail and adequate references a large
number of technical terms relating to Hindu iconography.
Among the topics dealt with are hand-poses (hastas and
mudras) of different kinds, different varieties of postures,
seals and pedestals, ornaments including the head-gear and
coiffure, drapery and nimbus, and, last but not the least, the
weapons and implements of the deities. In the last cha
ter (pp. 336 ff.) dealing with iconometry, the author explains
various kinds of measurements used in image-making and
specially the two units called angula and tala. In this con-
nection we are treated (pp. 362-366) to an interesting com-
parison of Indian canons of proportion with those in vogue
among Egyptians and Greeks as well as with those followed
by modern Western artists.

We have noticed a few misprints (not included in the
list of Additions and Corrections at the end) which may be
corrected in a later edition. Such are Morganlandischen
(pp. xvi and 437), A. C. Coomaraswamy (p. 125n), Antialki-
kas (p. 162), cow (p. 329), M. Lalou (242n), Yarde (p. 278n.).
We have also come across a few lapses of transliteration of
which a glaring example is the quotation from Patafijali's
Mahabhasya beginning with apanya iti (p. 95).

Altogether the present work is a model of painstaking,
thorough and fruitful research which does credit.to its learned
author.

U.N. GHosHaL

Google
NOTICES OF BOOKS 39

India and the Pacific World. By Dr. Kalidas Nag, with
foreword by Ramananda Chatterjee. Book Company Ltd.,
Calcutta, 1941, pp. viii+295.

The author’s aim, as he tells us in his informative
Introduction, is to correlate “the monumental and artistic
materials” of Pacific culture with “their anthropological and
pre-hisforic contexts,” “‘to trace the history of the Far
Eastern civilization from the age of the Peking Man and
the Java Man to the age of the modern antiqua: ” He
modestly disclaims the intention of delineating the history
of Man in Asia as ‘‘a harmonious series of frescoes,”’ and
he offers his present volume as an “‘attempt to work the
diverse materials and their interpretations into some sort
of a mosaic.” That a work of this compass was urgently
needed to broaden the painfully narrow outlook of our
people cannot be gainsaid for a moment. As Mr. Rama-
nanda Chatterji writes in course of his appreciative fore-
word, “The real position of India in ancient pre-historic
and proto-historic times with the world, particularly with
Asia and America as the background, has still to be
perceived even by scholar: ‘he cultures which grew up
in Oceania and Polynesia and generally in countries washed
by the Pacific Ocean and which most probably influenced
the aboriginal American cultures, are not yet adequately
recognised. Still less recognised is India’s part in the
bringing about of inter-continental contacts and the fusion
to a greater or less extent, of cultures separated by oceans
as regards their places of origin.” Such being the
importance of the theme, it must be admitted that the author
has enjoyed almost unique opportunities for doing justice
to his task. Deriving his inspiration from the master-mind
of Rabindranath Tagore to whom the work is aptly
dedicated, the author was enabled by a happy concourse
of circumstances to make frequent visite between 1924 and
1938 to the lands and peoples of the Pacific practically as
one of India’s cultural ambassadors.

The present work consists, besides a well-written Intro-
duction and Conclusion, of twelve chapters having the

Google
40 NOTICES OF BOOKS

following titles: —The Pacific basin—a cultural survey,
Cultural migrations in Oceania, Maori land and culture, The
Polynesian world, The peoples and cultures of the Philip-
pines, India and the Archaeology of Malaysia and Indone-
sia, Artand Archaeology of Thiland, Art and Archaeology
of Indo-China, Art and Archaeology of Sumatra, favai in
Asiatic history and culture, China in Asiatic histéry and
culture, Japan in Asiatic history and culture. There are
besides three Appendices, a map and a good Index.

A glance at the above list of contents is enough to con-
vince even the casual reader of the enormous range of the
author's studies which extend over the whole region of the
Pacific world from pre-historic down to quite modern times.
Not only the pre-history and proto-history, but also the
art and archaeology during the historical period of the
count dealt with in turn are described with a truly
amazing amount of documentation. The author lays under
contribution an enormous mass of publications extending
to the most authoritative and up-to-date works many of
which are almost inaccessible in this country. Frequently
he gives adequate bibliographies and lists of museums and
other centres of study and research in the Pacific lands
which he describes so well. His personal reminiscences not
only give him an opportunity for remembering with gr
tude the scholars, art-critics and public men of many lands
and nationalities who helped to make his tours fruitful, but
also lend to his descriptions a touch of vividness which no
amount of mere book-learning would have conveyed.

The author’s views of the relation between Indian and
Pacific cultures, which indeed form the theme of his work,
can best be expressed in his own eloquent words which
we quote from his concluding chapter (pp. 283-4). ‘‘The
expansion of Indian culture into the Pacific world is a
grand chapter of human history......What parts of this
cultural complex could reach the Eastern Pacific basin and
New World are problems for future anthropologists and
antiquarians......This colossal cultural drama ie reappearing
to us like an ancient mutilated play with many acts and

Google
NOTICES OF BOOKS 4t

interludes still missing which future research alone would
probably restore and reconstruct. But whatever portions
have already been recovered inspire us with awe and
admiratio1 ‘There was no sordid chapter of economic
exploitation or political domination in the development of
GreatereIndia which, coming a legacy from Emperor
Asoka of 3rd century B.C. continued for over 1000 years to
foster the fundamental principles of maitri (fellowship) and
kalydna (universal well being) which form the bed-rocks of
Hindu-Buddhist idealism.’” We have no doubt that every
reader of this arresting volume will share the author's
firm conviction so well stated in his concluding sentence,
that “Civilized Humanity will ultimately triumph over all
the savage instincts of destruction,”” for, ashe finely says
in words that might come from the lips of Rabindranath
Tagore, “Drowning the temporary typhoons of wars and
violent conquests, the voice of the Universal Man is ever
ringing in our ears, and the corridors of History are
reverberating [with] the music of human sympathy”.

U. N. Ghoshal

s Documents from
Chinese Turkestan by T. Burrow, M.A.. The Royal
Asiatic Society of Great Britain and Ireland, 1940. Pp. 147,

with an Index of some special words annotated or commen-
ted.

Mr. Burrow has worthily followed up his exceedingly
valuable Language of the Kharos{hi Documents from
Chinese Turkestan (Cambridge 1937), which gives a historical
study of the Prakrit speech current some 1700 years ago
in what is now Sin-Kiang (or Chinese Turkestan) to the
east of Khotan, by the present volume giving a translation
of all the 760 documents—letters, reports, official orders,
judgments etc.—which were discovered at Niya, Endere
and Lou-Lan (Lopnor) sites by Sir Aurel Stein and others

and are now preserved in London and Delhi. According
6

Google
42 NOTICES OF BOOKS

to traditions preserved in Buddhistic literature Indian
settlers from the North-west took their Prakrit language into
Khotan (Kustana) in the 3rd century B.C;, and with the
political and cultural forces of India behind them they
were enabled to attain to a position of importance among
the original inhabitants of the land who were pegrtly Ira-
nians (in the west, including Khotan) and partly ‘Tokha-
rian,’ allied in speech to the people of the Tarim Valley
in the northern part of Sin-Kiang (in the east, comprising
the old towns of Cad’ota, Saca and Kroraine). These
Indian settlers took Buddhism (and possibly also Brahman-
ism) with them, and although they inevitably merged into
and were assimilated by the local peoples, they appear to
have preserved their language for over half a millennium,
and this language, strongly modified by the local speeches,
was the language of administration and culture in that
area in the early centuries of the Christ era. Sin-Kiang
was the earliest land of Greater India in Central Asia,
and there documents written in the Kharogthi script on
materials like wooden tablets and bits of leather present
some of the oldest contemporary documents of an Indo-
Aryan speech. As such their importance in the study of
Indo-Aryan linguistics, particularly of the Indo-Aryan
(Prakrit) and New Indo-Aryan (Bhaga or Vernacular) stages,
can be well understood. Some years ago the late Pro-
fessor E. J. Rapson of Cambridge published the entire
corpus of these documents from Sin-Kiang in a Roman
transcript. The nature of the language at once became
apparent with its first decipherment, and the late Prof.
Rapson, Professor F. W. Thomas, Dr. Sten Konow and
Prof. T. Burrow all worked to unravel it, and with
Burrow’s grammatical study mentioned above and the pre-
sent translation this ancient Indian dialect as used in
Central Asia has at last been made accessible to all
students.

It is remarkable how an Indian speech obtained the
ion it had among peoples of different origin in Central
Asia some 2000 years ago. Doubtless the prestige of India

Google
NOTICES OF BOOKS 8

in politics as under the Mauryas, in religion, and in com-
merce, was there; possibly also the Indian language served
as a Lingua Franca among the Iranians and Tokharians
as well as some Turks and a few Chinese who lived there,
and furnished a bond of union among the local peoples.
The linguistic importance of this Prakrit dialect, current
among *Indians of the extreme north-west, and possessing
some Dardic affinities, is indeed very great. A good many
linguistic innovations which we associate with new Indo-
Aryan are already there in this Middle Indo-Aryan speech.
It has a respectable Iranian vocabulary, and some words
of the other local speech which was allied to Tokharian;
and its phonetics—and probably also its grammar—were
profoundly modified by Tokharian. Numerous words have
not been explained; the present work continues the earlier
attempt at explaining these unknown vocabl Still in
the absence of a bilingual text to guide us, it is remark-
able how modern scientific linguistics has succeeded in
winning this language back from oblivion.

The documents themselves in Prof. Burrow’s translation
form a unique mass of material for studying the economic,
social and cultural environment of life in Chinese Turkes-
tan some 2000 years ago. There is an astonishing revela-
tion of the life of the people, as all these documents are
secular and ephemeral in nature, and are not religious
and hieratic. The people of the kingdom of Shan-shan
or Kroraina with their disputes in connexion with their
slaves and their camels, their lands and other possessions
and their women, their pastures and vineyards, and ruge
and felts, present themselves before us as a community
singularly like the Turki-speaking settled population of
the present day (Sin-Kiang) with a background of Buddh-
ist monks (who marry and have families) and of monasteries
in place of the present day Mohammedan mullas and
mosques. The letters and official orders as well as com-
plaints and petitions and deeds are all very human in their
nature; the society was primitive, although the admini
trative and judicial systems were imported from more cit

Google
44 NOTICES OF BOOKS

lised and sophisticated lands like India, Persia and China.
This human quality of the documents which has not been
suppressed in Professor Burrows translation, in- spite of
its being strictly philological and literal, will have its
appeal for a wider public than specialists in Indology and
in Central Asian studies: and students of human civilisa- »
tion will not be able to ignore a set of documents like
these. One of the main interests for these documents,
so far as we Indians are concerned, of course lies in
connexion with the picture of a Greater India in Central
Asia it presents itself before us; but we cannot shut our eyes
to the wider vistas of life and culture opened through
these Prakrit documents from Niya and Endere and Lop-
nor.

Suniti Kumar Chatterjee

A short Guide to Padmanabhapuram. By R. Vasudeva
Poduval, B.A. Director of Archaeology, Trivandrum, 1941,
pp. 4+6 Plates.

Travancore Inscriptions—A topographical list. By the
same. Trivandrum 1941, 341 pp.

‘These two publications from the pen of the Director of
Archaeology, Travancore State, testify as much to the author's
zeal and enthusiasm in the cause of archaeological research
asto the enlightened patronage of His Highness’s Govern-
ment.

In the first work the author gives short descriptions (with a
ground plan attached) of a group of buildings in the old
palace at Padmanabhapuram the ancient capital of Travan-
‘core, which is famed in an eighteenth-century Sanskrit work
as the Ujjain of the South. These structures of which the
earliest dates from c. 1335 A.D. are built in the traditional
Malabar style of architecture “with pointed gables, dormer
windows and long corridors.” They include a dancing hall
with granite columns, a three-storied palace with some
sixteenth-century mural paintings of Hindu divinities and a
quadrangular building for annual worship of the Goddess

Google
NOTICES OF BOOKS 5

Durga. ‘There is besides an archaeological museum contain-
ing stone inscriptions, sculptures, copperplates and coins
“dating from the 8th to the 18h century A.D." and a
number of historical portraits. While we are grateful to the
author for his interesting descriptions, we could have wished
for some further illustrations of architectural detail, and a
more copious account of the treasures of the museum (in-
cluding the reproduction of the unique historical portrait
depicting the defeat of the Dutch off Padmanabhapuram
in 1741 A.D).

The second work is a very useful compilation of ins-
criptions from the Travancore State arranged serially
according to localities and listed under the heads :—place
of inscription, dynasty, king, date, language and alphabet,
remarks. How varied even in form these inscriptions
are will best appear from the number of languages repre-
sented (Tamil, Malayalam, Sanskrit and even Pahlavi,
Arabic, English, Dutch, and Latin) as well as of alpha-
bets used in them (Vatteluttu, Tamil, Grantha, Mala-
yalam, Nagari, Arabic and so forth). In case a new
edition of this work is called for, we would suggest the
addition of complete references for the inscriptions and of
an Index.

U. N. Ghoshal”

A Report on the Working of the State Museum, Puduk-
kottai for Fasli 1350 (July 1, 1940—June 30, 1941), Puduk-
kottai, 1941, pp. 35+3 Plates.

This is a record of the praiseworthy activities of the
Museum done during the year.

Among the interesting acquisitions in the Archeology
and Art sections are an eight-armed bronze image of
Nrsimha (a type not noticed in T. A. Gopinatha Rao’s
classical work on Hindu Iconography) and the earliest
known inscriptions (dating from the 9th and the 10th
centuries) mentioning the famous Tamil merchant-guild
whose records are found not only in some other centres

Google
46 NOTICES OF BOOKS

of Southern India, but also in Ceylon, Siam, Sumatra and
Burma. It is good to learn that the useful collection of
South Indian musical instruments has been arranged during
the year under convenient heads. As regards archaeo-
logical exploration proper, the department has to its cre-
dit the excavation of a unique Sivite temple belonging
to the late Pallava and early Chola styles, and of a Jaina
temple of late Pallava style. Students of Indian archeeo-
logy will be gratified to learn that steps have been taken
by the authorities for the protection of the far famed
frescoes of the cave at Sittannav: A number of useful
appendices (including one on a list of conserved monuments
and another on the inscriptions noticed during the year)
brings this useful publication to a close.

U.N. Ghoshal

Google
Editorial Notes

Under the joint auspices of the Mahabodhi Society
and the Greater India Society, Father Heras of the Bombay
St. Xavier's College delivered an interesting and well-
attended lecture on the Expansion of Mohenjo-daro Culture
at the Mahabodhi Society's Hall, Calcutta on the 8th
November 1941. With a large array of data derived from
Comparative Philology, Mythology and Religion the learned
lecturer proceeded step by step to trace what he belived
to be the connexions of the Indian Culture with the
culture of the Ancient Sumerians, Hittites, Phoenicians,
Minoans, and even of Pelasgians, Etruscans, Basques of
Spain and Celts of the Stonehenge. At the end of his
lecture Dr. U. N. Ghoshal, who presided on this occasion,
paid a warm compliment to the lecturer for his very
suggestive address, while mentioning the philological and
other difficulties in the way of acceptance of some of his
conclusions.

. . . . .

The Managing Committee of the Greater India Society
has to thank the authorities of the National Council of
Education, Bengal for renewing their generous annual
grant of Rs. 400/- only for 1941. The Committee takes
this opportunity to convey its heartfelt thanks to its res-
pected President, Sir P. C. Roy, for a donation of Rs.
100/- which is also very welcome.

. . . . .

A series of popular lectures on the Culture of Bengal
and Greater Bengal were arranged by the Greater
Society last year in accordance with the terms
collaboration with the National Council of Education,
Bengal. The dates of these lectures with their titles
and the names of the lecturers are given below:—IIth
August at 5-30 p. m.—Origin of the Bengali Language,

Google
48 EDITORIAL NOTES

By Dr. Suniti Kumar Chatterji; 12th August at 5-30 p. m.
—Origin of the Bengali Language. By the same; 26th
August at 5-30 p.m.—Religion in Early Bengali Literature.
By Dr. Sukumar Sen; I6th September at 5-30 p.m.—Reli-
gion in Early Bengali Literature. By-the same; 3rd De-
cember at 6-30 p.m.—The Culture of Greater Beggal. By
Dr. Kalidas Nag. The other lectures arranged for delivery
during December 1941 and January 1942 had to be regret-
fully postponed owing to the worsening of the international
situation.
. . . . .

The following letter has been received by the Secretary,
Greater India Society :—

“Royal Asiatic Society,
74, Grosvenor Street, London, W.I.
12th December 1941.

“Sir
“My Council would greatly appreciate an exchange of
its Journals and other publications for yours,

‘*(2) With regard to back numbers, as soon as the sea
communication is safer and more rapid, it would be pre-
pared to send its Journals etc. for the period since the
inception of your Society in return for your back Journals
ete.

“should add that your Journal is highly appreciated
here, and it would appear that only accident has prevented
a previous rapprochement between our Societies,

Yours faithfully
(Sd). F. Davis
Secretary”

The Managing Committee of the Greater India Society
has gladly accepted this offer.

Google
In Memoriam
Edward Denison Ross (1871-1940)

Sir Edward Denison Ross, remembered in India
as the® energetic principal of the Calcutta Madrassa,
Bengal’s premier centre of Perso-Arabic and Islamic studies
and one of the oldest educational institutions set up by the
British in India, and later on still more famous as the Director
of the School of Oriental Studies in London, was a British
Orientalist of distinction who in his spirit of adventure and
love of the romantic East had something of the great Elizabe-
thans about him. He was attracted by the peoples of the
Near East—Turke, Arabs, and Persians, and he studied the
languages and literatures of these peoples with some of the
greatest masters in Europe—E.J.W. Gibb, Charles Schefer,
Baron Rosen and Theodor Néldeke. Not content to be
an arm-chair scholar, he visited the lands of the East when
@ young man, Central Asia included; and he worked in India
from 1901 to 1914. Here he extended his linguistic attain-
ments, and made a name for his scholarship. From 1916
to 1937 he was Director of the newly founded School of
Oriental Studies in London, and his Indian experiences
combined with his wide scholarship and wider interests
helped him to build up the school into one of the most im-
Portant centres of linguistic and orientalistic research in
Europe. With his adventuresome temperament he found it
difficult to spend his time in retirement, and in 1939 he
went to Istambu] as a member of the staff of the British
Embassy here. Eminent Turcologue that he was, he
found a fitting resting place in that city, death claiming him
there at the age of seventy-one.

Ross's scholarship was not pedantic and dry-as-dust
book-learning. The many Indian students (including the
writer of this slight tribute to his memory) who had the pri-
vilege of sitting at his feet in the school of Oriental Studies
in London were perhaps more impressed by Ross the man—

7

Google
50 IN MEMORIAM

rarely they had opportunities of being impressed by Ross
the scholar unless they studied with him some Persian,
Arabic, Turkish or Tibetan text or Central Asian Islamic
history. His heartiness and his ready sympathy and help-
fulness won the affections of all who came in touch with
him. The present writer attended Ross's classes in Persian
at the school during 1920-1921, and followed somé of his
lectures on diverse subjects, and he retains a vivid and a
grateful memory of the way in which Ross used to make
with notes and anecdotes culled from the vast fields of
Persian, Arabic and Turkish the reading of a work like the
Chahar Magala so living and so interesting to the small class
that used to meet. Ross had not forgotten his Bengali after
five years when I saw him in 1919; and the occasions that
I had of meeting him and talking to him revealed quite un-
expectedly a scholar steeped in the lore of Asia, who was at
the same time genuinely anxious for the welfare of the
young aspirant to scholarship who had come from Calcutta,
for which place he seemed to have a warm corner in his
heart. It made one feel quite at ease to be addressed by
the Director as ‘my boy.’ In building up the tradition of
modern scholarship in India, Ross certainly had a share
through the School of Oriental Studies: and this fact was
gratefully remembered in India when a Ross Commemoration
Volume was organised from Poona by Indian scholars some-
time before his death. An old colleague of Ross's, and
one of his successors to the principalship of the Calcutta
Madrasa, the late Dr. M. Hedayat Hosain also used to
acknowledge his indebtedness to Ross as the great
inspirer in his studies. I had the privilege of meeting Sir
Edward again in 1935 at the School of Oriental Studies, and
‘once again in 1938 at the International Congress of
Orientalists in Brussels, and he was the same hearty scholar,
with the kindly twinkle in his eyes and his cheerful smile.

As a great orientalist with whom the study of the
medieval East particularly was a passion, as an educator who
both in and outside India helped to bring about a renaissance
in Indian scholarship, and as one whose work was signi-

Google
IN MEMORIAM * 5

ficant in reviving Tibetan studies in India through the
Asiatic Society of Bengal and in strengthening the study
of Persian and Arabic in our country, he has deserved from
the Greater India Society a respectful homage to his
memory.

Sunitl KuMAR CHATTERJEE

Google .
Select Contents of Oriental Journals

Koninklijk B: asch Genootschap van Kunsten en
Wetenschappen, Jaarbook, VIII, 1941.

[In the present year-book we have a report on the acti-
vities of the Royal Batavian Society of Arts and Sciences
for the year 1940 under the following heads: Pre-historic
collections, Archaeological collections, Historical collections,
Ceramic collections, Ethnographic collections, Library, MS.
collections and publications. Under the first heading parti-
cular attention is drawn to what is called pacul (a spade-like
object without handle), the first of its kind found so far.
A kettle-drum of the type of Heger IV also deserves atten-
tion, although the place of its discovery is unknown. A
bronze hatchet (no. 4367) ornamented with two eyes
is supposed to represent a link between Dong-Son and.
western culture. As appears from the list, the pre-historic
collection is extremely rich.

The archaeological collection has been enriched during
1940 with the addition of 333 objects’ of which 41 are gold
objects, the rest are made of silver, bronze, stone or terra-
cotta. Several objects were also made over to the Society
as gifts. Of these special attention deserves to be paid to
3 stone yipas with inscriptions of 4th—5th centuries A.D., the
gift of the Sultan of Kutei to the Government of the Dutch
Indies. The script is described as Pallava and the record
is that of king Milavarman. It probably forms a set with
that edited by Kern in 1882. Dr. J. L. Moens presented a
copper-plate inscription of the time of Balitung. ‘The find-
spot is doubtfully supposed to be Banjarnegara. Another
Plate of the same king is no. E. 75. The head of the
Buddhistic image from Central Java and a gold-plate
inscription in Old-Jav. script were presented by Baron
von Oetzen. A fine stone-image, no. 7377, is doubt-
fully described as that of Agni. From the collection of
Lie Hwat Gie, Surakarta, the Society obtained the stone-
image of a sitting goddess, which is supposed to be that of

Google
SELECT CONTENTS OF ORIENTAL JOURNALS 53

Vajrankusi. Its fmd-spot is unknown. In no. 7165, the
sitting image of Ganega on one side of the stone and a
dancing male figure on the other engages our attention. A
bronze image of Avalokitesvara with Amitabha on the head-
dress was purchased from the collection of Liem Tjoe
‘Tjwam at Magelang (no. 7100). An unusually beautiful
glase-vase with representations from the Ramayana is also
reported. No. 7102 is variously supposed as Kuveri or
Dhanada-Tara. E. 76a-c consist of 4 copper-plates (of
which one is lacking) in East-Jav. script and referring to
Rayung. It is from Ngajung, Lamongan. No. 7204 is
supposed to be a deified mortuary image. A standing image
of Durga has been found from Camplong, Pamekasan, Madura
(no. 7207). No. 7216 a-g consist of 7 fragments of a gold
plate with Old-Jav. inscription. Ai four armed Siva from
Getasan, Semarang, also deserves our attention. Among
others, nos. 7377 (image of Agni), 7378 (four-armed standing
Visnu), 7380 (image of Vajrankusi2), 7382 (sitting four-
armed Ganeéa) and 7385 (standing Mahakala) deserve special
mention.

The historical collection is mainly from modern times
and there is nothing of particular interest to engage our
attention. Other sections also contain nothing of special
importance. The year-book is precise in its descriptions and
contains some excellent plates].

TiJdsohrift voor Indische taal-, land- en Volken-Kunde,
1941, 81, afl. 4,

Een interessante Kéndi van Trowoelan by Dr. W. F.
Stutterheim—[The writer describes a k8ndi, a kind of pot,
discovered from Trawulan, near which the remains of the
kraton of Majapahit were sought. Thekndi contains the
sketch of something like a kavandha with inscription which
is supposed by Dr. Poerbatjaraka to be old-Sundanese.
‘The figure approaching to the likeness of a kavandha (Bal.
lawejan or Jav. g8mbung-g3mbung, San hjang Tulah Palisaja)
is traced to Indian parallels in the Ramayana. The pot
is supposed to date from the 14th century and is connected

Google
54 SELECT CONTENTS OF ORIENTAL JOURNALS

with the journey of the Sundanese king to Majapahit, which
explains the Sundanese inscription of the pot near Maja-
pahit].

Nogmaals de Sanskrit inscriplie op der steen van Dinojo
by J. G. de Casparis—[The Dinaja inscription is re-edited
here with emendations of previous readings. Some of these
emendations have new historical significance. ‘The royal
genealogy, though mainly agreeing with that of Bosch, eli-
minates Prada. According to the new reading the name of
the kingdom is Kafijuruhan, which is brought in connexion
with the hamlet Kejuran on the Kali Merto and with the
Old-Jav. official title Kanuruhan in such titles as rakai
hanuruhan].

Enkele Balische Spelen (Il) by Dr. J. L. Swellengrebel—
[Describes some Balinese games].

Tijdschrift voor Indische té
1941, 81, afl. 3.

land- en Volken-Kunde,

Enkele historische en sociologische gegevens uit de
Balische oorkonden by Dr. R. Goris—[[The historical and
sociological data contained in Balinese inscriptions ranging
from 882 to 1342 A.D. are treated in a systematic way with
the writer's comments thereon. What is needed however, is
the publication of text of all inscriptions known so far, the
preparation of dynastic and topographic charts, the compi-
lation of lists of important words together with the collection
of the social and religious data. ‘This would require years
of arduous and patient labour].

Strophe 14 van de Sanskrit-Zijde der Calcutta-Oorkonde
by R. M. Ng. Dr. Poerbatjaraka—[Offers some improve-
ment in the reading of the [4th strophe of the Calcutta ins-
cription (Sanskrit) and re-edits the Old-Jav. face of the same
transcribing full names of some historical personages which
appear in mutilated form in other inscriptions].

H. B. SarKaR

Google
SELECT CONTENTS OF ORIENTAL JOURNALS 55

Bulletin de !Eoole Francaise d’ Extreme-Orient, Tome

XL, (1940) Fasc. 2., Hanoi, 1941.

jaya. By K. A. Nilakanta Sastri. [A compre-
hensive, critical and up-to-date review of the much
discussed history of this kingdom under the following
(@ Introductory, (b) Beginnings of Sri Vijaya, (c) The
iptions, (d) Sri Vijaya in the 8th century,
(e) The Sailendras, (f) Sri Vijaya in the 10th century,
(g) Sri Vijaya and the Cholas, (h) Sri Vijaya in the 13th
century, (i) Last days of Sri Vijaya, (j) Notes on Sri Vijaya
art.]

Etudes Cambodgiennes. Par G. Goedds

XXXIII La destination funéraire des grands monuments
khmérs. [Discusses the purpose of several stone cubes
recently brought to light by the Conservation of Ankor. At
first sight they appear to be sarcophagi for the dead.
Examination of this hypothesis would throw new light upon
nature of the great monuments of Ankor. Royal cult
consisting in erection of portrait-statues of kings attested by
Cambodian epigraphy, as also in India, Champa and
other countries of Exterior India. Word dharma used in
final stanzas of inscriptions at Ankor epoch signifies what
the king has received from his predecessors and transmitted
to his successors what assures transmission of legitimate
royal authority, of the hereditary royal substance. Custom
of placing sarcophagi within Khmér monuments seems
certain and is analogous to Javanese-Balinese custom,
On the question in dispute between M. Przyluski and the
writer viz. whether Ankor Vat is a temple or tomb, the
writer’s present opinion derived from a more thorough
study of Javanese-Balinese data and the recent discovery
of sarcophagi in the Ankor monuments that it is both a
temple and a tomb. Ankor Vat is the last residence of a
being who enjoyed in his life-time certain divine prerogatives
and who has been assimilated toa deity after death. It ie
the funerary palace in which reposes his mortal remains and

Google
56 SELECT CONTENTS OF ORIENTAL JOURNALS

where also stands his statue representing him under divine
features. The expression ‘funerary Temple’ proposed by
Dr. F. D. K. Bosch or the term ‘mausoleum’ might properly
be applied to monuments of this type.}

Les traces de I’ introduction du bouddhisme, a Luang
Prabang. Par Paul Levy.
[Utilises the data derived from four statues in the round
and one long inscription discovered by the writer in the
course of a recent tour in Laos.]

Notes d’architecture birmane. Par Henri Marchal.

[Study of two typical monuments of classical period of
Burman architecture; (a) a temple at Hmawza (Srikgetra
or Old Prome, capital of the Pyu), (b) a small temple at
Pagan (later capital). First specimen shows that vaults with
keystones of converging joints were known in Burma in
the 8th century A.D., the supposed date of the monument.
This mode of construction which is general in all the ancient
temples of this region is not found before the 13th century
either in India or in Java or in Siam or in Cambodia. It
is the vault in horizontal courses in corbel which was the
general rule throughout the mediaeval Far East. This little
temple is the prototype of Burman temples at Pagan; by
the simplicity of its plan (an inner rectangular hall preceded
bya porch) and the superimposed fronts enclosing one
another in the fagade, it anticipates the general character
of the Burman temples of the IIth and 12th centuries. The
second temple has in the inside a central group in masonry
with a surrounding corridor, a feature found neither in
Java nor in Cambodia, nor in Champa but occurring equally
well in Hindu architecture. It shows the same kind of
construction as temple No. I. Origin of the arch with
keystone in Burma could only be looked for in China, since
at this epoch this process of construction was unknown in
all neighbouring lands.]

U. N. Ghoshal

Google
ADDITIONS TO THE LIBRARY

The *Greater India Society acknowledges with thanks
the receipt of the following periodicals and books during
the last six months.

Periodioals

1 Annals of the Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute,
vel. XXII, Parts I-11, 1941 and vol. XXII, Parts HI-IV,
1941.

2 Do Index to volumes I-XXI (1919-1940).

3 Adyar Library Bulletin, vol. VI, Part 1, 17th February,
1942.

4 Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute, Poona. Report

for 1940-41.

Djawa, 2\st Jaargang No. 6, November, 1941.

Fiftieth and Fifty-first Annual Reports of the Adyar

Library, 1935-1937.

Fifty-fourth Annual Report, Adyar Library, 1939-40.

Indian Culture, vol. VII, No. 4, April, 1941.

Indian Historical Quarterly, vol. XVII, No. 3, Septem-

ber 1941.

10 Journal of Indian History, vol. XX, Part 2, August, 1941.

W Do Do vol. XX, Part 3, December, 1941.

12 Journal of Sri Venkatesvara Oriental Institute, Tirupati,
vol. Il, No. 2, July-December, 1941.

13 Journal of the Thailand Research Society, vol. XXXII,

Pt. Il, November, 1941.
14 Man in India, vol. XXI, No. 4, October-December, 1941.

15 New Indian Antiquary, Vol. ll, No. 10, January, 1940.

16 Quarterly Journal of the Mythic Society, vol. XXXIIl,
No. I, July, 1941.

17 Tijdschrift voor Indische Taal, Land-en-volken kunde,
Deel LXXXIl, Aflevering 1, 1942. Batavia.

ou

con

Google
58 ADDITIONS TO THE LIBRARY

Books, pamphlets eto.

Arabica & Islamica. By U. Wayriffe. Luzac & Co.

London, 1940.

2 A Report on the Working of the State Museum, Pudu-
kkottai for Fasli 1350, July 1, 1940 to June, 30, 1941.
Pudukkottai, 1941.

3 A Short Guide to Padmanabhapuram. By R. Vasudeva
Poduval, B.A. Trivandrum, 1941.

4 Catalogus der Praehistorische Verzameling. Door

Dr. A. N. J. Th. 4 Th. van der Hoop, A.C. Nix & Co,

Bandoeng, 1941.

Grammatica van het Waropensch. Door Dr. G. G.

Held. A.C. Nix & Co., Bandoeng, 1942.

Rapporten 1938. Koninklijk Bataviaasch Genotschap van

Kunsten en Wetenschappen, Batavia, 1941.

6 Ramayana Polity. By Miss P. C. Dharma, M.A., D. Lite,
The Madras Law Journal Press. Madras, 1941.

7 Sichule Texte, von Dr. Hans Kahler. A.C. Nix & Co.
Bandoeng, 1940.

8 Travancore Archaeological Series, vol. IX. By R.
Vasudeva Poduval B.A., Trivandrum, 1941.

9 Travancore Inscriptions—A Topographical List. By
R. Vasudeva Paduval B.A. Trivandrum, 1941.

10 Woordenlijst van het Waropensch. Door Dr. G. J.
Held. A. C. Nix & Co. Bandoeng, 1942.

Il Yale University Publications in Anthropology, Numbers

twenty-three and twenty-four. Excavations in the Ft.

Liberté region, Haiti. By Frselich G. Rainey. Culture of

the Ft. Liberté region, Haiti. By Irving Rouse. London,

1941.

Printed and Published by Sj. J.C. Sarkhel, Manager, Calcutta Oriental
Press Ltd., 9, Panchanan Ghose Lane, Caleutta.

Google
THE

JOURNAL

OF THE
GREATER INDIA SOCIETY
Vou. 1X Jury, 1942 No. 2

Progress of Greater Indian Research
during the last twenty-five
years (1917-42)

By U. N. GHosHAL

AFGHANISTAN

‘The systematic investigation of the ancient sites in
Afghanistan dates only from 1922, when, thanks to the
tiative of Prof. A. Foucher, France acquired from the
Afghan Government a thirty years’ monopoly for archzeo-
logical exploration in the country. The opportunity thus
presented in a land, to which access had for some long time
been barred with seven seals, was eagerly utilised by a
brilliant band of French scholars who gave to the world
the results of their wonderful discoveries in a series of
magnificent volumes (in French) called Memoirs of the
French Archaeological Delegation in Afghanistan. These
works have revealed to us numerous traces of great schools
of art—of sculptures in stucco and clay and of mural paint-
ings—of the 3rd-4th to the 7th-8th centuries, to which have
been given as indicative of their complex composition, the
designations of “Graeco-Buddhist” and ‘‘Irano-Buddhist””
art. Fragmentary as they often are, these objects of art
represent fresh and vigorous offshoots of the decadent
schoo] of: Gandhara and form in their turn, as hag been

Google
60 U. N. GHOSHAL

well said, “‘an ante-chamber to the art of Central Asia”
(René Grousset). For it was there that grew up those schools
which were destined to attain their full development at
Khotan, Kucha, Turfan and other famous Central Asian
centres. We can only find time to describe in the present
place some of the more important discoveries that have
rewarded the labours of the French archaeologists. On the
site of Hadda (known as Hi-lo by the Chinese Buddhist
pilgrims and reputed to contain a collar-bone and a tooth
of Buddha), J. J. Barthoux discovered between 1925 and
1928 the remains of a vast ancient city with hundreds of
stapas and thousands of stucco sculptures. The results
thus obtained were given out in two elaborate volumes
(Les Fouilles de Hadda; tome Ill, Figures et figurines,
Paris 1930; Ibid., tome 1, Stapas et sites, Paris, 1933). The
former contains reproductions with short descriptions of 478
sculptures, mainly all heads, in stucco representing figures
of Buddhas demons and warriors, which were found among
the ruins of the 531 stipas excavated at Hadda, while the
Jatter gives a minute account of the methods of constructing
the stipas and attached buildings as well as of the
structures belonging to seven different areas. It is interest-
ing to learn that the stépas exhibit a development of the
depressed forms of Bharhut and Sanchi towards more ele-
vated, slender and graceful types, ae they generally consist
of “‘a double square basement supporting two cylindrical
drums which in their turn are surmounted by a third low
drum and a dome.”’ The stucco figures, comprising those
of Buddhas, of deities and demi-gods and of groups of human
worshippers indicate a masterly execution far surpassing the
conventional and effeminate products of the Gandhara school.
Another famous site which has been examined by the French
scholars is the cliff of Bamiyan renowned from early times
for its colossal Buddhas and its innumerable decayed cave
shrines and monasteries. Between 1922 and 1924 thie
famous group of monuments was thoroughly examined by
A. Godard, Mme. Y. Godard and J. Hackin. In their great
work called Les antiquités bouddhiques de Bamiyan,

Google
PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN RESEARCH 6

(Paris 1928), they reproduced a number of frescoes which
have been rightly described as the earliest extant Buddhist
paintings after those of Ajanta (Caves IX and X) and Miran.
These paintings of which the earliest go back to the 5th or
6th century A.D. exhibit a strange medley of Indian, Iranian
and Chinese influences. In the above-named work the
authors also described the famous colossal Buddhas and
illustrated with adequate plans and designs the equally
famous Buddhist caves. A new series of excavations
undertaken at Bamiyan by J. Hackin and J. Carl
in 1930 led to the discovery of one of the oldest caves
(dated c. 3rd century A.D.) in the vicinity of one of the
colossal Buddhas. Other discoveries consisted of Sanskrit
Mss. in birch-bark as well as an octagonal grotto in the ad-
joining cliff of Kakrak with decorative paintings indi-
cating Iranian influences. These finds have been des-
cribed with adequate illustrations in Hackin and Carl's
work Nouvelles recherches archéologiques @ Bamiyan,
(Paris 1933), where attention is drawn to the characteristic
blending of Indian, Iranian and Hellenistic influences on
this local art. The Iranian element, indeed assumed from
the end of the 5th century such an important part as to
justify the application of the epithet ‘Irano-Buddhist’ to the
later art of Bamiyan. The Sanskrit Mes. from Bamiyan
were edited (J.A., 1932) by the late Prof. Sylvain Lévi,
who identified them as comprising fragments of Abhidharma
texts of Mahayana schools, of the Vinaya of the Mahasa
ghikas and of a rare Abhidharma text of the Sarvastivadins.
While the French explorations at Hadda and Bamiyan
have yielded the happiest results, discoveries of striking
interest have also been made at less known sites. At the
hill of Khair Khaneh, north-west of Kabul, J. Carl excavat-
ed in 1934 the remains of a most interesting temple recalling
the construction of the Sivite temple of Gupta times at
Bhumara in Central India, Another discovery was that of
unique Sirya image in white marble showing distinct
influences of Iranian art of the 4th century A.D. (See J.
Hackin and J. Carl, Recherches archéologiques au col de

Google
62 U. N. GHOSHAL

Khair Khaneh prés de Kabul, Paris 1936; also J. Hackin,
Explorations of the neck of Khair Khanch near Kabul,
J.G.LS., Vol. Ill, No. 1, Jan. 1936), The excavations of
J. Hackin on the ancient site of Begram (Kapiéi of Sanskrit
literature) in 1937 resulted in the discovery of a mass of
ivories with designs recalling the Mathura art of the Kushan
epoch and forming in fact the only surviving samples of
Indian ivory-work of that early date, (For a description of
the above illustrated with plates, see J. Hackin, Recherches
archéologiques a Begram, tome | Text, tome Il Plates, Paris
1939), The very interesting excavations of the French
archaeologists at Fondukistan, east of Bamiyan, in 1937,
brought to light an old (7th century) Buddhist sanc-
tuary with its appendages. Among the most precious
discoveries on this site are a number of clay modellings
and mural paintings of predominantly Indian type recalling
Gupta and Pala models. (See J. Hackin, The Buddhist
monastery of Fondukistan, J.G.1.S., Vol. VII, Nos. 1 & 2,
Jan. & July, 1940).

CENTRAL ASIA

In the first seven or eight centuries of the Christian era
the Chinese province of Sinkiang (or Eastern Turkestan), now
almost wholly a sandy waste, was a land of smiling cities
with rich sanctuaries and monasteries stocked with magni-
ficent libraries and works of art. With a population at pre-
sent predominantly Muslim in religion and Turkish in
speech, it was in those days by virtue of its geographical
situation the meeting-place of diverse peoples of Iranian,
Indian, Turkish, Chinese, Tibetan and other speech and of
diverse religions, Buddhist, Manichaean, Nestorian, Christian
and so forth. The chance finds, during the last decade of
the 19th century, of Mss. in Sanskrit, Prakrit and ‘unknown
languages’ together with those of antiquities displaying
affinities to the Hellenistic art of Gandhara, stimulated the
zeal of M.A. Stein, already famous as the editor and tran-
slator of Kalhana's Rdjatarangini. A handsome subsidy of
the Government of India enabled him to accomplish (1900-

Google
PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN RESEARCH 63

1901) his much-desired object of an archaeological expedi-
tion into Central Asia. The result of this mission so fully
justified itself as to allow Stein with the usual subsidies of the
Government of India to lead two more archaeological expedi-
tions into the country (1906-1908) and (1913-1916). The
other nations were not behind hand in following Stein's
example. There ensued a sort of international competi-
tion for unveiling the secrets of the lost Asiatic civilisation.
A German expedition under the auspices of the Royal
Museum of Ethnography in Berlin led by A. Griin-
wedel and E. Huth visited the sites of Turfan and Kucha
(1902-1903). This was followed by the first Royal Prussian
expedition (1904-1905) led by A. von Le Coq, a second one
(1905-1907) under Griinwedel and Le Cog, and a third
one (1913-14) under Le Cog. The German missions syn-
chronised with a series of Russian expeditions of which the
second one visited Kucha in 1906, the third discovered the
ancient city of Karakhoto in 1908, while the fourth surveyed
Tun-huang in 1914. The Japanese, not to be outdone by
other nations, sent two successive missions (1902-04, 1908-09)
to visit Turfan, Khotan, Kucha and other sites. The French
had also their share in what had become an international
enterprise. A mission under Prof. Paul Pelliot visited
(1906-09) Kucha, Tun-huang and other sites from which it
brought back a rich spoil of Mss. and objects of art. In
1927-28 Emil Trinkler visited a part of Chinese Turkestan,
discovering stucco sculptures in Gandhara style and frescoes
similar to those of Miran (See his report in Sinica, vol. VI,
pp. 34-40). Three successive Russian expeditions led by
B. Déniké into Russian Turkestan between the year 1926
and 1928 resulted in the discovery at the site of Terméz of
Buddhist antiquities in the usual Gandhara style (See A.
Strelkoff, Les monuments pre-Islamiques de Terméz in
Artibus Asiae, 1928-29). In recent times Renascent China
has boldly asserted its claim to the fellowship of the ad-
vanced nations of the East and the West by sending ite own
missions of archaeological exploration to Khotan, Turfan
and other sites.

Google
64 U. N. GHOSHAL

The epoch-making discoveries following from the above
expeditions, which can only be compared for their magni-
tude and interest with those of the lost civilisations of Egypt
and Babylonia began to be made known to the world out-
side in the first decade of the present century. In his
Sand-buried ruins of Khotan. Stein gave a popular account
of his first expedition, while a scientific description of the
same was given in his great work Ancient Khotan (Vol.1
Text, Vol. II Plates, London, 1907). Among the sites
described by the daring explorer as yielding the most
important Indian antiquities may be mentioned Dandan-
oilik, Niya, Endere and Rawak. From these sites
were obtained amid the ruins of Buddhist shrines and
monasteries tempera paintings and stucco images, Buddhist
texts written in Sanskrit, Khotanese and other languages on
paper and other materials in varieties of the Gupta script, and
wooden documents in the Indian North-West Prakrit and
Kharogthi script. These last related to matters of official
correspondence, official and semi-official records and so
forth. In the meantime Prof. Griinwedel published his
valuable report, on his archaeological work in the Turfan
region and another volume on the old Buddhist cult-places
in Chinese Turkestan (Bericht iiber archaeologisch
arbeiten in Idykutschari und Umgebung, Miinchen 1906; Alt-
Buddhistischen Kultstatten in Chinesisch Turkestan, Berlin
1912). Shortly afterwards Le Coq published his work Cho-
tscho (Berlin 1913), describing the Buddhist sculptures and
mural paintings of that ancient city. These fruitful labours
were cut short by the outbreak of the Great World-War in
1914. But no sooner was that tragic episode over than thes
work was resumed in right earnest. Stein gave a “Detailed
Account” of his second Central Asian expedition (of which
a ,‘Personal Narrative’? had alr been published under
the title Ruins of Desert Cathay in 1911) in his stupendous
work Serindia in three volumes (London, 1921). The chief
discoveries of Indian antiquities effected during this expe-
dition were made at Khadalik, Niya, Endere, Lou-lan and
Miran, and lastly and above all, Tun-huang on the outskirts

Google
PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN RESEARCH 65

of the Chinese province of Kan-su. From the first five sites
were discovered stucco figures and. wall-paintings, Sanskrit,
Prakrit, Khotanese and other Mss., documents in Kharogthi
script and North-Western Prakrit on wood, paper and silk,
wooden sculptures with Indian motifs. At the last-named site
Stein had the good fortune of recovering from an ancient
walled-up library an immense mass of Buddhist texte in Sans-
krit, Khotanese and Kuchean along with several thousands of
Chinese and Tibetan records dating from the 5th to the 10th
centuries A.D, and several hundreds of Buddhist paintings
on silk, cotton and paper. As Appendix E to the Serin-
dia Raphael Petrucci and Laurence Binyon published a
valuable Essay on Buddhist paintings form the caves of the
Thousand Buddhas. The scientific account of Stein's third
expedition was published in his last great work Innermost
Asia in four volumes (Oxford, 1928). The most interesting
finds of Indian antiquities and art-objects were made during
liya and Miran, at Karakhoto and at
Murtuk in the Turfan oasis. The objects recovered
consisted of Buddhist wall-paintings, Buddhist Mes. and
block-prints in a variety of languages, wooden, sculptures
illustrating Jataka scenes and containing figures of Buddhist
and Brahmanical deities, wooden documents of a secular
character in Kharogthi script and Prakrit language and 80
forth. In the meantime Prof. Griinwedel produced his
monograph on the ruins of Kucha (Alt-Kutecha, Berlin 1920).
The report of the epedition of the Russian Geographical
Society (1907-09) containing a description of the dead city
of Karakhoto was published by Kozlov and Filchner,
(authorised German translation by L. Breitfuss and P. G.
Zeidler, Berlin 1925). Of the official German expedi-
tions a popular account was given by A. von Le Coq
in his short work (in German) called On the trail of Hellas in
Eastern Turkestan (Auf Hellas Spuren in Ost Turkestan,
Leipzig, 1926; Eng. tr. by Anna Barwell, London, 1929).
A general sketch of his discoveries was given by the same
scholar in his German work called A Picture-Atlas relating
to the History of Art and Culture in Central Asia (Ein

Google
—

6 U. N. GHOSHAL

Bilder-Atlas zur Kunst-und Kultur-Geschichte Mittel-
Asiens Berlin (1925). The sites mentioned by the author as
yielding the most interesting Indian antiquities are Sangim,
Bazaklik and Kyzil. At the first-named site was discovered
an important collection of Buddhist Mss. The second which
was the seat of a great Buddhist monastic establishment with
hundreds of temples yielded wall-paintings of Indian monks
in, yellow robes (with names written in Central Asian
Brahmi) and those of East Asiatic monks in violet robes
(with names written in Chinese and Tibetan). The last site
yielded sculptures and paintaings which were also Indo-
Iranian in character besides Mss. in early Indian scripts.
A full account of the results obtained by the Japanese
expeditions to Central Asia and other lands during the
years 1902-04, 1908-09, and 1910-14 under the auspices of
Count Kozai Otani has been published (in Japanese) by Y.
Uehara, 2 Vols. Tokyo, 1937.

During the last two decades the wonderful records of
the lost civilisation of Central Asia, which have been the
spoils of the international enterprises above described,
have been systematically investigated by a host of scholars.
We shall speak first of the objects of art which have been
recovered from the various sites. The sculptures, minia-
tures, wall-paintings and images that were acquired by the
Royal Prussian Expeditions have been brilliantly reproduced
with adequate short descriptions by Prof. Le Coq in a
series of volumes bearing the title Die Buddhistische Spat-
antike in Mittelasien (Berlin, 1922-24). The title Late Anti-
que is explained by the fact that the author held the art-
objects to be based on a late phase of the ancient Greek
art. Of this work it has been rightly said that it ranks
among the finest productions of modern German colour-
Process and photo-lithography. It consists of seven Parts
bearing (in English) the titles I The Plastic, II The Mani-
chaean miniatures, [II The Wall-paintings, IV The Atlas of
wall-paintings, V, VI & VII New Sculptures, To the last part
E. Waldschmidt has added an Essay on the style of the wall-
paintings from Kyzil, identifying nearly 80 Jatakas and

Google
PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN RESEARCH 67

Avadanas and noticing the mingling of Indian, Iranian and
Hellenistic elements in the composition. Of equal interest with
the above is the publication of the art-objects recovered
from the world-famed “Caves of the Thousand Buddhas”
at Tun-huang by the Pelliot and Stein expeditions, in a
series of magnificent volumes. Prof, Pelliot published in six
Parts a protfolio of three hundred and seventy-six Plates
illustrating his collection of Buddhist paintings and sculptures
from the 182 caves of the monument (P. Pelliot, Les grottes
de Touen Houang; Peintures et sculptures bouddhiques des
époques des Wei, des T’ang et des Song, tomes 1-3, Paris,
1920; tomes 4-5, Paris, 1921; tome 6, Paris, 1924). The
paintings on silk and linen banners from the Stein collection
were similarly reproduced in the work The Thousand Bud-
dhas; Ancient Buddhist paintings from the cave-temples of
Tun-huang on the Western frontier of China recovered and
described by Sir Aurel Stein. Introductory essay by L.
Binyon. Descriptive text by A. Stein, London 1921. A cata-
logue of five-hundred and fifty-four paintings of the Stein
collection (of which two hundred and eighty-two are
preserved in the British Museum and the rest in the
Central Asian Antiquities Museum at Delhi) was published
by A. Waley in 1931. It contains, along with general notices
of the iconography and styles of the paintings, minute des-
criptions of the individual pieces, Useful catalogues of the
Stein collection of wall-paintings have since been published
by F. H. Andrews (Delhi, 1933 and 1935). Of these wall-
paintings it may be said that while they were all Buddhistic
with a few Manichaean exceptions they are mainly inspired
by the late Hellenistic art, their dates ranging from the
third to the tenth century. Nevertheless the reproduc-
tion of the wall-paintings, which has been undertaken by
the Government of India, still awaits publication.

From a general review of the Indian antiquities described
by the above authors, it appears that a few of them belong to
the Brahmanical culture. Such are the seals with effigies of
Kubera and Trimukha discovered by Stein at Niya (aban-
doned before the end of the 2nd century A.D.) and the

2

Google
68 U. N. GHOSHAL

painted Ganeéa at Endere. But by far the largest number
of paintings and sculptures belongs to the Mahayanist
Buddhist culture. The figures or scenes represented are
those of Buddhas, Bodhisattvas and lesser divinities, of the
Buddhist paradise, of Mandalas and they are often accom-
panied by figures of donors of a particularly individualistic
type. Thus in his great work Serindia (Chs. xxii-xxiii)
Stein divides the paintings from the closed chapel at the
Caves of the Thousand Buddhas into five classes according
to subjects, These are (I) Scenes from Buddha's life, (2)
Buddhas and Bodhisattvas, (3) Lokapalas and Vajrapanis,
(4) Divine groups and (5) Buddhist paradise. While the
topics of most of the paintings are Buddhistic, they belong
to an extra-ordinary variety of styles. At Turfan Griin-
wedel was able to distinguish no less than five or six diff-
erent schools of paintings: Gandharian, Indo-Scythian, old
Turki, Uigur and Tibetan, The same variety of styles has
been noticed by Le Coq in his description of the wall-
paintings in the Second Part of his work on Buddhist Late
Antique Art above mentioned. The paintings from the
Caves of the Thousand Buddhas which illustrate the
Buddhist religious art of the T’ang period (618.907 A.D.)
and have been described to be for China what Ajanta is
for India, have been shown (Cf, Pellict, Les Grottes de
Touen-howang) to represent the mingling of Chinese,
Graeco-Indian and Iranian elements, To illustrate the cos-
mopolitan character of the Buddhist art of Central Asia,
one further example will suffice, As Stein has shown, the
frescoes of the ancient Buddhist sanctuaries at Miran, which
are dated about the 4th century A.D., have affinities with
the Romano-Syrian and the Copto-Hellenistic art of the
early Christian centuries.

From the point of view of Greater Indian research, the
chief interest, naturally enough, belongs to the discovery, at
various Central Asian sites, of Buddhist and other Indian
texts written in Sanskrit and Prakrit as well as in the various
local languages current at the time. Written in ink on
birch-bark or paper or wood or leather, in Kharosthi or

Google
PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN RESEARCH 6

several varieties of the Indian Gupta script, these texts
(along with others in Chinese and Tibetan) have restored to
us, if in fragments, numerous works of Indian literature
either in their originals or in translagjgns. In the task of
publication of these precious records the pioneer worker
was the late A. F. Rudolf Hoernle, who edited in the last
decade of the !9h century the celebrated Bower Mss.
acquired by L. Bower in 1889 in the course of his journey
through Kucha. These Mss. written in Sanskrit on. birch-
bark in North-West Gupta characters of the 5th century A.D.
consisted of a miscellaneous collection of medical treatises,
proverbial sayings and the like. Other Mes. of the same
type from the Godfrey, Macartney and Weber collections
were edited by Hoernle in the closing years of the last
century. More important was the publication by the illus-
trious French scholar E. Senart (J.A., 1898) of the fragment
of the Dhammapada in the North-Western Prakrit and in
Kharogthi script, acquired by Dutreuil de Rhins at Khotan
in 1893. The rich store of materials acquired by the orga-
nised Central Asian expeditions from the early years of the
present century has been the occasion for a fresh series of
scholarly publications. Selected Sanskrit Buddhist texts
from the Stein collection from Tun-huang were edited by
Sylvain Lévi (J.A., 1910) and by Vallée Poussin (J.R.A.S.,
1911, 1912, 1913). In the Manuscript Remains of Buddhist
Literature found in Eastern Turkestan, ed. A. F. Rudolf
Hoernle, Vol. I, Oxford 1916) Hoernle, Liiders, Pargiter and
F. W. Thomas published the text and translation (with
notes and comparison of parallel versions) of the fragments
of no less than 26 Buddhist texts from the Sanskrit canon,
of which no less than 2! belong to the Vinaya and the
(Hinayana as well as Mahayana) Sitra Pitaka, while 2 are
Stotras of celebrated poet Matricheta, of which I-Tsing in
the seventh century wrote, “These charming compositions
are equal in beauty to the heavenly flowers, and the high
principles which they contain rival in dignity the lofty peaks
of a mountain.” The, texts are written in paper in ‘upright’
and ‘standing’ Gupta characters of the 4th or 5th century

Google
7 U. N. GHOSHAL

and the Mss. were recovered from various Central Asian
sites. We may next mention An Inventory List of Manus-
cript remains mainly in Sanskrit by F. E. Pargiter and
another Inventory List of Manuscript remains in Sanskrit,
Khotanese and Kuchean by Sten Konow, which were pub-
lished as Appendices E. and F. of Stein’s Innermost Asia
already mentioned. Meanwhile H. Liiders started a masterly
series of publications of ‘Smaller Sanskrit texts’ recovered
by the Royal Prussian Turfan expeditions. In the
first volume of this series called Bruchstiicke Bud-
dhistischer Dramen (Kieinere Sanskrit Texte I, Leip-
zig 1911) Liders edited with his usual thoroughness the
fragments of three Sanskrit dramas (including the Sariputra-
prakarana of Aévaghoga), written on palmleaf in the
script of the Northern Kgatrapa and Kushan inscriptions,
which were found by Le Coq at Ming-Oi and have been
since shown to be the oldest specimens of the Sanskrit
drama. In the same series Liiders contributed, (Leipzig
1926) his scholarly edition of the fragments of the Kalpana-
manditika of Kumaralata, a collection of pious legends af
the fashion of Jatakas and Avadanas written by one of Agva-
ghoga’s junior contemporaries. In recent times E. Walds-
chmidt has published (in German) in the same series (Leipzig,
1926 and 1932) fragments of the Bhikguni-Pratimokga of the
Sarvastivadins and the first volume of fragments of Buddhist
sitras from the Central Asian Sanskrit canon, With this we
may mention the edition of the Sanskrit original of the
Kaéyapaparivarta with Tibetan and Chinese versions by
Baron A. von Stéel Holstein (Shanghai, 1926). Among Indian
scholars who have taken part in the publication of Central
Asian Sanskrit texts we may mention N, P. Chakravarti
who has edited and translated a text of the Sanskrit Uda
varga from the Pelliot collection (L’ Ud@navarga sanskrite,
Paris 1930).

We have now to notice the advance, in the last two
decades, of the study and interpretation of the Kharostht
inscriptions in North-Western Prakrit, which have been found
in such large numbers at Khotan and other sites, Unlike

a

Google
PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN RESEARCH F i

the Sanskrit texts, the Prakrit documents are of a wholly
secular character. We learn from them how this Indian
language of the North-Western region was used in Khotan
and neighbouring areas in the early centuries of the Chris-
tian era not only for administration, but also for the business
of every-day life. Indeed it has been shown that the
Khotan region was ruled in these early days by kings bear-
ing Indian names with the dynastic title vijita (See Sten
Konow, Remarks on the Khotanese Jatakastava, 1.H.Q.,
XVI, 1940), The complete reproduction of the Kharogthi
inscriptions of the Stein collection is due to the joint labours
of several English and French scholars whose work appears
under the title Kharogthi inscriptions discovered by Sir
Aurel Stein in Chinese Turkestan. Part 1. Text of inscriptions
discovered at the Niya site, 1901, transcribed and edited by
A. M. Boyer, E. J. Rapson and E. Senart, Oxford, 1920.
Part, II. Text of Inscriptions discovered at the Niya, Endere
and Lou-lan sites, 1906-7, transcribed and edited (as
above). Oxford 1927. Part Ill. Text of inscriptions dis-
covered at the Niya and Lou-lan sites, 1913-14, transcribed
and edited by E. J. Rapson and P. S. Noble, Oxford, 1929.
In his work The language of the Kharosthi documents from
Chinese Turkestan (Cambridge, 1937) T. Burrow has shown
how this language corresponds closely to that of the post-
Aéokan inscriptions from North-Western India and less
closely with the Prakrit version of the Dhammapada. The
same scholar has very recently published A translation of
the Kharosthi documents from Chinese Turkestan, (London,
1940), giving a translation of all the 740 documents—letters,
reports, official orders, judgments etc.—that were discovered
by Sir Aurel Stein at the Central Asian sites.

Passing to the Indian records preserved in the new Indo-
European language of Central Asia which has been one of
the leading discoveries of this century, we have to begin
by pointing out that it exists in two dialects centering around
Karashar and Kucha. These have been respectively called
Tokharian A and B from their supposed connection with
the ancient Tukharas. With better reason they have been res-

Google
n U.N. GHOSHAL

pectively styled Karasharian and Kuchean from their res-
pective centres. For the publication of texts in these langu-
ages we are indebted mainly to French and German scholars.
In J.A.S.B. 1901 Hoernle published Kuchean fragments of
a medical treatise from Central Asia, of which, however,
he was unable to offer any interpretation. Later on Sylvain
Lévi and A. Meillet edited (j.A., 1911-12) fragments of a
fresh Kuchean medical treatise, while Lévi edited (Man
cript Remains, Oxford, 1916) the Kuchean Pratimokga and its
historical commentary of the Sarvastivada Vinaya school.
The last-named scholar published his Notes on Ms.
Remains in Kuchean as Appendix G to Stein's Innermost
Asia. Above all he edited and translated a series of
Buddhist texts, Udanavarga, Udanasitra, Udanalamkara
and Karmavibhanga (Fragments de textes Koutchéens,
Paris, 1933). While Kuchean texts have thus been
interpreted by Sylvain Lévi from the Stein and other
collections, those in the sister dialects from the Griinwedel
and Le Coq collections have been studied by the German
scholars. To E. Sieg and W. Siegling we owe the publi-
cation of Buddhist fragments (Tocharische Sprachreste,
1921) and a classical grammar (Tocharische Grammatik,
1931) in the Tochariani language. To Prof, Liiders belongs
the credit of discovering not only the original name
Agnidega of Karashar, but also a list of its kings,
Indrarjuna, Chandrarjuna and so forth. Of the two regions
Kucha and Karashar, the first has been shown by Prof.
Lévi (J.A. 1913; J.R.A.S. 1914) to have played by far the
more important part in the propagation of Buddhism into
China. Reference may be made in this connection to the
famous Kumarajiva of Kucha, one of the greatest apostles
of Chinese Buddhism. As Lévi has shown (op. cit.), the exist-
ing records prove that the civilisation of Kucha was wholly
Indian and Buddhist. Sanskris evidently was the sacred
language. The Katantra grammar was studied and, as is
shown by the surviving parallel versions of Sanskrit and
Kuchean texts, verbatim translations were made from the
Sanskrit. The surviving Kuchean literature consists of frag-

Google
PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN RESEARCH 3

ments of the Vinaya of the Sarvastivadin school, of imita-
tions of Sanskrit Avadanas, of Mahayana and Buddhist
Tantrik texts, and lastly, of works of half-dramatic, half-
narrative type with Buddha and mythical kings as heroes
and the inevitable Viddsaka as their attendant.

Besides the records preserved in the Indo-European
language just noticed, Central Asia has yielded other texts
written in Soghdian and Khotanese (otherwise called Saka
or North-Aryan), two hitherto unknown languages belong-
ing to the Iranian branch of the Indo-European family.
During the last two decades the Buddhist texts in Soghdian
have been published mainly by French and German scholars,
such as P. Pelliot, E. Benveniste, Fr. Weller and F. W. K.
Miller. To the German scholar Hans Reichelt, we owe
the publication of the fragments of Buddhist texts belonging
to the British Museum collection of Soghdian Mss. (Die
Soghdischen Handschriftenreste des Britischen Museums, I
Teil, Die Buddhistischen Texte, Heidelberg 1928). The
Notes on Manuscript Remains in Soghdian by E. Benveniste
and the Inventory List of Ms. fragments in Uighur, Mongol
and Soghdian by A. von Le Coq were published as Appen-
dices H and K in Stein's great work Innermost Asia above
mentioned. Mention may be made in the present place of
the classical work om Soghdian grammar (Essai de gram-
maire Sogdienne) published in two parts, Part I by R.
Gauthiot (Paris 1921) and Part Il by E. Benveniste (Paris
1929). As for the Khotanese texts, Sten Konow published
(Manuscript Remains, Oxford 1916) two complete Khotanese
Mes. of the Vajracchedika and the Aparimitayuh Satra from
the Stein collection with English translation, corresponding
Sanskrit (or Sanskrit and Tibetan) versions and a vocabulary.
The Saka studies by Konow (Oslo, 1932) contained his edition
of the fragments of the Middle-Iranian version of the
Sarhghata-siitra with a grammatical sketch and vocabulary
of the language. More recently Konow has edited
(S.P.A. 1935, pp. 772-823) some texts from the
Maralbashi site written in a cognate dialect, which are
dated by the regnal year of a king bearing the Indian

Google
” U.N. GHOSHAL

name of Vasudeva. A complete poem in Khotanese
Saka, the Jatakastava of 'ianasraya, has since been
reproduced (B.S.O.S., IX, 4) from the Stein collection of Tun-
huang Mss. by H. W. Bailey. This interesting work is a
collection of verses in praise of Buddha's deeds in previous
births and is of the same nature as the Chariyapitaka of the
Pali canon. It is dedicated by its author to a king bearing
the Indian name of Sri Vijaya Sara.

Coming to the Central Asian records written in the
ancient Turki languages, we have to notice the important
work done in the publication of Buddhist texts by German
scholars. To F. W. K. Miiller we owe the publication of
a few Buddhist Uigur Mss. including fragments of the
Suvamaprabhasa Sitra and of Tantric texts from the Turfan
finds (A.B.A., 1908, 1911; S.B.A., 1916; S.P.A.W.,
1928, 1931 etc.), In a series of papers called Tiirkische
Turfan-Texte W. Bang and A. von Gabain have published
another series of Buddhist (including Tantric) Turkish texts
from Turfan (S.P.A.W., 1930, 1931, 1934 etc.). Some
Avadina stories from the Turkish Manuscript fragments
were translated by F. W. K. Miiller in the series Uigurica
(S.P.A.W., 1931 etc.).

We come now to the Indian documents written in the
little-known Tangut (Si-hia) language, that have been re-
covered principally from the forgotten city of Karakhoto by
the Russian expedition under Kozloff and the third Stein
expedition as well as later Chinese missions. Here the
important work has been done by French and Russian as
well as Chinese and Japanese scholars. In J.4. 1914 and
1920 P. Pelliot published a few Buddhist texts from the
Kozloff collection preserved in the Asiatic Museum at
Leningrad. In the Bulletin of the National Library of
Peiping (vol. IV, No, 3, May-June 1930) a valuable collec-
tion of Buddhist texts in the same language together with a
catalogue of the Si-hia translation of the Buddhist Tripitaka
was published by a group of Chinese, Japanese and
Russian scholars.

Of Indian literary works from the Central Asian finds

Google WN OF MicHi
PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN RESEARCH s

which are preserved in Tibetan, it will be enough to mention
‘one or two examples. In /ndian Studies in honour of Charles
Rockwell Lanman (Harvard University Press, 1929) F. W.
Thomas has published a paper on the Tibetan version of
the Ramayana (dated 700-900 A.D.). “‘It follows the
general lines of the narrative in the Mahabharata (Vana-
parvan, Chs. 270-290), but the incidents and the nomen-
clature differ widely and indeed surprisingly.” In
Tibetan Literary texts and documents concerning Chinese
Turkestan, Part II (Royal Asiatic Society, London F. W.
Thomas has translated the Tibetan documents of the Stein
collection.”

We have to notice, in the last place, the Chinese
Buddhist documents recovered from Tun-huang and other
sites by the several national expeditions. In the publica-
tion and interpretation of such texts very valuable work
has recently been done by Japanese scholars. Of the great
Taisho edition of the Chinese Tripitaka, published by J.
Takakusu and K. Watanabe in 55 vols, (Tokyo 1924-29),
Vols. 53 and 54 contained Mss. belonging to some of the
important Central Asian collections, The valuable Cata-
logue of this monumental work (Tokyo, 1929) gave a com-
plete list of Chinese Buddhist Mss. from Tumhuang known
till then. In the concluding volume (Vol. 85) of the Com-
plement to the Taisho edition in 30 volumes (Tokyo, 1929-32)
have been published the Tun-huang Mss, preserved in the
British Museum, the Bibliothéque Nationale and the Japanese
collections. In 1933, K. Yabuki published a masterly com-
mentary on the Tun-huang Mss. of the Stein collection,
which had been already edited by him in 1931. The Chinese
Buddhist texts from Tun-huang have also been examined by
the Chinese scholars Lieuo Fou, Tch'en Yin-ko and Tch’en
Yuan in the publications of the Academia Sinica (Peiping,
1930, 1931),

TIBET.

Tibet, ‘the land of snow’, derives its religion of Lamaism
and its Lamaist church organisation, its religious art and ita
3

Google
76 U. N. GHOSHAL

literature, from Indian inspiration, if not from direct Indian
authorship. To trace the recent progress of Tibetan studies -
in relation to Indian culture, we may properly begin with
reference to the two grand divisions (Kanjur and Tanjur)
of its huge canonical literature which is based on
Indian originals. These two grand divisions were long
known in the two editions called Peking (‘red’) and Narthang
(‘black’), Afterwards there was discovered a new and better
edition of the same from Sde-dge in Eastern Tibet. Be-
sides Baron A. von Stiel-Holstein brought to light (Peking
1934) a new Peking edition of the Kanjur published in
1692, as compared with the other Chinese editions dated
in 1410 and 1700. Another feature of recent times has been
the preparation of new catalogues of the Tibetan canon
which have wholly or partially superseded the older cata-
logues of the Kanjur by Csoma de Kérés and I. J. Schmidt
and of the Tanjur by Beckh. It is noticeable that in this
work, as in that of cataloguing the Chinese Tripitaka, the
lead has been taken by the Japanese scholars The Tohoku
Imperial University published in 1934 A complete cata-
logue of the Tibetan Buddhist canons (Bkah-hgyur and
Betan-hgyur) containing an index of 103 volumes of the
Kanjur and 205 volumes of the Tanjur in the Sde-dge edition.
More important than the above is the work A complete
analytical catalogue of the Kanjur division of the Tibetan
Tripitaka edited in Peking during the K’ang-shi era issued
by the Otani University in three parts (1930, 1931, 1932).
In this work each Sitra is compared with its corresponding
text in the Sanskrit, Pali and Chinese canons.

In recent times Tibetan Buddhist texts often accompani-
ed with the available parallel versions have been published
by a number of Russian, German, French, Italian, Japanese
and Indian scholars. Among important volumes of Indian
literature thus made available to the learned world we may
mention valuable works on Logic like Dignaga's Nydya-
mukha (ed. Tucci, 1930) and Alambanaparikga (ed. Yama-
guchi, J.A. 1929), Saikarasvamin's Nyayapravesa (ed. V.
Bhattacharyya, G.O.S, XXXIX, Baroda 1927), Dharmakirti’s

Google :
PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN RESEARCH 77

PramGnavarttika (ed. Rahula Sankrityayana, J.B.O.R.S.
(1938-39); philosophical works like Nagarjuna’s own com-
mentary (Akutobhaya) on his Madhyamikakarikés (tr. Max
Walleser, Heidelberg, 1911) the ‘Abhisamaydlarnkara
‘of Maitreyanatha (ed. Stcherbateky and Obermiller, Bib.
Buddh, XXIII 1929) and its commentary by Haribhadra (ed.
Tucci, G.O.S. LXII, and Wogihara, Tokyo 1932), Asanga’s
Mahaydnasarngraha (ed. E. Lamotte, Louvain, 1939), Vasu-
bandhu’s Abhidharmakoga (ed, in part by Vallée Poussin
and Stcherbaisky); poetical works like Aryadeva's Catuh-
‘fataka (ed. in part, V. Bhattacharyya, Viévabhirati Series
no. 2, Calcutta 1931), Reference may also be made to the
publication by J. Bacot (Paris, 1930) of a great Tibetan-
Sanskrit dictionary containing nearly 15,000 more words
than the well-known Mahdvyutpatti. (A fundamental
treatise on Tantrism in the Far East which exists in seven
Chinese and three Tibetan versions as well as a half-
Sanskrit and half East-Iranian version has been thoroughly
analysed by the Japanese scholar S$, Toganoo in 1930.
The title of this work has been restored in Sanskrit as
Nayasitra, The important History of Buddhism by Bu-ston,
throwing much valuable light upon Indian Buddhism
and Buddhist literature, has been translated from the
Tibetan with a learned Introduction and Notes by E.
Obermiller (Heidelberg, Part I, 1931, Part, Il, 1932).
Coming to religion and religious art, we have to mention
in the first place the publications of useful catalogues of
Tibetan collections in different museums of Europe and
Asia. Such are the Catalogue (in French) of the Indian and
Tibetan sculptures in the Musée Guimet by J. Hackin
(Paris, 1931) and the catalogue of the Tibetan collection in
the Louis Finot Museum by C. Pascalis (Hanoi, 1935).
The enormous influence exercised by the Pala and Sena
art of Bengal and Magadha upon the sculpture and painting
of Tibet has been stressed by René Grousset (Les Civilisa-
tions de l’Orient, tome IV, ch. 2, Paris, 1930). A first-rate
contribution to our knowledge of the tangled mythology
of Tibet is the work Two Lamdist pantheons from the

Google
ris U. N. GHOSHAL

materials collected by the late Baron A. von Stiel-Holstein
in two volumes (Harvard University Press, Cambridge,
Mass). Of outstanding importance is the work The Gods
of Northern Buddhism (London, 1929) by Alice Getty.
Mention may also be made of Sir Charles Bell's publica-
tion The Religion of Tibet (Oxford, 1931).

No one has done more in recent times to advance our
knowledge of Tibetan art and archaeology than the inde-
fatigable Italian explorer and scholar Guiseppe Tucci, who
has repeatedly visited the shrines and monasteries of
‘Western and Eastern Tibet, collecting Mss. and objects of
art and bringing to light unknown paintings and sculptures
from its secluded cloisters. His penetrating studies have
been published (in Italian) in successive volumes in the
series Indo-Tibetica, under the auspices of the Royal
Academy of Italy. In the first volume of this series (Rome,
1932) Tucci deals with the construction of the characteristic
types of stipas (mc’od rten) in Indian and Western Tibet.
The author gives reasons for thinking that the Tibetan
architectural processes relating to the construction of stdpas
were entirely derived from India. It is interesting to learn
that among the objects (ts’a ts’) deposited in the stipas
there are not only figures of Buddhist deities and sacred
objects, but also of the god Karttikeya. In the second
volume of the Indo-Tibetica (Rome, 1933) Tucci gives the
biography of a great Tibetan scholar, reformer and builder
(Rin c’en Bzan po) who introduced a Buddhist renaissance
into Tibet c. 1000 A.D. This great Tibetan monk, who
refreshed his knowledge of Buddhism from three succes-
sive visits to India, wrote after his return no less than 158
works which Tucci classifies under the three heads of Sitras
and Tantras, Commentaries on the Siitras, and Commentaries
on the Tantras, He was helped by a band of no less than
seventy-five Indian scholars whom his royal patrons, the kings
of Guge (Western Tibet), invited to their court. He also in-
vited artists from Nepal, Bengal and Kashmir to build scores
of temples and adorn them with sculptures and paintings.
The chief temple was provided with images not only of

Google
PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN RESEARCH 9

Buddhas and Bodhisattvas, but also of Tantrik deities
associated with the Guhyasamaja cycle. In the third volume
of the Indo-Tibetica (Part 1, Rome 1935; Part Il, Rome
1936) Tucci describes a number of temples of Western
Tibet with their sculptures and paintings specially from the
point of view of their artistic symbolism. The chronicle of
this mission written (in Italian) by Tucci’s companion E.
Ghersi was published separately by the Royal Academy of
Ttaly in 1933, From the standpoint of Indian culture the
interest of Tucci’s description lies in its reference to the
esoteric significance of the mandala or Tantrik cycle adopt-
ed in the Tibetan temples. Mention may also be made of
Tucci's discovery of some Buddhist frescoes (of the 10th or
Ilth century) in West Tibetan shrines, recalling the paint-
ings of Ajanta and Ellora (G. Tucci, Jndian Paintings in
Western Tibetan Temples, Artibus Asiae VII, 1937).
Among Tucci’s recent discoveries may be mentioned
that of the Mangrang monastery in Eastern Tibet with fres-
coes probably executed by Indian artists in the 12th century
and wood-work done by Kashmirian craftsmen in the same
period (see Illustrated London News, Jan, 18, 1936).

We may notice, in the last place, the fruitful travels
(specially those of 1934 and 1936) of an Indian Buddhist
monk, Rahula Sankrityayana, which have been rewarded
with discoveries of Sanskrit palm-leaf Mss. in the hidden
monastic libraries of Tibet. In J.B.O.R.S. XXI (1935) and
XXIII (1937) he has listed a series of 184 and 326 separate
Mss. which he discovered in the various Tibetan libraries.

MONGOLIA AND MANCHURIA

For the investigation of Mongolian Buddhist literature we
are chiefly indebted in recent times to Russian, German
and Japanese scholars. The West Mongol (Kalmuk) version
of the Suvarnaprabhasa Satra (one of the favourite scrip-
tures of Northern Buddhism) has been published by Erich
Haenisch (Asia Major, VIII, Leipzig). The Uigur text of
the same Sitra was edited (Bib, Buddh, XVII, 1913) by
W. W. Radlof and S. E, Malov and was translated into

Google
Bo U. N. GHOSHAL

German (Bib. Buddh. XXVII, Leningrad 1930) by the same
scholars, In 1924 Russian scholars discovered a copy of
the Mongol Tanjur at Urga. Another copy was discover-
ed in 1929 by the Japanese Prof. Haneda who took it to
the Imperial University of Kyoto. The former copy was
utilised by B. Y. Vladimircov in his edition of the Mongo-
lian version of Santideva’s Bodhicharyavatara (Bib. Buddh.
XXVIII, Leningrad, 1929).

Coming to Manchuria we have to mention the discovery
by the German scholar Walter Fuchs (0.1 » 33, 1930)
‘of two copies of the Manchurian Kanjur in a monastery
at Potala in Johol and its neighbouring temple.

BURMA

By the ninth century of the Christian era Burma with its
two great natural (Upper and Lower) divisions, bearing in
the ancient indigenous records the names of Mrammadesa
and Ramafifiadesa, was occupied by at least three distinct
Peoples all of whom were strongly influenced by Indian
civilisation, In the north lay the Burmese kingdom (Mram-
mamandala) with ite capital at Arimaddanapura (Pagan)
found in 849 A.D. In the south was situated the kingdom
of the Pyu with its capital at Srikgetra (Old Prome identi-
fied with the modern village of Hmawza near Prome). To
the south-east lay the kingdom of the Mons (or Talaings),
kinsmen (at least by speech) of the Khasis and Mundas of
India, whose capital was located at Thaton and who had
an important settlement at Harhsavati (Pegu) founded early
in the ninth century. It is only by piecing together the
evidence of the archeeological finds and stray Chinese
literary references that the lost history of Burma in early
times has been recently recovered, for notwithstanding the
abundance of local chronicles the authentic history of the
country dates only from 1057 A.D., the memorable year of
the conquest of Thaton and Pegu by the Burmese king
Anawrata.

‘The systematic investigation of the art and archaeology
of Burma begins only in the first decade of the present

Google
PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN RESEARCH 8

century, although the Archaeological Department was estab-
lished in 1899 and a serious search for antiquities had been
made by Major (afterwards Sir) Richard Temple in 1894.
‘The explorations of a French archaeologist, General L. de
Beylié, in 1905 and the following years for the first time
Arew public attention to the wealth of antiquities at Prome.
The first Superintendent of the Archaeological Department,
Taw Sein Ko, devoted his energies to the description of
some of the famous monuments of the IIth and 12th
centuries at Pagan including the Ananda temple built by
King Kyanzittha in 1090 (according to tradition) and the
Mahabodhi temple built after the model of the Bodhgaya
shrine by King Nandaungmya in 1198 A.D. He had, more-
‘over, the good fortune of discovering at Hmawza funeral urns
in earthern-ware and stone with inscriptions in the forgotten
Pyu language, a stone inscription with extracts from the Pali
canon and a Buddhist votive stiipa with images of the last
four Buddhas and inscriptions in Pyu and Pali languages.
These inscriptions were published by C. O. Blagden (Ep.
Ind. Xl) and Louis Finot (J.A. 1912). To Taw Sein Ko
also belongs the credit of publishing six volumes of a Corpus
of Burmese inscriptions. These are I Inscriptions of Pagan,
Pinya and Ava, ed. T. S. Ko, 1892; Il Inscriptions copied
from stones collected by King Bodawpaya, Vol. 1, ed. T.S.
Ko, 1897, Ill Inscriptions copied from stones collected by
King Bodawpaya, Vol. Il, ed. T.S. Ko, 1897, IV Inscriptions
collected in Upper Burma, Vol. 1, ed. T.S. Ko, 1900, V
Inscriptions collected in Upper Burma, Vol. II ed. T.S.Ko,
1903, VI Original inscriptions collected by King Bodawpaya
o ed. Charles Duroiselle after copy prepared by T.S.
Ko, 1913. Containing mere transcriptions in modern
Burmese characters and neglecting the distinction between
originals and copies, these volumes have been rightly con-
demned for their failure to satisfy the requirements of modern
scholarship. During the first decade of this century Blagden
Published the firet tentative reading of a Mon inscription
U.R.A.S. 1909). This is the famous text on the Mon (or
Talaing) face of the quadrilingua] epigraph of Myazedi,

Google
82 U. N. GHOSHAL

“the Rosetta stone of Talaing epigraphy.” In J.R.A.S.
1911 the same scholar compared the Pyu version of the
above record with the Pali, Burmese and Mon versions.
Afterwards he deciphered (Journal of the Burma Research
Society, 1917) some of the Pyu inscriptions on the funeral
urns discovered at Hmawza. Nevertheless it could justly be
said by a competent scholar as late as 1913 that epigraphy
in Burma was still to be founded (Charles Duroiselle, Preface
to his edition of the Original inscriptions collected by King
Bodawpaya, Amarapura, 1913). With the closing years of
the second decade of the present century began a period of
substantial progress. In the first volume (1919) of the newly
started Journal Epigraphia Birmanica, Blagden published his
improved reading of the Mon version of the Myazedi ins-
cription along with a glossary of Mon words and the text
and translation of the Pyu version of the same record.
A series of Mon: inscriptions (including the Mon versions of
the famous Kalyani-sima inscriptions of King Dhammacheti
of Pegu), was edited by the same scholar in the following
volumes (vols. I-IV) of the Epigraphia Birmanica. The
soul of this recent progress in Burmese archaeology was
Charles Duroiselle, who became the first editor of the
Journal of the Burma Research Society in 1911 and who
succeeded Taw Sein Ko as Archaeological Superintendent
in 1912. He published (Rangoon, 1921) A List of inscrip-
tions found in Burma, Part 1. The list of the inscriptions
arranged in the order of their dates with three Appendices
listing Mon, Pyu, Siamese and Tamil inscriptions. Three
Portfolios of Inscriptions of Burma (University of Burma
Oriental Series Publications) consisting of accurate facsimiles
of inscriptions from 1131 to 1237 A.D., those down to 1268
A.D. and those from 1268 to 1300 A.D., have since been pub-
lished by Pe Maung Tin and G. Luce (Oxford 1933 and
London 1939). The very valuable excavations of Duroiselle on
the site of Hmawza in 1926-27 resulted in the discovery of an
untouched relic-chamber of a Buddhist stipa of the 6th-7th
century A.D. containing “‘a veritable wonder-house of
archaeological treasures." The central object in the

Google .
PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN RESEARCH 83

chamber was a gilt silver stipa with Buddha figures in
repoussé and a mixed Pali-Pyu inscription. Among other
objects was a Ms. of 20 gold-leaves in Pyu characters of the
6th century containing extracts from the Pali canon, The
characters of the inscription and the Ms. (like those of the
gold-plate and the stone inscription at Hmawza discovered
by Taw Sein Ko) bear affinities to those of the Kannada-
Telugu and Kadamba inscriptions of Southern India at the
same period. Other discoveries made at the same site
consisted of terracotta votive tablets with figures of a
Buddha flanked by Avalokitesvara and Maitreya, a Bodhi-
sattva with four arms and so forth and with the Buddhist
creed inscribed in Pali or Sanskrit in Nagari characters of the
8th-9th centuries. Duroiselle’s discoveries at Hmawza in the
following year consisted of a gold-plate inscription in Pali in
the same South Indian characters, of a bronze Buddha
image with Sanskrit inscriptions in Gupta characters on the
pedestal, of a large stone image of the Buddha with a
mixed Sanskrit and Pyu inscription in Gupta characters of
the 7th-8th centuries [For details, see Ann. Rep. A.S.I.,
1926-7, 1927-28]. These discoveries have opened a new
chapter in the history of India’s old culture-contact with
Burma. They have definitely proved that in the sixth and
seventh centuries of the Christian era an Indian (or India-
nised) dynasty with names of kings ending in varman and
vikrama was rei at Prome, During the same period
Theravada (or ‘Southern") Buddhism was the predomi-
nant religion in the kingdom, and the Pali canon was
known in its most abstruse aspects. The art-influence was
derived both from the Northern Gupta tradition and the
Southern Pallava style. The colonists came both from

Northern and Southern India.

Next in importance to the archaeological discoveries at
Hmawza are those made by Duroiselle at Pagan, the
capital city of the Burmese kings, which during a space of
nearly two centuries (1057-1286) was adorned by a succes-
sion of royal builders with innumerable stdpas, shrines and
monasteries. On this memorable site Durciselle brought to

4

Google
84 U. N. GHOSHAL

light hundreds of stone sculptures and terracotta votive
tablets inscribed with the usual Buddhist creed in a variety
of languages (Sanskrit, Pali, Pyu, Talaing and Burmese).
Some of these inscribed tablets written in Sanskrit in Nagart
characters of the Ith century bear the name of the great
Burmese King Anawrata, the conqueror of Thaton, in the
Indian form Maharaja Sri Anuruddhadeva (Ann, Rep.
AS.L., 1915, 1926-27).

One of the important signs of the remarkable progress of
Burmese archaeology in recent times has been the steady
growth of museums, Not to speak of the Palace Museum
at Mandalay containing the relics of the last Burmese
dynasty, the museums at Hmawza and Pagan have been
greatly enriched with the finds of the recent explorations.

‘The dark corners of the religious history of the Irrawady
valley in the pre-Anawrata period have been illumined in
recent times by the progress of research. In the middle of
the second decade of this century because of the dearth of
authentic documents it could still be said (Duroiselle in Ann.
Rep. A.S.I., 1915-16) that the religious history of Burma
up to the eleventh century was practically a blank. A great.
step forward was taken when Duroiselle identified the
unique frescoes of a markedly erotic character from two
old temples near Pagan as representing the Ari of the
Burtnese chronicles, whom he identified as a Mahayanist
Buddhist sect deeply tinctured with Tantrism and deriving
ite origin from Bengal (See Duroiselle’s classical paper
‘The Ari of Burma and Tantric Buddhism in Ann.
Rep. AS.I., 1915-16), This definitely proved the preva-
lence of Tantrik Buddhism among the Burmese before the
absorption of Theravada Buddhism by King Anawrata. To
Duroiselle also belongs the credit of recognising traces of the
Sanskrit (Sarvastivadin) school in the Sanskrit records from
Prome (Ann. Rep. A.S.I., 1913-14). In the last decade of
this century an Indian scholar. Nihar-Ranjan Ray has contri-
buted a series of valuable studies on the religious history of
Burma. In his Brahmanical Gods in Burma (Calcutta 1932)
based on a critical study of the extant Brahmanical images

Google
PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN RESEARCH 85

and shrines in the country, he has brought together all the
known facts about the remains of Brahmanism in Burma
arranged in chronological order from the 7th to the I4th
centuries A.D. His next important work Sanskrit Buddhism
in Burma (Calcutta, 1935), based on an equally thorough
study of plastic remains and literary references, gives
a comprehensive account of the fortunes of the Sai
vadin as well as the Mahayana and allied schools of
Buddhism in the country from the earliest times.
Among his main conclusions may he mentioned the
fact that the Miilasarvastivadin canon was introduced into
old Prome probably from East India some time before the
seventh century A.D. Down to the eighth and ninth centuries
it flourished there side by side with the Theravada school
which had been introduced evidently from the Kannada-
Telugu country in the sixth century, In the eighth and ninth
centuries Mahayanism was introduced into Old Prome from
East India, In Pagan it was known before the tenth century,
having been probably introduced from Bengal at least in ite
Tantric form. Its most flourishing period coincided with
the Golden Age of the Hinayanist reformation at Pagan.
Owing to the enlightened tolerance of the Burmese kings
the two religions lived side by side, but Hinayaniem having
the State support ultimately triumphed over its rival.

‘We may next mention two other publications by the last-
named scholar, (Early Traces of Buddhism in Burma,
IGLS., VI, Jan. & July, 1939; Theravada Buddhism in
Burma, Ibid., VIII. Jan. 1941) forming the earlier chaptera
of a comprehensive History of Buddhism in Burma projected
by himself. In the firet paper the author has established
by an elaborate examination of the literary and archzolo-
gieal evidence that the famous tradition of Agoka's sending
(c. 250 B.C.) the mission of Sona and Uttara for the conver-
sion of Suvannabhimi has some claims to a historical basis,
that the equally famous tradition of Buddhaghoga’s infusing
a new life into the Buddhism of Lower Burma (c. 400-450
A.D.) has some probability in its favour, that the Pali cano-
nical texts evidently brought over by Indian colonists from

Google
86 U. N. GHOSHAL

the Kannada-Telugu country were studied in their doctrinal
and abstruse aspects in Old Prome (c. 400-450 A.D.) and
that Buddhism was in a very flourishing condition in that
capital city (c. 550-950 A.D.), that Brahmanical Hinduism
along with Buddhism was prevalent in Pegu, and lastly that
‘Theravada Buddhism was exceedingly flourishing in the
Talaing kingdom towards the middle of the eleventh cen-
tury. In the second paper a good account has been given
of the religious, artistic and literary activities of the Burmese
people during the Golden Age of the Pagan dynasty
(c. 1057-1286 A.D.). How ennobling was the Buddhist
influence on the minds of these alien rulers has been illus-
trated by the following quotation from an inscription of
King Kyanzittha, the builder of the Ananda temple :—
“With loving kindness......shall King Kvanzittha wipe away
the tears of those who are parted from their trusted friends
. his people shal] be unto him as a child to its mother's
bosom......he shall soften the hearts of those who intend
evil. With wisdom, which is even as the hand, shall King
Kyanzittha draw open the bar of the Gate of Heaven, which
is made or gold and wrought with gem:

The study of Burmese art, for which materials were
almost completely lacking as late as the middle of the
second decade of this century (Cf. Duroiselle in Ann. Rep.
A.S.1., 1913-14), has also shared in’ the general progress.
It is true that a comprehensive history of this art involving
the classification of types and schools and the analysis of
their affinities down even to the end of the Pagan period
has yet to be written. Nevertheless there has latterly been
‘a good deal of preliminary studies in this direction. In his
paper ‘Pictorial Representations of Jatakas in Burma’ (Ann.
Rep. A.S.I., 1912-13) Duroiselle gave a connected account
of the sculptures and paintings illustrative of the Jatakas in
Burmese temples from 1057 to 1820. Dealing with the style
of these works of art, he declared that while the main
influence came from Eastern India, the local artists in copy-
ing the Indian models created a Pagan school. In the same
context he stated that everything in the Jataka reliefs except

Google
PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN RESEARCH 87

the style of the houses was Indian. The stone sculp-
tures illustrative of Buddha's life from the corridor of
the famous Ananda temple at Pagan were noticed by
Duroiselle in another paper (Ann. Rep. A.S.I., 1913-14)
where he held them to be the work of Indian artists. In a
third paper, on the frescoes of Pagan (Ann. Rep, A.S.I.,
1921-22), he declared these paintings with some looseness
of expression to be the work of Bengali and Nepalese
artists of the Varendra school. The illustrious French
scholar G. Qcedés has recently suggested (Le Musée
National de Bangkok, Paris 1928, p. 31) that the type of
Buddha images of the early Pagan period in Burma and
the early Tai period in Siam was directly derived from the
Pala art of Bengal and Behar, a suggestion which has been
confirmed by later research (Le May, Buddhist Art in Siam
pp. 99f.). Quite recently Indian scholars have made
weighty contributions to the study of religious art in Burma.
Nibar-Ranjan Ray, in his papers on Burmese religious history
above-mentioned, has distinguished various Brahmanical
and Buddhist sculptures at Hmawza and Pagan as belong-
ing to the late Gupta, Pallava or Pala styles, He has also
Pointed out that not only the sfipas but also the rectangular
temples at Hmawza are indebted to the late Gupta and Pala
art traditions, In his paper ‘Paintings in Pagan’ (J.1.S.0.A.,
VI, 1938) the same scholar has distinguished four stages of
this art. At first the conception was mainly plastic, the
decorations, dress and ornaments, types, colour-scheme and
composition being imported from the East Indian tradition.
‘When the process of Burmanisation began to work, the
Plastic conception was overtaken by the linear, In the
third stage the linear conception superseded the plastic,
the colour scheme etc. remaining purely Indian. In the
fourth or Burmese stage the linear conception came to stay.
More recently Sarasi Kumar Saraswati (Temples of Pagan,
J.G.1S., IX, I, Jan. 1942) has shown that these temples divide
themselves into three classes having their prototype in certain
old shrines of Hmawza and that the Ananda temple, in
particular, while resembling the Paharpur shrine in exterior

Google ;
88 U. N. GHOSHAL

elevation, differs fundamentally in plan, conception and
internal arrangement.

By the first decade of the present century the inveati-
gation of the literary history of Burma had made substan-
tial progress, Important chronicles for which Burma is so
famous like the Gandhavarnsa and the Sasanavarnsa had
been published before the close of the last century. These
and other precious texts were utilised by Mabel Bade in her
standard monograph The Pali Literature of Burma (London
1909), where she traced the development of Pali literature
and Pali scholarship in Burma from the IIth to the 19h
centuric ‘Among the branches of study developed during
this period are those quite familiar to students of Sanskrit
literature viz. astronomy and astrology, law, medicine,
rhetoric and prosody, and above all, grammar.

‘The progress of scholarship in recent years has made
possible the publication of an up-to-date general history
of Burma superseding the earlier work of Sir Arthur Phayre.
This is the History of Burma from the earliest times to the
10th March 1824, the beginning of the English conquest by
G. E. Harvey (London, 1925). The author, while treating
the early history of Burma in a very summary fashion, has
sought to utilise all available materials including the highly
valuable indigenous chronicles which, as he says, are without
a parallel in the mainland of Indo-China.

SIAM

Siam, or as it is now called, Thailand, was ruled before
the complete establishment of Tai sovereignty in the
thirteenth century by peoples of diverse stocks, the Mons
in Central and Northern Siam, the Khmers in North-East
Siam and the Srivijaya kings in the Peninsula. In a country
80 diversified it was no wonder that there arose different
schools and etyles of art, but all of these were directly or
indirectly saturated with Indian influences.

The beginnings of the State organisation of archaeological
research go back in Siam only to the third decade of this
century, though the Vajirafiana Nationa] Library (so called

Google
PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN RESEARCH 8

after the name of the then reigning king before his accession)
had been established at Bangkok as far back as 1905. It
was in 1924 that King Rama VI founded the Archaeological
Service. His successor King Prajadhipok established at
Bangkok in 1926 the Royal Institute (Rajapandityasabha) of
Literature, Archaeology and Fine Arts. In the same year
he forttied the National Museum at Bangkok out of the
colleétions of King Mongut, King Chulalongkorn and Prince
Damrong Mahanubhava. Other museums were started
before or after this time at Lopburi, Ayudhya and other
places.

To no single scholar is Siamese art as well as archaelogy
more indebted than to the illustrious French savant
George Coedés. Appointed Librarian of the Vajitafiana
National Library in 1917 and thereafter called to the office
of Genera) Secretary of the newly founded Royal Institute
of Siam, he enriched almost every branch of Siamese anti-
quities by his illuminating researches extending over many
years. His preliminary studies of the documents bearing
on the Sukhodaya dynasty (Documents sur le Dynastic de
Sukhodaya, B.E.F.E.O., XVII, 1917) were followed by a
thoie intensive investigation of the beginnings of the dynasty
(Les origines de le Dynastie de Sukhodaya, J.A., 1920).
Of the greatest value as a source-book of the history of Siam
was his publication of the text and translation of the inscrip-
tions extending from the Indo-Mon Kingdom of Dvaravatt
down to the Tai kingdom of Sukhodaya (or Suk’ét’ai).
This work bearing the title Recueil des Inscrip-
tioris du Siam wes published in two parts, Part I (Bang-
kok 1924) dealing with the inscriptions (Pali and Thai),
of the Sukhodaya kingdom (13th-I6th centuries), and
Patt H (Bangkok 1929) dealing with the inscriptions (Pali
and Mon) of the Dvaravati kingdom (7th-8th centuries), the
inscriptions (Sansktit and Khmer) of the Srivijaya kingdom
(8th-I2th centuries), the inscriptions (Pali and Mon) of the
Haripufijaya kingdom (12th-13th’ centuries). It contained,
among other things, a masterly summary of the archaeological
evidence <elating to the early history of Siam. Of equally fun-

Google
9 U. N, GHOSHAL

damental importance was (cedés’s publication (with a French
tion and a learned Introduction) of two Pali chronicles
from the Mss. collection of the National Library of Bangkok
Documents sur U'Histoire Politique et Religieuse du Laos
Occidental, (B.E.F.E.O., XXV, 1925). These works are the
Jinakalamdlini (‘Garland of the times of the Buddha") of
the monk Ratnapajifia (dated about the beginning of
the 15th century) and the Chamadevivarnea (‘Chronicles of
Chama Devi) of the monk Bodhiraémi (written in 1516
A.D.) and they rank as first-rate authorities for the history
of Yonakarattha (Western or Siamese Laos) from the begin-
ning down to their own times. To the above-mentioned
work Coedés has added a number of valuable Appendices
including A list of chronicles and other documents relating
to the history of Simese Laos preserved in the National
Library at Bangkok, A List of inscriptions found in the two
provinces of Siamese Laos, the text and translation of the
Mon Inscriptions of Lopburi and Lampun and so forth.
The study of art and architecture in Siam has equally
benefited by the scholarly activities of Qoedés, In J.S.S.,
XXI, (1928) he identified certain bronze Buddha images
excavated from the ancient site of Pong Tuk in the previous
year as belonging to the Amaravati (2nd century) and Gupta
(6th century) styles, In his important work (in French) called
The archaeological collections of the National Museum at
Bangkok (Ars Asiatica, XII, 1928) containing 40 Plates illus-
trating the art of Siam, he distinguished four schools classified
under the heads ‘Art of Dvaravati’, “Art of Srivijaya’, ‘Art of
Lopburi, and the Tai (or Siamese) Art subdivided into the
schools of Xiensen, Sukhodaya, Utong and Ayudhya.
Explaining the characteristics of these schools he pointed
out that the art of Dvaravati (Central Siam) was based on
. Gupta models and was the intermediary through which
Indian art influenced the ‘primitive’ or ‘pre-Khmer’ art of
Cambodia. He also held that the school of Lopburi repre-
sented a provincial Khmer‘art, while the school of Xiensen
was derived from Pala art by way of Burma. In this con-
nection he did a distinct service by discarding the title

Google
PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN RESEARCH or

‘Greeco-Khmer’ applied by some scholars to the art of
Dvaravati, At a later date Coedés identified (Etudes d’
Orientalisme Linossier, pp. 159-164) certain sculptures from
the ancient city of Srideb as forming the link between
Gupta and early Khmer art.

While the main credit for investigating the art and
archaeology of Siam belongs to Coedés, other scholars have
made important contributions to their study during the
last twenty years. To the Siamese scholar-prince Damrong
we owe A History of Siam prior to the Ayudhya period,
which was translated into English in J.S.S. XIII, (Bangkok
1920). In this work new light was sought to be thrown upon
the history of the Early Tai kingdoms. Prince Damrong
also wrote in Siamese A History of Buddhist Stipas in Siam
(Bangkok 1926), while he published in the Jubilee volume of
the Siam Society (Bangkok 1930) a paper on the Evolution of
Siamese Art illustrated with forty Plates. About this time
A. Salmony produced his work The Sculpture of Siam
(London, 1925; French ed., Paris 1925) which, written from
an esthetic standpoint, has been rightly condemned (cf.
Finot and Goloubev's criticism in B.E.F.E.O., 1927) for its
grievous errors of history and chronology. In B.E.F.E.O..
XXXI (1931), J. Y. Claeys published an important paper (in
French) called The archaeology of Siam where he described
a large number of monuments with critical remarks on the
history and chronology, architecture and sculpture, of Siam.
The art of Siam has also been discussed by Pierre Dupont
in his paper The Art of Dvaravati and Khmer Art (R.A.A..
1935) where he points out that the standing Buddha images
of the Bayon period represent the survival of the Dvaravati
art of Siam and Laos. Coming to epigraphy, we may
mention the publication with translation and notes
by R. Halliday of a list of seven Mon inscriptions
of Siam (B.E.F.E.O, XXX, 1930). In this connec-
tion reference may be made to E. Seidenfaden’s paper (in
French) called Complement to the Inventory of the monu-
ments of Cambodia from the four provinces of East-Siam
(B.E.F.E.O, XXIII 1923) supplementing Lunet de Lajon-

— —

Google
9 U. N, GHOSHAL

quiére’s Descriptive Inventory of the monuments of Cam-
bodia (1902-12) to be described below.

Another scholar who has enriched the art and archaeo-
logy of Siam in recent times is Reginald Le May, for some
time Economic Adviser to the Siamese Government, In
his work The Coinage of Siam (Bangkok, 1932), while des-
cribing the coin-types of the Ayudhya and other dynasties,
he pointed out that the Tai were the first people in the Far
East to introduce a standardised silver currency. The ceramic
art of Siam which is indebted to the famous Sung pottery
of China, was studied by him in his paper ‘The Ceramic
wares of North-Central Siam (Burlington Magazine, London
1933). In his Buddhist Art in Stam (Cambridge, 1938), he has
published the firet comprehensive account of the rise and
development of sculpture and architecture in Siam from the
earliest times to the 16th century. Based chiefly on the re-
searches of (oedés to whom the author freely acknowledges
his indebtedness, this work distinguishes no lese than nine
different schools:—{I) Pure Indian, up to the 5th century,
(2) Mon-Indian (Gupta), 5th to 10th centuries, (3) Hindu-
Javanese, 7th to 12th centuries, (4) Khmer and Mon-Khmer
transition, 10th to 13th centuries, (5) Tai (Chiengsen), Ith
to 14th centuries, (6) Tai (Suk’ot’ai), 13th to 14th centuries,
(7) Khmer-Tai transition (U'kong), 13th to 14th centuries,
(8) Tai (Lopburi), 15th to 17th centuries, (9) Tai (Ayudhya),
14th to 17th centuries. To these has to be added a tenth,
viz. the school of Funan. The influences bearing on all
these schools, however, have been, directly or indirectly,
all Indian. Le May's views have been endorsed by Coedés
who points out (J.R.A.S., 1939) that the former has rightly
prolonged the Mon-Indian school to the eleventh century
and has emphasized the influence of the Pala art upon the
Chieng-sen school.

Among recent explorers of ancient sites in Siam we
may mention H, G. Quaritch Wales. As early as 1931 he
had published his work, Siamese State ceremonies, their
history and function, where he showed that these ceremonies
were a curious blend of Brahmanical and Buddhist elements

Google 4
PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN RESEARCH B

and might be traced back to India through literary sources.
As leader of the firet research expedition (1934) under the
auspices of the newly started Greater India Research Com-
mittee in London, he explored, with the aid of a generous
grant of H. H. the Gaekwar of Baroda, the Siamese portion of
the Malay Peninsula, His discoveries including those of Brah-
manical images at Takuapa (Ptolemy's Takkola) on the west
coast and at Caiya on the coast of the Bay of Bandon in the
east led him to confirm R. C. Majumdar's view relating to
location of seat of the Sailendra dynasty in Malay. What
is more, he held Caiya to be the original capital of this
dynasty. He further suggested as against Parmentier and
Bosch, that the region around the Bay of Bandon deriving
its original inspiration from Indian influences across
Takuapa was the cradle of the Far Eastern civilisation
(See H. G. Quaritch Wales ‘A newly explored route of An-
cient Indian cultural expansion,’ I.A.L., 1X, 1935). In his
second expedition (1935-36) the same intrepid explorer visited
the ancient site of Pong Tuk excavated by the Archaeological
Department of Siam in 1927, and he was rewarded with
the discovery of a ruined brick stipa and vihara of the
Dvaravati period. He explored the ancient city of Srideb
in Southern Siam which had been discovered by Prince
Damrong in 1905 and had produced a few sculptures iden-
tified by Qoedés as belonging to the Gupta school. Quaritch
Wales'discoveries at this site consisted of the plan of the
deserted city recalling that of Ancient Indian towns, of a
ruined brick tower on a pyramidical base resembling the
Gupta brick temple at Bhitargaon in the Cawnpore district,
of Vaignava sculptures recalling the figures on the Gupta
temple at Bhumara and of stone inscriptions in South
Indian characters of the early sixth century (See H. G.
Quaritch Wales, The Exploration of Sri Deva, A.B.I.A.,
Vol. X.).

A fresh field for exploration of Siamese sites has been
opehed by the enterprise of the French School of the Far
East in our own times. A convention signed with the
Siamese Government in 1937 has given the School the right

Google
4 U. N, GHOSHAL

of archaeological exploration in the country for a minimum
period of five years. The first expedition led by Pierre
Dupont in 1939 succeeded in excavating on an ancient site
near Nakon Pathom the remains of a stipa recalling the
most archaic models of South India and Ceylon along with
other antiquities belonging to the art of Dvaravati (7th-8th
centuries), At Nakon Pathom were also discovered votive
tablets with the Buddhist creed in Pallava characters analo-
gous to those of the oldest Indo-Chinese inscriptions of the
Sth century A.D. (See B.E.F.E.O., XXXIX 1939 for a full
account illustrated with plans).

In the field of general history we have to mention the
important work of W.A.R. Wood, A History of Siam from
the earliest times to the year A.D. 1781 (London, 1926).
While it has the merit of giving the first connected account of
the country based on first-hand sources, it unfortunately
fails to do juistice to the period covered by the Hinduised
pre-Tai states of Siam. It brings down the history of Siam
to the date of accession of Rama I, the founder of the
present dynasty.

From a general review of the above accounts it will
appear that an enormous influence was exercised by Indian
civilisation upon Siam (or Thailand) during the past centuries.
Not to speak of the bronze Buddha images directly imported
from Amaravati by Indian immigrants probably in the 3rd
century, A.D., the Mons who were the dominant people
in Central Siam (c. 500-1000 A.D.) with Dvaravati as their
centre were devout Buddhists of the Hinayana school. The
Buddha images of this period have been shown to bear
close affinities to those of Sarnath and the Ajanta caves.
The Mons have left behind inscriptions not only in their
own language, but also in Sanskrit and Pali, At a later
period North Siam with Haripufijaya (Lampun) as its centre
was colonised by the Mons or Mon-speaking races. These
colonists also were fervent Buddhists and they covered their
cities with begutiful temples and stipas. In Siamese Malay
under the rule of the Hinduised Srivijaya and Sailendra
dynasties Caiya and Nagara Srithammarat (Ligor) on the east

Google
PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN RESEARCH 5

coast and Takuapa on the west coast were imporiant cen-
tres of Indian culture. On these sites have been dis-
covered Mahayana Buddhist bronzes derived from Pala art
and Brahmanica] stone sculptures apparently based on
Pallava art. It seems that there was at this period a fresh
wave of immigration from East India. Between the 3rd
and 6th centuries Central Siam (with its centre at Lopburi)
as well as North-East Siam was included in the kingdom of
Funan. The kingdom of Cambodia extended its sovereignty
over the same region between the 10th and the 13th cen-
turies. During this long period Brahmanism as well as
Buddhism was in high favour. The Gupta art (according
to Coedés) or the Pallava, Chalukya and Pandya art (accord-
ing to Le May) furnished the model for the Funan images.
Khmer sculpture forms a distinctive type which is found in
its pure form in the North-East and is mingled with Mon
elements in Central Siam. From the 13th century onwards
Siam has been ruled by the Tai, a Mongoloid people from
the Chinese province of Yunnan. The various Tai dynas-
ties which were in power with their capitals at Chiengmai,
Chiengsen, U'kong, Ayudhya and Bangkok were from time
to time in contact with the great Empire of China. Never-
theless the civilisation of the Tai from first to last is almost
completely dominated by Indian and allied cultures. The
oldest Tai (Chiengsen) school of Siam has been proved to
derive its new type of Buddha image from Pala art through
the intermediary of Pagan. With the Suk’ot'ai school
began a new Buddha type based largely on Chiengsen, but
also partaking for the first time of Sinhalese influence.
From this time Sinhalese Buddhism began to exercise con-
siderable influence upon the religion and art of Siam.
Nevertheless we find that at the beginning of the Ayudhya
period in the 16th century there was erected a considerable
number of Brahmanical images testifying to the continua-
tion of the Indian influence. [For references, see Reginald
Le May, Buddhist Art in Siam, pp. 149-150].

Google -
6 U. N. GHOSHAL

CAMBODIA

Cambodia, the land of the Khmers (kinsmen by lan-
guage if not by race of the Mons of Burma and the Khasis
and Mundas of North India), now forms a protectorate of
French Indo-China. For nearly 900 years (c. 550-
1450 A.D.) it was ruled by a succession of Hindu
(or Hinduised) dynasties under whom it not only became
‘one of the leading powers of South-Eastern Asia, but also
developed an advanced civilisation testified to by ite legacy
of magnificent works of art and of Sanskrit inscriptions of
a high quality. And yet Kambujadeéa, to give it its Ancient
Sanskrit name, was not the oldest Indian colony in that
part of the country. It was itself established on the ruins
of another Indian kingdom known to the Chinese writers as
Funan. Traditionally said to have been founded (about the
Ist century A.D.) by the Brahman Kaundinya and completely
Indianised by another person of the same name c. 400 A.D.,
this ancient kingdom witnessed a full blossoming of Hindu
culture before its disappearance about the end of the sixth
century.

By the middle of the second decade of the present
century the foundations of Cambodian studies had been
well and firmly laid by a band of French scholars. The
decipherment of the first Sanskrit inscriptions from Cam-
bodia in 1879 by the renowned Dutch scholar Hendrik Kern,
the founder of Cambodian epigraphy, was followed by the
publication of the text and translation of a large number of
similar inscriptions by Auguste Barth and Abel Bergaigne.
Their work called Inscriptions Sanskrites du Cambodge et du
Champa was published in volume XX, Part I of the Notices
and Extracts of the MSS. of the Bibliothéque Nationale and
other Libraries (Fasc. 1, Paris 1885, Fasc. 2, Paris 1893).
The foundation of the renowned French School of the Far
East (at first called by the modest name of Archaeological
Mission of Indo-China) in 1898 was the signal for a great out-
burst of scholarly activities. To the famous Bulletin of this
School (started in 1901) its members have contributed numer-
ous papers which have illuminated the dark corners of the art,

Google
PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN RESEARCH 7

archaeology and general history not only of French Indo-
China, but also of adjoining lands. The activities of this
School were directed at first towards a systematic survey of
antiquities. In 1901 Lunet de Lajonquiére produced his Arch-
aeological Atlas of Indo-China (in French) tracing the monu-
ments of Champa and Cambodia. Afterwards he published his
great Descriptive Inventory of the Monuments of Cambodia
{in French) forming the First Part of his projected Archaeo-
logical Inventory of Indo-China. This work consisted of three
volumes (Paris, 1902, 1907, 1912) containing along with useful
general introductions short notices of all monuments and
inscriptions in the different provinces of Cambodia, Siam
and Cochin-China. From 1907 when Siam ceded to France
the provinces of Battambang and Siemrap, the School
began to devote its energies to the exploration and conser-
vation of the world-famed Angkor group of monuments in-
cluded in the cession. Meanwhile E, Aymonier published
his comprehensive work Le Cambodge in three volumes
(Paris, 1900-1904). The volumes, dealing successively
with the present kingdom of Cambodia, the Siamese
provinces and the Angkor group, contained a detailed
description of the land and the people, the laws
and jnstitutions, the monuments and inscriptions and last
but not the least, the geographical regions. With this may
be mentioned the great Bibliography of the Indo-Chinese
Peninsula (Bibliotheca Indo-Sinica) of H. Cordier which
was published by the French School of the Far East in four
Volumes (1912, 1913, 1914), Volume 1 dealing with Burma,
Assam, Siam and Laos, Volume II with the Malay Penin-
sula, Volumes Il] & IV with French Indo-China. [The
Index of the whole work from the pen of M.A. Roland-
Cabaton had to wait for publication till 1932]. Work of
a different kind was done by Pelliot who pushed back the
history of Hindu civilisation in French Indo-China by re-
covering from the invaluable Chinese literary references
the forgotten record of the Kingdom of Funan (B.E.F.E.0.
IH, 1903). In B.E.F.E.O. XVI Parmentier published a
series of six mape illustrating the sites of the stone

Google
8 U. N, GHOSHAL

inscriptions and the gradual expansion of the Khmer
domination.

The remarkable advance that has been achieved in
recent years in our knowledge of Cambodian history and
antiquities is almost entirely due to the activities of the
French School, and above all, of its illustrious Directors
Louis Finot and George Qcedés and architech Henri Par-
mentier. To begin with archaeology, there appeared
under the auspices of this School a volume (in French)
called General Lists of inscriptions and monuments of
Champa and Cambodia, 2nd ed., 1923. The first part dealing
with inscriptions was the work of Qoedés and the second
describing the monuments was written by Parmentier. In
B.E.F.E.O., XXV (1925), XXVIII (1928), and XXIX (1929)
Finot published a number of important inscriptions (espe-
cially from Angkor) discovered since 1923. The school took
the lead in carrying into effect a scheme of Corpus of Cam-
bodian inscriptions first projected by Georges Maspero.
Between 1926 and 1928 there appeared four volumes,
Vols. I-III, Paris, 1926-27, Vol. IV Paris 1928, of Inscriptions
of Cambodia containing the facsimiles of inscriptions
not comprised in the work of Barth and Bergaigne or
else occurring there without facsimiles. A fifth volume
of the usual facsimiles of Sanskrit inscriptions was published
by Finot in 1931. The sixth and last volume of the Corpus
containing 44 Plates of new inscriptions discovered since
1929 was produced by Ccedés in 1937. To this last the
author added the text and translation of the inscriptions
concerned, under the title Inscriptions du Cambodge, vol. |
(Hanoi, 1937). Meanwhile Coedés had deciphered (B.
E.O., XXXI, 1931) two inscriptions of Funan, one mention-
ing the installation of the foot-prints of God Vignu by King
Gunavarman (first half of fifth century) and the other re-
ferring to Kings Jayavarman and Rudravarman (first half-
of sixth century), The same scholar has since identified
U.G.LS., IV, 2 July 1937) a newly discovered epigraph
as referring to this Jayavarman who reigned at the end of the
5th century. The inscription which begins with invocation

Google
PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN RESEARCH 9

to Lord Vignu records the foundation of a hermitage by Jaya-
varman’s principal Queen called Kulaprabhavati.

Coming to monuments and works of art, it could be a
matter of reproach as late as 1921 that while dispropor-
tionate attention had been given to the epigraphy and phi-
lology of Cambodia, its art and archaeology had never been
methodically studied. [Cf. Groslier, Arts et Archéologie
Khmers, | (1921-22), Fasc, I, Introduction, pp. 7ff.]. During
the last twenty years, however, the School has pursued a
ceaseless and most successful campaign of archaeological
exploration and research. To take a few examples, we
may begin by referring to Henri Marchal’s discovery
at Roluoh (identified by Coedés with Hariharalaya, a capi-
tal of Jayavarman Il), of a temple belonging to the end of
the ninth century. Other excavations have recently been
carried out at Phnom Kulen, probably identical with Mahen-
draparvata, another capital of Jayavarman Il (latter half of
8th century—854 A.D.). These discoveries have proved
(Philippe Stern, La transition de l'art preangkoréen & l'art
angkoréen et Jayavarman II in Etudes d’ Orientalisme
Linossier, pp. 507-524) the architectural style of Jayavarman II
to be intermediary between the ‘primitive’ and the ‘classi-
cal’ Khmer art. In the Angkor group of monuments them-
selves Qoedés has recently discovered a pre-Angkor monu-
ment, Remains of three brick towers having been brought to
light by Marchal in 1930, (oedés was able to prove the identity
of the central tower with the sanctuary of Kufiévara of the
reign of Jayavarman II mentioned in the inscriptions. At
Bantay Srei (Iévarapura), 12 miles north-east of Angkor, was
discovered in 1914 a Sivite temple which has been proved
(Coedés, B.E.F.E.O. 1929) to have wholly belonged to the
reign of Jayavarman V (0th century). The temple, which
consisted of three sanctuaries and two libraries adored
with exquisite reliefs representing Saiva and Vaignava mytho-
logy, has formed the subject of a magnificent monograph
called Le Temple ’d’Iévarapura (Bantay Srei), Paris, 1926.
In this volume which forms the first of the series of Memoirs
of the French School of the Far East the monuments have

6

Google
too U. N. GHOSHAL

been described by Parmentier, the images by Goloubev, the
inscriptions and general history by Finot.

By far the most important and fruitful of these explora-
tions and researches have centred around the wonderful
group of monuments at Angkor which was the capital of
the Cambodian kingdom for more than five centuries. To
the assiduous care of Henri Marchal the conservator of
the group of Angkor monuments since 1916 is due a good
deal of valuable work in the way of exploration, conserva-
tion and popularisation of these monuments. The first
complete photographic inventory of the great monument
of Angkor Vat was published as the second Memoir of the
French School of the Far-East in a series of magnificent
volumes (in French) called The Temple of Angkor Vat.
Part I of this monumental work bearing the title The Archi-
tecture of the Monument (2 Vols., Paris & Brussels, 1929)
was illustrated with 73+78 Plates and 2 Plans with a
Preface by, Finot tracing the history of the temple from its
foundation to its restoration under French auspices in recent
times, Part II called The Omamental Sculpture of the
Temple (2 Vols., Paris & Brussels, 1930) was brought out
with 436 Plates and 2 Plans with an Introduction by Goloubev.
Part Ill. called The Gallery of bas-reliefs (3 Vols., Paris
1932) was illustrated with 64+146+112 Plates and
4+5+3 Plans with a Preface by Coedés. Among the sub-
jects of these world-famed bas-reliefs are legends of Vignu
and his two incarnations of Rama and Kyena, the Hindu
Heavens and Hells and the like. Altogether these seven
volumes form a worthy record of the imperishable temple
which has been rightly reckoned among the greatest monu-
ments of the world because of the amplitude of its architecture
and the richness of its sculpture. Built as a Vignuite temple
between the years 1115 and 1180 A.D. by Siryavarman ‘II
and his nephew and successor Dharanindravarman Il,
Angkor Vat underwent strange vicissitudes of fortune, for
it was appropriated by Jayavarman VII (1181-1201) to the
cult of Mahayana Buddhism and was afterwards annexed to
Hinayana Buddhism. Passing to the famous city of Angkor

Google :
PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN RESEARCH 101

Thom (north of Angkor Vat) with its well-known group of
moruments like the Bayon and the Baphuon, we may first”
mention that the Baphuon has been recently identified by
Coedés (B. O., XXX) with Svarnadri which the inscrip-
tions record to have been built by Udayadityavarman II in
the second half of the eleventh century. Of fundamental
importance is the discovery due to the recent researches of
Gcedés and Goloubev that the present city of Angkor Thom
with its group of monuments was not built by Yasovarman I
at the close of the ninth century as was formerly supposed,
nor by Siryavarman I (1002-1049) as was later suggested by
Philippe Stern (Le Bayon d’ Angkor et I'evolution de l'art
Khmer, Paris 1927), but was the work of Jayavarman VII at
the close of the twelfth century A.D. The excavations car-
ried out during 1931-32 and 1933-34 under the guidance of
Goloubev supplemented by aerial surveys of the site have
¢ revealed the plan of the original city of Yasovarman I,
which was a rectangle like its successor but was larger in
size. At the exact centre of the rectangle representing the
older city stands the Sivite temple of Phnom Bakheng which
Goloubev has shown to be identical with the Central Mount
mentioned in Yagovarman I's inscriptions to have been
built by that monarch for housing the tutelary deity of the
realm. (See Qoedés, B.E.F.E.O., XXVIII, Goloubev,
B.E.F.E.O., XXXIII; Ibid., XXXIV, J.A., OCXXVI, 1935).
So far as the Bayon (formerly identified with the Central
Mount is concerned), the excavations carried out in 1933-34
in the pit of the central tower revealed fragments of a stone
statue which have since been restored to form a large-sized
Buddha image seated on a pedestal beneath the canopy of a
polycephalous Naga. This statue, which has been reckoned
among the finest sculptures of Cambodia found so far, has
been identified by Coedés as the image of Jayavarman VII
deified as Buddha. To the same scholar is due the sug-
gestion that the large number of four-faced stone towers for
which the Bayon is so famous represent colossal portraits of
the great Emperor in the guise of AvalokiteSvara, the All-
merciful deity of the Mahdyanist pantheon. Quite recently

Google
102 U. N. GHOSHAL

Coedés has suggested in the light of fresh excavations that
the central block of the Bayon was built by Jayavarman VII
as a central temple of his restored capital with his own
statue in the form of a Buddha.

The important discoveries connected with Angkor Thom
and its great monument of the Bayon have resulted in a com-
plete reconstruction of the chronology of Khmer art. The
new chronology may be stated as follows: (1) pre-Angkor
atyle, 6th-9th centuries; (2) style of Lolei and Koh Ker, 10th
century; (3) styles of Bantay Srei, Baphuon, Angkor Vat,
Ith-12th centuries; (4) style of Bayon, 12th-13th centuries.

‘We have described the remarkable progress that the
French School has achieved in the way of archaeological
exploration and research, This work has been accompanied
by that of conservation of the monuments concemed. A
new era was opened in this line by the journey of Marchal to
Indonesia in 1930 with the object of studying the Dutch
methods of reconstruction (Anastylose) which had been 80
successfully applied to Chandi Kalasan and other Javanese
monuments, The happy results of Marchal’s expedition were
seen in hie reconstruction on similar lines of the southern
sanctuary of the temple at Bantay Srei belonging to the 10th
century (For a popular account of this reconstruction, see
TAL., vii, 1933).

The growth of Museums has kept pace with the march of
archaeological exploration and research sketched above.
Not to speak of the fine collections at the Louis Finot
Museum at Hanoi, the Henri Parmentier Museum at Tourane,
the Blanchard de la Brosse Museum at Saigon (created as late
as 1929), we may mention the Albert Sarraut Museum at
Phnom Penh (founded in 1919) which has been described as
‘the National Museum of Khmer art from the earliest to
the most recent times." The important collections of
these Museums have been made available for study
and research by the publication of adequate cata-
logues enriched with Introductions describing classi-
fications of styles. To confine ourselves to those deal-
ing with Cambodian antiquities, we may mention the cata-

Google
PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN RESEARCH = 103

logues of the Phnom Penh Museum by Goloubev (Ars Asia-
tica, XVI, 1931) and of the Hanoi Museum by Marchal
(Hanoi 1939). Reference may also be made to the catalogue
of Indo-Chinese collections at the Musée Guimet (Paris 1934)
by P. Dupont and others.

Turning to the critical studies of Cambodian art and
archaeology, we have to record continuous progress during
the last twenty years. A great impetus wae given to these
studies by the appearance of the valuable Review Arts et
Archéologie Khmers under the able editorship of George
Groslier, The successive numbers of this Journal for the
years 1921-24 contain, along with fine illustrations of the
monuments and their sculptures, weighty contrib 8 on
such topics as the temples of Ta Prohm and Prah Vihear,
the Rama legend on the temple of Angkor Vat, the bronzes
and ceramics of Ancient Cambodia and the evolution of
Cambodian art. In his work La Sculpture Khmére ancienne
(Paris 1925), Groslier propounded a new theory of the origin
and evolution of Khmer art which, however, has failed to
command acceptance. According to his view, Kambuja art
began in the Ist-7th centuries A.D. and its remnants are
monuments of purely Indian character. Cambodian art
Properly so-called, which has no connection with the art of
the first period, began only in the 8th-9th centuries A.D.
The first adequate study of Khmer bronzes with reference
to their date and origin, their iconography and comparison
with Siamese, Javanese and Indian bronzes, was given by
Qcedés in his finely illustrated work Bronzes Khmers (Ars
Asiatica, Vol. V, 1923). The specimens were selected from
public and private collections at Bangkok as well as from the
collections at the royal palace at Phnom Penh and the
museums of Cambodia and the French School at Hanoi. In
hie German work called Old-Javanese Bronzes from the
Ethnographic Collection of the Natural History Museum at
Vienna (Wien, 1925), Heine-Geldern described the character
and quality of the Javanese bronzes and their relation to
the Indian and Wayang types. A\ brief account of Cambo-
dian architecture and sculpture was given by A. K. Coomara-

Google
104 U. N. GHOSHAL

ewamy in his well-known work History of Indian and Indo-
nesian Art (London, 1927), By far the most important
works on Khmer art that have appeared in recent times
are those of Parmentier [L’art Khmer primitif, 2 vole.,
Paris 1927; Complément a l’Art Khmer primitif, B-E.F.E.O.,
1936; L’art Khmer classique: Monuments du Quadrant
Nord-Est; 2 Vols, Vol. 1 Text, Vol, II Plates (architectural
drawings), Paris, 1929]. In these works we get a masterly
and well-illustrated account of all the known Khmer
monuments together with general characteristics of their
style and valuable discussions on the relations between
Khmer art and the related arts of Champa, Java and India.
In his article The History of Khmer Architecture (Eastem
Art, Ill, 1931), Parmentier gave a detailed analysis of the
imported Indian, architecture of Funan, of the architecture,
sculpture and minor arts of the Early Khmer period and of
the architecture of the classical period. In the same context
he distinguished three chronological divisions of Khmer
architecture, viz, Early Khmer (6th-8th centuries), Classical
(9th-15th centuries) with five subdivisions, and Modem (from
the 15th century onwards). Intensive studies in the evolu-
tion of the Khmer pilaster and pediment as well as of the
makara arch have been recently carried out by Mme.
Gilberte de Coral Rémusat (Annales d’Extréme-Orient,
Paris 1935; Revue des Arts Asiatiques, ix. 1935; B.E.F.E.O.,
1936). A type of temple called nandika said to have been
built by Indravarman I (9th century) in one of his recently dis-
covered inscriptions has been identified and described in the
light of references in the Indian éilpasastras by U. N. Ghoshal
U.G.LS., vii. No. 2, July 1940).

A fundamental question discussed by Parmentier in recent
times in connection with his studies on Khmer art is its rela-
tion to Indian art. In a paper on The common origin of
Hindu architecture in India and the Far East contributed ori-
ginally in French to the Etudes Asiatiques (Ibid., Il Paris,
1925) and afterwards translated into English in the Rapam,
(Calcutta 1929), Parmentier concluded from an exhaustive
analysis that the origin of all forms of Indian architecture is to

Google
PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN RESEARCH 105,

be found in the lost model of the ancient Buddhist Sangha-
rama of wooden construction, a type, which spreading out-
wards with the progress of Buddhism, was developed inde-
pendently in each country according to its local conditions.
This conclusion was re-asserted by the author in his later
works (Cf. L’art Khmer primitif, Vol. I, p. 349). In her paper
on the common origin of the lintels of Pallava India and the
pre-Angkorian Khmer lintels (R.A.A., viii, 1934), Mme, G. de
Coral Rémusat has been driven to the same conclusion by an
exhaustive comparison of Khmer and Pallava lintels, On the
other hand, Reginald Le May (Buddhist Art in Siam, pp. 63-66)
has recently drawn pointed attention to the close affinity
between the early Khmer architecture and that of the early
mediaeval temples of Kharod and Sirpur in the Central
Provinces of India. Ccedés has similarly recalled (J.R.A.S.,
1939) the astonishing parallelism between the Bhitargaon
temples of the Early Gupta period and certain temple-
towers of the pre-Angkor period.

Another important question discussed in recent tims
which is of great interest for the student of Indian culture is
the symbolism of the Cambodian monuments. Referring to
the Angkor group, Przyluski has suggested that the square
design and the ‘central temple characteristic of such monu-
ments is the architectural representation of the universe acc-
ording to Indian and Indo-Chinese ideas of town-planning.
Regarding the other characteristice of these monuments
P. Mus has held that the giants’ bridges at Angkor, gene-
rally’ interpreted as illustrating the churning of the ocean, in
reality stand for the rainbow which according to Indian
traditions is a link betweeen the world of man and the
world of gods which is materialised on earth by the royal
city, while the four-faced stone towers for which the Bayon
is 80 famous are the four-faced images of the God Avalo-
Kiteévara. According to the same scholar the Bayon is
both a portrait of its bulider Jayavarman VII and a literal
realization in stone of the Saddharma-pundarika, “‘the Bible
of Sanskrit Buddhism’’. The symbolism of Angkor Vat has

been the subject of some remarkable controversy in recent

Google
106 U. N. GHOSHAL

times, While Przyluski (Festschrift Winternitz, pp. 326-332;
J.LS.0.A., V, pp. 131-44) held that it was a funerary monu-
ment of its builder Jayavarman VII, Coedés (B.E.F.E.O.,
XXXIII) has declared that it was neither a temple nor a
tomb but a funerary temple, thus denying its unique character
and bringing it into line with the general body of the Khmer
monuments.

Coming to the general history of Cambodia and its civi-
lisation, we have to mention the work of E. Aymonier
(Histoire de l’ancien Cambodge) bringing up-to-date his
comprehensive volumes (Le Cambodge) already mentioned.
An ambitious work illustrating Cambodian life and culture
from the first century of the Christian era onwards in the
light of the extant monuments and other antiquities was pub-
lished by E. Groslier (Recherches sur les Cambodgiens,
Paris 1921). It consists of two parts, Part I dealing with
writing, habitations, commerce, dress and ornaments and the
like, while Part II describes the monuments, with their
sculptures. To an Indian scholar, Bijan Raj Chatterjee, we
owe a popular monograph (Indian Cultural Influences in
Cambodia, Calcutta 1928) based on the researches of
French scholars, It traces the political history of Cambodia
from the earliest times and concludes with interesting notices
of Indian influences upon its civilisation. A work of a
different kind is the Bibliographie de I'Indochine Frangaise
(1913-26), Hanoi 1929, and Ibid, (1927-29), Hanoi, 1932 form-
ing the Supplement to the Bibliotheca Sinica of Henri
Cordier already mentioned.

In the above pages we have recorded the achievements
of the French School in the way of recovery of the lost cul-
ture of Cambodia. The School has also sought to introduce
something like a cultural renaissance in the lands under its
jurisdiction. To its stimulus and continued support we owe
the foundation and maintenance not only of the Buddhist
Institute at Phnom Penh, but also of the Royal Libraries
of Cambodia and Laos at their present capitals Phnom
Penh and Luang Prabang. Most recently has been founded
under its auspices the Pali school at Phnom Penh, which

Google
PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN RESEARCH 107

by its publication of a series of canonical texts, has led to a
renaissance of Pali students among the people.

A general survey of pre-Khmer and Khmer culture such
as we obtain from the above records reveals the immense
hold exercised by Indian civilisation upon it during the whole
course of its history. In the oldest times Funan with its
capital at Vyadhapura had its Indian dynasty tracing des-
cent from the Brahman Kaundinya and including Gunavarman
(a patron of Vaignavism), Jayavarman and Rudravarman
(probably a Buddhist), Saivaism (including the worship of
a perpetual liga) was the predominant religion. The
Kambuja kings of the late 6th and the 7th centuries, who
delivered Cambodia from the yoke of Funan claimed des-
cent from the Rigi Kambu. How deeply rooted was the
Hindu influence at this time will appear from the fact that
the Brahman Vidyaviéega, a high official of King Kanavar-
man is credited with a sound knowledge of Sankhys
Vaiéesika, Nyaya and Buddhism. Jayavarman II who uni-
fied the country under his rule in the early part of the
ninth century introduced a Tantrik form of Saivaism cen-
tering around a liga (Jagat ta Raja) which became the tute-
lary deity of the kingdom, Yagovarman I (889-910 A.D.),
the builder of the first city of Angkor including the Sivite
temple of Phnom Bakheng, was the author of a number of
Sanskrit inscriptions written in the native Cambodian
alphabet of South Indian origin and in a North Indian script
as well as of other Sanskrit inscriptions written in the same
North Indian script which indicate an extensive knowledge of
Sanskrit literature. Siryavarman II (1112-1152 A.D.), built the
wonderful Vignuite temple at Angkor Vat enshrining probably
his own image in the guise of God Vignu, Jayavarmen VII,
the last of the Grand Monarchs of Cambodia, has now been
ehown to have built the present city of Angkor Thom with
ite wonderful group of monuments including the Bayon.
Throughout this period Sanskrit literature in all its branches,
including above all grammar and kaya, was studied assi-
duously, as is proved by the evidence of the inscriptions.
Brahmanism including specially the worship of Siva was the

7

Google
108 U. N. GHOSHAL

dominant religion, The Mahabharata, the Ramayana (of
which there was a version in Cambodia) and the Harivarnia
furnished the themes of numerous bas-reliefs of the Cambo-
dian temples. Among the most frequently illustrated scenes
are the churning of the ocean, the war between the Kauravas
and the Pandavas, Krena holding aloft the mountain Govar-
dhana, Vignu reposing in slumber upon the serpent Ananta
with Brahma seated on a lotus springing froin his navel,

and so forth.

CHAMPA.

The country of Champa, corresponding to the Annam
province of French Indo-China without its northern districts,
was inhabited from ancient times by the Chams, a people
of Malay-Polynesian stock. Ruled by Hindu dynasties for
nearly twelve centuries from the second or third century
onwards, it became a great centre of Sanskrit culture testified
to at present by its numbers of Sanskrit inscriptions.
During this time the chief cities (Champapuri, Indrapura,
Vijaya, etc.,) of Champadeéa (as it was called in the inscrip-
tions), were adorned with fine monuments dedicated to
Brahmanism as well as Buddhism. And yet Champa
could not vie with Cambodia or Java in the greatness of its
monuments, Exposed to the attacks of its formidable
adversaries (specially the Annamites in the north and the
Cambodians in the west and south) who ravaged their
country more than once, the people lived an agitated and
precarious life allowing little leisure for development of the
arts of peace. The brick constructions of the shrines have
not helped to preserve them to our own times.

It is characteristic of the difference between Champa and
Cambodia that while the great advance in our knowledge
of Cambodian art, archaeology and general history has
taken place only during the last twenty years, the study of
Champa antiquities was all but completed by the middle
‘of the second decade of this century. To begin with
archaeology, we have referred above to the publication of the
text and translation of the Sanskrit inscriptions of Cambodia

Google
PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN RESEARCH _ 109

and Champa by Barth and Bergaigne in 1885 and 1893.
An important collection of inscriptions in Champa was
edited by Aymonier in J.4., 1891. After the foundation of
the French School of the Far East, a large number of new
inscriptions of Champa was edited in its famous Bulletin
by Finot (see specially Ibid., I-IV.) and by Huber (Ibid., IX,
XI & XIV). Valuable lists of inscriptions from Champa were
published by Coedés in the same Journal (Vol. VIII & Vol.
XV). Inthe early years of this century Parmentier carried
oub a series of important excavations on the sites of the
Buddhist monastery at Dong Duong (Indrapura) and the
Brahmanical shrines at Myson and Po-Nagar. In 1909 the
same scholar published the first volume of his great work
on the Cham monuments (Inventaire descriptif des monu-
ments Cams de I'Annam) bearing the subtitle of ‘Descrip-
tion of the monumenjs’. It contains an exhaustive account
of all known Cham monuments within and outside the
country with valuable preliminary notices of their geographi-
gal environment and general characteristics of their style.
Meanwhile the valuable Chinese texts bearing on the history
of Champa were brought to light by Pelliot, Maspero and
Aurousseau (B.E.F.E.O., IV. & XIV). The scattered referenc-
es in the Chinese and Annamite records and the evidence of
Cham and Cambodian inscriptions were pieced together by
Maspero in his important monograph called The Kingdom
of Champa (Le Royaume du Champa, 1914) tracing the
history of this kingdom from the earliest times to the final
conquest of the greater part of the country by the Annar
mites in 1471 A.D.

The wark that has been done in the investigation of the
ancient Cham history and culture during the last twenty-five
years has been mostly of a supplementary character. In
1918 Parmentier completed his masterly survey of Cham
monuments by publishing the second volume of his great
Descriptive Inventory bearing the sub-title of A Study of
Cham art, Besides giving an elaborate account of the
details of Cham architecture and sculpture, it described the
civilisation and state of religion revealed by the monuments,

Google
110 U. N. GHOSHAL

the genius of Cham art, its origin and successive periods, its
aesthetics and so forth. The same scholar afterwards pub-
lished (in French) his Descriptive Catalogue of Cham sculp-
tures in the Tourane Museum (Ars Asiatica, 1922). In 1923
Qcedés and Parmentier published their General Lists of ins-
criptions and monuments in Champa and Cambodge to which
reference has been made above. Mention may be made in
this connection of the important Catalogue of Indo-Chinese
(including Cham) collections at the Musée Guimet (in French)
by Pierre Dupont and others (Paris, 1934). Meanwhile
important excavations were carried out by the French School
‘on the site of Tra-Kieu long before (B.E.F.E.O., XIV) iden-
tified by Aurousseau with the first capital of the Cham
Kingdom. The reliefs of the Tra-Kieu temple have since
been identified by Coedés (B.E.F.E.O., XXXII) as illustra-
ting the story of Krgna and Balarama told in the Harivarnsa
and the Puranas. As regards conservation of monuments,
‘one of the most interesting examples in recent times has been
the reconstruction by J.Y. Claeys of the principal temple-
tower of Po-Nagar built in 817 A.D. (For a popular account,
see J.Y. Claeys, Po-Nagar, Recent work of restoration by
the Ecole Francaise d’Extréme-Orient, A.B.I.A., 1931).
Coming to general history, we have to mention R.C
Majumdar's publication of a comprehensive account of the
history and culture of Champa (Champa: Greater India
Society's publication No. I, Lahore 1927), forming the first
volume of a projected series called Ancient Indian Colonies
in the Far East. This volume, while based principally
upon the monumental Le Royaume du Champa of Maspero
and Inventaire descriptif des monuments Cams of Parmen-
tier, seeks to throw new light upon some of the problems
of general history and the history of the art of Champa. Most
interesting is the author's attempt to prove against the high
authority of Parmentier his thesis that Cham architecture
was derived from Chalukya and Pallava styles as illustrated
by the temples of Badami, Conjeeveram and Mahabalipuram.
The value of Majumdar’s work has been enhanced by its
including the first complete Corpus of inscriptions from

Google
PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN RESEARCH or

Champa with his own translations and notes. More recent-
ly the problem of palaeography of the earliest Champa
inscriptions, on which hinges the question of provenance of
the first Indian colonists, has been discussed by R.C.
Majumdar (B.E.F.E.O., 1932) and K. A. Nilakanta Sastri
(B.E.F.E.O., 1935). In his paper Date of the earliest Sans-
krit inscription of Champa (J.G.1.S., VI, 1939), D. C. Sircar
has suggested a late date, viz. the 4th century A.D., for the
famous Vo-chaith rock inscription.

The researches of an Annamite scholar of the French
School, based on an exhaustive study of the Annamite and
Chinese as well as European authorities, have recently dis-
closed the interesting history of the origin and progress of
Buddhism in Ancient Annam. Buddhism, it appears, was
probably introduced from India into Annam by the direct
sea-route. Among its great missionaries were the Indian
monks Marajivaka and Kgudra (294 A.D.). not to speak of
the Soghdian monk Song-houei (c. 280 A.D.) and the Indo-
Scythian monk Kalyanaruchi (255 or 256 A.D.) (See Tran
van Giap, Le Bouddhisme en Annam des origines au XIlle
siécle, B.E.F.E.O., 1932). Excavations recently carried out
in Annam have resulted in the discoveries of sculptures
suggesting to J.Y, Claeys the Indian origin of Annam’s first
civilisation.

MALAYASIA,

The vast regions comprised in the modern Malay
Peninsula and the Malay Archipelago (otherwise called
Indonesia or Insulinde) were inhabited from remote times
by peoples of Austronesian speech. Known to Ancient
Indian literature under the vague designations of Suvama-
bhami and Suvarnadvipa and to the ancient Greek, Chinese
and Arab writers under equivalent terms, they were visited
by Indian merchants at least as early as the first century
A.D. and were afterwards colonised by Indian settlers.
*Paloura’ (or to give it its Indian name Dantapura) in Kalinga
was in the oldest times the great port of embarkation from
India to the Far East. Especially in Java, Sumatra and

Google
112 U. N. GHOSHAL

Malay the Hindu civilisation took firm root, as is evidenced
by the records of numerous Hindu (or Hinduised) kingdoms
flgurishing in those regions for at least a thousand yeare till
they were engulfed by the advancing tide of Islam in the
15th and 16th centuries, Twice during this long period,
under the great Sailendra dynasty and under the Indo-Java-
nese empire of Majapahit (called in Sanskrit Vilvatikta), the
greater part of Suvarnadvipa was brought under one political
control.

JAVA.

Apparently the oldest references to the island of Java
are ta be found in the Ramayana under the name of Java-
dvipa and in Ptolemy's Geography in the form of lavadiou
translated as ‘Barley Island’. A king called Devavarman, as
appears from a Chinese literary reference, ruled the country
in the first part of the 2nd century A.D. In the beginning
of the 5th century Fa Hian found Brahmanism flourishing in
the island, The oldest Sanskrit inscriptions found in the
island mention king Pirnavarman, son (?) of a Rajadhiraja
and grandson of a Rajargi, who ruled over Western Jay
the 5th or 6th century A.D. The oldest Sanskrit inscription
from Central Java written probably in the seventh century
shows this region to have been equally saturated with
Brahmanical culture. Under the succeeding dynasties, as is
proved by the splendid remains of architecture and sculpture
dating from the eighth century and the works of the Old
Javanese literature practically dating from the eleventh
century, an Indo-Javanese civilisation flourished exceedingly.

The early steps towards investigation of Javanese history
and culture were marked by the foundation of the Batavia
Society of Arts and Sciences (the oldest of the learned
Societies of the East) in 1778, by the first scientific explora-
tion of the Barabudur and Prambanan monuments during
the British interregnum by order of the Lt, Gavernor Sir
Stamford Raffles (the founder of archaeological research in
Java), by the publication of Raffles’s History of Java (Ist
edition, 1817) and lastly, by the issue of the first ecientific

Google
PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN RESEARCH 113,

study of Javanese art in 1824 by C. J. C. Reuvens, Director
of the newly founded Leyden Museum. The critical study
of the extensive Indo-Javanese literature largely based upon
the Sanskrit was” begun by Friedrich’s editions of the
Vyttasafichaya, the Arjunavivaha and the Bhomakavya
(1849-51) and his disquisitions on the Javanese Vedas,
Brahmandapurana, Mahabharata and so forth (Proceedings
of the Batavia Society, 1849). In the seventh decade of the
last century H. Kern initiated the critical study of Indonesian
epigraphy by editing a number of Sanskrit inscriptions from
Sumatra, Java and Borneo (V.G., V1), while A. B, Cohen
Stuart published (in Dutch) an important collection of
Charters in the native Kawi language with Introduction, facsi-
mile and transcript (Leyden 1875) and W. P. Groeneveldt
wrote his valuable Notes on the Malay Archipelago and
Malacca compiled from Chinese sources (Batavia, 1877). In
the following decade local museums were started at Jogya-
karta (afterwards transferred to Prambanan) and at Dieng,
in Central Java, The first catalogue of the archaeological
collection of the Museum of the Batavia Society was issued
by Groeneveldt in 1887, As regards the study of Indo-
Javanese literature, the Kufara-manava (regarded formerly as
the highest authority on Law in East Java) was edited with
Introduction and Dutch translation by J. B. G. Jonker
(Leyden 1885), while H. H. Juynboll in 1893 published his
Dutch translation of the Javanese Mahabharata (Parvans
XV-XVII) which ushered in a period of serious research on
the subject. We may also refer to the important gtudies
in the Indo-Javanese theatre by Brandes (T.B.G., 1889) and
by G. A. J. Hazeu (Leyden 1897). The first decade of the
present century witnessed, after many years of sad neglect,
the establishment in 1901 of the Committee in Netherlands-
India for the Archaeological Explorations in Java and
Madura (replaced by the Archaeological Service of
Netherlands-India in 1913) with J. L, A, Brandes as its first
Chairman. (For a scathing criticism of the archaeological
policy of the Dutch Colonial Government, see J. F.
Scheltema, Monumental Java, London 1912). During the

Google
114 U. N. GHOSHAL

twelve years of its existence the Committee published a
valuable series of Reports (Rapporten) noticing the chief
antiquities of the island year after year. The Committee
also started a sei of works (in Dutch) called Archaeolo-
gical Explorations in Java and Madura, of which the first
two volumes giving an exhaustive and well-illustrated
account of the well-known temples of Candi Jago and
Chandi Singhasari were published by Brandes in 1904 and
1909 respectively. To the credit of the Committee must also
be mentioned the restoration of the great stipa of Barabudur
(1907-11) by Col, Th. van Erp. Another significant feature
of this period was the growth of museums. The archaeolo-
gical collection of the Prambanan Museum was listed by J.
Knebel (Archaeological Report, 1902) and that of the Dieng
Museum by E. A. Sell (Archaeological Report, 1912).
Meanwhile Juynboll published his Catalogue of Javanese
antiquities in the National Museum of Ethnography at
Leyden. A new museum was established at Mojokerto near
Majapahit in Eastern Java out of the collection made over
to the State by an enlightened Javanese Officer in 1913.
The Sriwedari Museum was founded at Surakerta in Central
Java out of the private collection of a descendant of the
Royal House of Mataran. The Museum of the Royal Colo-
nial Institute at Amsterdam was founded in 1913, As for
epigraphy, Brandes edited a valuable collection of Old-
Javanese charters (Oud-Javaanasche Oorkonden) of which a
revised version was brought out by Krom in 1913. As
regards the interpretation of the monuments, C. M. Pleyte
attempted, with the imperfect materials at his command, a
complete identification of the bas-reliefs of the first gallery
of Barabudur with the Lalitavistara text illustrating Buddha's
life, His work (in German) bearing the title The Buddha
legend in the sculptures of the temple of Borobudur was
published from Amsterdam in 1901, The progress in the
study of Indo-Javanese literature was marked by Kern's
studies on the Old-Javanese Ramayana (Ramayana, Oud-
Javaansche Heldendicht, 1900) and his translation of the first
six cantos of the same work (V.G., X.), by Juynboll’s edition

Google
PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN RESEARCH 115

of the Javanese Adiparva (1906) and Virdfaparva (1912), by
J. G. H, Gunning’s edition (1903) of the Bhdratayuddha, “the
Iliad of the Javanese people.’ Meanwhile the rich stores
of the Javanese and related literature were made accessible
to scholars by the publication (in Dutch) of the Catalogue
of the Javanese and Madurese Mss. in the Leyden University
Library by Vreede (1892) and the Catalogue of the Malay
and Sundanese Mss, in the same library by Juynboll
(1899). A Supplement to the Catalogue of Javanese and
Madurese Mss, of the Leyden University Library was pub-
lished by Juynboll in two volumes (Leyden, 1907 & 1911),
and a Supplement to the Catalogue of Sundanese as well as
Balinese and Sasak Mss, in the same library was issued by
the same scholar in 1912. These catalogues brought to light
large number of Old-Javanese poems of the Kakawin
(roughly corresponding to Sanskrit Kavya) class, such as the
Indravijaya (story of Vrtra’e triumph and his subsequent
death at Indra’s hands), the Parthayajfia (story of Arjuna’s
asceticiom and acquisition of the Paéupata weapon), the
Sumanasantaka (story of the death of Indumatt, Queen of
Aja and mother of Daéaratha) and the Harivarhéa (story of
Rukmini’s abduction by Kryna and Krga’s war with
Jarsandha), Useful comparisons were made by Hazeu in
hie (Dutch) work called The Old-Javanese Adiparva and its
Sanskrit original (T.B.G., 1901) and by Wulff in his (Danish)
work called The Old-Javanese Virafaparva and its Sanskrit
original (1917). Valuable light was thrown upon the
Javanese religion by Juynboll’s publication of Sanskrit
mantras (with Old-Javanese translations) for the worship of
Vignu and his incarnations as well as by J. Kats’s edition
with an accompanying Dutch translation (1910) of the Sang
Hyang Kamahayai a fundamental work on Javanese
Buddhism.

During the last twenty-five years a steady, though not
uninterrupted, progress has been maintained in all branches
of Javanese research. To begin with archaeological explo-
ration and research, under the fostering care of F. W. K.
Bosch and W. F. Stutterheim, two successive Directors of

8

Google
116 U. N. GHOSHAL

the Archaeological Service of Java, the scope of the Service
was gradually widened so as to include prehistoric archaeo-
logy along with Balinese, Muslim, Christian and European
antiquities. The activities of the Service were registered in
successive numbers of its valuable Archaeological Reports.
(Oudheidkundig Verslag). Vol. VI of this Report (1926)
contains an excellent summary of Archaeological work in
Netherlands-India from 1901 to 1926 from the pen of N, J.
Krom. The publication of these Reports, however, was
stopped in 1931, to be resumed only in 1936. Meanwhile
Bosch initiated a new era in archaeological conservation by
starting the complete reconstruction of the ruined monu-
ments in place of the usual practice of restoring their fallen
parts. This process (called by the technical title of Anasty-
lose) was very successfully applied for the restoration of
some of the subsidiary shrines of the great Buddhist temple-
complex of Chandi Sewu (9th century), of the famous Bud-
dhist shrine of Chandi Kalasan (c. 778 A.D.), of the Si
temple of Chandi Singhasari, of the Naga temple at Pan:
taran and last but not the least, of the great Siva-shrine of
the Lara-Jongrang group (c. 10th century) at Prambanan.
Among the important discoveries standing to the credit of the
‘department in recent times may be mentioned that of the two
earliest Hindu temples in Central Java on the site of the
Changal inscription of 732 A.D., one of them probably
being identical with the Brahmanical temple said to have
been built by King Safijaya in that inscription. Another
significant discovery ie that of the two oldest temples of
Eastern Java, viz., the Sivite shrines of Badut and Besuki
dating from the 8th or 9th century, which by their plan and
decoration belong to a purely Central Javanese style. We
may, lastly, mention the discovery of a group of terraced
sanctuaries on Mt. Penanggungan in Eastern Java belong-
ing to the final period of Hinduism in the island (1400-1500
A.D.). These have been supposed to combine the indi-
genous ancestor-worship with Hinduistic beliefs. In the
field of epigraphy, as in that of archaeological exploration,
the progress in recent times has not been uninterrupted:

Google
PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN RESEARCH 7

In 1930 the epigraphist who was to have taken up the long-
announced and much deferred publication of a Corpus Ins-
criptionum Javanicarum was transferred to another post and
the appointment was not renewed till. 1939. On the other
hand Stutterheim, Goris, Naerssen and others have edited
numbers of new inscriptions in the various learned periodi-
cals, At the same time old inscriptions were re-edited and
discussed, e.g. those of king Pimavarman by Vogel (1925)
and the Kalasan and Kelurak inacriptions by Bosch (7.B.G.,
1928). Among Indian scholars who have taken part in this
work may be mentioned N. P, Chakravarti, H. B, Sarkar
and B, Ch. Chhabra, Among the most notable discoveries
in this field in recent times is that of three stone Yapa ins-
criptions of King Milavarman written in ‘Pallava script’
of the 4th or 5th century A.D., as announced in the Year-
Book of the Batavia Society for 1941.

Turning to the critical study of Javanese art, we have
first to mention the comprehensive account of Indo-Javanese
monuments from the earliest times furnished by N. J.
Krom's Dutch work called Introduction to Indo-Javanese
Art (2nd edition, vols. I-Il Text, vol. III Plates, 1923). In
this monumental work the author, after giving preliminary
accounts of the history of Javanese archaeological explora-
tions and the origin and technique of Javanese art, presents
for the first time a systematic and detailed description of
the monuments and concludes with a rapid review of
Javanese metal-work, In the course of his illuminating
survey the author clearly and pointedly explains the general
characteristics of the building and plastic styles, and he
frequently discusses, as in connection with Brandes's theory
of the Indian origin of the Buddhist images of the Chandi
Jago temple, the question of Indian influence. In 1926
Krom published his work (in French) called Javanese Art in
the Museums of Holland and Java in the Ars Asiatica
Series, It contains 60 beautiful Plates illustrating specimens
of Javanese plastic art in stone and metal together with an
illuminating Introduction tracing the development of
Javanese art as a whole during successive periods. Recently

Google
8 U. N. GHOSHAL

R, C. Majumdar (Suoarnadtipa, Part II, Calcutta, 1938) has
presented an elaborate and well-illustrated description of
Javanese architecture and sculpture based primarily upon
Krom’s great work, but also incorporating the results of later
research. .

The all important question of the relation of Indian to
Javanese art has been discussed by Bosch in a Dutch paper
called A hypothesis as to the origin of Indo-Javanese Art
(1921; Eng. tr. in Rapam, 1924). While rejecting the com-
fortable view that the Hindu emigrants were the actual
builders of the Middle-Javanese shrines, Bosch seeks to
prove from an elaborate comparison between the Manasara
and the existing remains of Javanese architecture and sculp-
ture that the native Javanese actually knew and applied the
written instructions, but the texts which in India remained
mere academic projects were executed by them with the
zeal of neophytes. ‘The Hindus were the bringers, the
propagators and interpreters of technical texts, but the
Javans themselves were the makers of the Central-Javanese
shrines."” Similar, if less definite, views have been express-
ed by Krom according to whom (Cf. Hindoe-Javaansche
Geschiedenis, 2nd edition, chap. IV) the creators of the
art of the Dieng Plateau were neither Hindus nor Indone-
sians, but rather Hindu-Javans who had adopted the art-
traditions of the Indian masters but had also involuntarily
introduced some of their Indonesian characteristics. In his
Archaeological Description of Barabudur (Vol. II, ch.
XI) Krom similarly says that the art of Barabudur is not
foreign, but is a product of Java, a fusion of Hindu and
Javanese elements. With this we may compare the following
statement of Stutterheim (J.A.0.S., LI, no. 1). ‘The Hindu-
Javanese Chandi is neither a Hindu temple nor a truly
Hinduistic building, though its shape and ornaments are
Hindu in origin. It is a thoroughly Indonesian monument
based on ly Indonesian conceptions."’ Bosch's theory
has been criticised by O. C. Gangoly (Ripam 1924) and R.
C. Majumdar (Suvarnadvipa, Part Il, concluding chapter).
According to the last-named author Gupta art was the

Google
PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN RESEARCH 119

source of the architecture and sculpture of Malayasia which
remained untouched by South Indian influences till the 10th
‘or 1th century A.D.

No single monument has attracted the attention of
scholars so much as the great stipa at Barabudur which has
gathered a vast literature around itself since its first scienti-
fic description by H. G. Cornelius in 1814. (See The Biblio-
graphy of Barabudur, 1814-1926 appended to the second
volume of Krom's Archaeological Description which runs
through 18 pages). A magnificent Description of Barabudur
(in Dutch) illustrated with a complete and sumptuous set of
Plates was published by the Royal Institute of Linguistics,
Geography and Ethnography of Netherlands-India in two
parts. The first part of this great work bearing the title Arch-
aeological Description was issued by Krom in two volumes
(1920) (Chap. III of this work with appropriate plates was pub-
lished by the same author simultaneously in Dutch and in
English translation, 1926. The complete translation of the
whole work was published later by the same author in 1927).
Among the outstanding features of the Archaeological Des-
cription are the author's complete and accurate identification
of panels of the first gallery of the stiipa with the Lalitavistara,
the Jatakamala of Aryagira, the Divyavadana and other texts
suggested before by C. M. Pleyte, S, d’Oldenburg and A.
Foucher respectively. He also showed the panels of the
second gallery to be illustrative of the.Gandavyiha (a
Mahayanist Stra describing the wanderings of the youth
Sudhana all over India in the quest for enlightenment) and
those of the third and fourth galleries to be illus-
trations of as yet unidentified texts associated with the
Bodhisattvas Maitreya and Samantabhadra respectively.
To his credit must also be mentioned the identification
of the Dhyani-Buddhas of the upper terraces with the
group of six Dhyani-Buddhas with Vajrasattva as their
chief known to Nepalese, Chinese and Tibetan Buddhism.
The probable date of foundation of the famous monument
was found by the author, from a number of short inscrip-
tions at ite base, to be the second half of the eighth century.

Google
120 U. N. GHOSHAL

Finally we have to mention Krom’s conclusion that the
Buddhism of Barabudur (like Javanese Buddhism in general
from first to last) was a kind of Tantrik Mahayana based
on the Yogachara. The next step in clearing the mystery
of the monument was taken by Sylvain Lévi who discovered
(Recherches a Java et 2 Bali, Leiden, 1929) the reliefs on the
buried basement of Barabudur to be illustrative of a very
popular Buddhist text on the working of Karma viz., the
Karmavibhaga. The Sanskrit text was published (Paris
1932) by him with a French translation and the parallel
Pali, Chinese, Tibetan and Kuchean versions. This was
accompanied by a comparative table of the different re-
censions of the text and the corresponding panels of the
Barabudur. Well might the great French scholar exclaim,
“The stipa of Barabudur had revealed one of its last
secrets."” A ‘detailed comparison of the Karmavibhanga
text and the Barabudur reliefs was made by Krom (Med.
Kon, Ak. van Wet., LXXVI, Series B. no. 8). Nearly at
the time of Lévi's discovery Bosch was able to prove from
a close examination of the original Sanskrit Ms, in Paris
that the panels of the third and fourth galleries illustrated
the conclusion of the Gandavyiha representing 110 travels
of Sudhana mentioned in the text. (See Bosch’s Report in
Arch. Rep. 1929 and his Dutch work called The Identi-
fication of reliefs of the third and fourth galleries of Bara-
budur, 1929). It has thus been clearly established that the
Gandavyiha was the principal and the central text of the
Barabudur.

We have now to refer to the second part of the monu-
mental Description of Barabudur above-mentioned. It
was published (in Dutch) by van Erp (1931) under the
title The Architectural Description. Dealing exhaus-
tively with the style, the technique and the ornaments of
the monument, the author says that Barabudur is “‘a special
Javanese form of the stipa, though fitting in the general
evolution of the Indian stipa.’” The ornaments, according
to him, are of purely Indian origin.

The question of symbolism of Barabudur has become, as

Google
PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN RESEARCH 121

has been well said, “‘an apple of discord among scholars.”
While Foucher, Parmentier and van Exp have offered what
may be called “architectural interpretations” of its unique
plan and structure, “‘religious interpretations” have been
presented by Krom, Stutterheim and Poerbatjaraka. The
whole question has been discussed in a very thorough
fashion by P. Mus in his series of papers (in French) called
Barabudur, the origins of the stipa and the transmigration :
essay in comparative religious archaeology, B.E.F.E.O., 1932-
34). According to this scholar the entire monument is a
close microcosm, its exterior envelopment corresponding
to the cosmic stipa while its interior corresponds to a
prasada,

OF other monuments in Java forming the subject of inde-
pendent study in recent times, we may refer only to the
great Siva temple of the Lara-Jongrang group at Prambanan
(Central Java) and the main shrine of the temple-complex
at Panataran (Eastern Java). These temples are adorned
with a series of reliefs depicting the story of the Ramayana
from the beginning to the expedition to Lanka. A compre-
hensive account of these reliefs accompanied with adequate
illustrations is given by Stutterheim in his German work
called Rama-legends and Rama-reliefs in Indonesia (2
volumes, Miinchen, 1925). The author mentions the curi-
‘ous fact that while the earlier (9th century) reliefs at Pram-
banan are distinctly Indian in character but illustrate a
non-Valmikian version of the Epic, the later (14th century)
Panataran series is typically Indonesian in style but is more
closely based on Valmiki’s Ramayana. A popular and
illustrated account based on the above is presented by
J. Kats in his Dutch work bearing the title The Ramayana
on Javanese temple-relicfs (Batavia-Leiden, 1925).

The Javanese bronzes which are remarkable for their
high artistic quality and unique iconographic interest have
engaged the serious attention of scholars in recent times,
though it has not been possible as-yet to classify their
styles. We have already referred to Krom’s very valuable
Introduction to the Hindu-Javanese Art as well as his other

Google
122 U. N. GHOSHAL

work called Javanese Art in the Museums of Holland and
Java, both of which contain important notices of Javanese
bronzes, The old Javanese bronzes in the Ethnographical
collection of the National Museum at Vienna have been des-
cribed by R. Heine-Geldern (Vienna 1925), while those in
the Royal Ethnographic Museum at Leiden have been cata-
logued by A. C, Tobi (Archaeological Report, 1930). The
bronzes in the Batavia Museum have been desctibed by
Bosch (Archaeological Report, 1923). More recently A. J.
Beret Kempers has discussed (The Bronzes of Nalanda
and Hindu-Javanese art, Leiden, 1933) the mutual relation
of Pala and Javanese bronzes. His conclusion is that the
Hindu-Javanese bronzes in general have not developed
from Pala art, but the Pala images have enriched the art
of Java with a number of motifs and types. In recent times
@ good synoptic view of this branch of art has been given
by R. C, Majumdar (Suvarnadvipa, Part I, Calcutta 1938).

Much attention has been bestowed during recent times
upon the origin of the Javanese dance and shadow-play
(Wayang), those two fine flowers of Javanese culture. In
his exhaustive work published simultaneously in Dutch and
in French called The Javanese Art of Dancing, (or The
Dance in the Javanese Theatre, 1931), Th. B. van Lelyveld
has traced the Javanese dance to a distinctly Indian origin.
As for the Wayang, its indigenous origin was long ago assert-
ed by Brandes (T.B.G., 1889) and by Hazeu (Leiden, 1897).
On the other hand Krom (Hindoe-Javaansche Geschiedenis,
2nd edition, pp. 49ff) has strongly asserted its Indian origin,
and his view has been endorsed by R. C. Majumdar
(op. cit.).

During the last quarter of this century the steady growth
of museums and leamed societies to which reference was
made above has been well maintained. We may refer to
the publication of Bosch’s Catalogue of the Sriwedari
Museum at Surakarta (Archaeological Report, 1923) and
the opening of the Museum of the Java Institute at Jogya-
karta (1935). The Batavia Society which issued in 1929 a
commemoration vohimé (Feestbundel} on the occasion of ite

Google
PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN RESEARCH 123

150th year (1778-1928) has been regularly publishing ite valu-
able Journal (in Dutch) called The Journal of Indian Linguis-
tics, Geography and Ethnography (abbreviated as T.B.G.).
Since 1933 it has been issuing its Year-Books containing
detailed notices of its aquisitions under the heads ‘Pre-his-
toric’, ‘Archaeological’, ‘Historical’, ‘Mss’. ‘Ceramics’ and
‘Ethnographic’ Collections. Other specialised Journals (in
Dutch) are Djéwé, the Journal of the Java Institute at
Weltevreden and the Contributions to the Linguistics, Geo-
graphy and Ethnology of Netherlands-India abbreviated as
B.K.l., which is the organ of The Royal Colonial Institute
at the Hague.

Within the last twenty years intensive studies have been
carried out in the field of Old-Javanese religious beliefs and
practices, We have referred above to Krom’s great work
Archaeological Description of Barabudur in course of which
the author discusses the pantheon as well as the form of
Buddhism at Barabudur. His view is that the Buddhism of
Barabudur was a form of Tantric Mahayana based on the
Yogachara. In T.B.G., 1924 Moens has described the last
phase of Mahayana Buddhism in Sumatra and Java and has
called particular attention to the Tantric beliefs and practices
of the Javanese king Kritanagara and the Sumatran king
Adityavarman in the 13th century. In the same year Pigeaud
published a critical edition of a fundamental work on Brah-
manism in Java called Tantu Panggelaran (‘World-Theatre ”)
It contains cosmogonic and mythological legends, descrip-
tions of mandalas (orders of religious ascetics) and pakshas
(religious sects) and so forth. A large number of Javanese
sacred texts, mostly based upon Sanskrit originals and con-
taining Sanskrit verses with Old-Javanese translations, have
been analysed by R. Goris in his fundamental work (in
Dutch) called Old-Javanese and Balinese Theology (1926).
Among the texts utilised by Goris may be mentioned the
Saryasevana, the Bhuvanakoéa, the Bhuvanasarikgepa, the
Sang Hyang Mahéjfiana and the Brihaspatitattoa. The last
work has been proved by A. Zieseniss (Z.D.M.G., XIll,
No. 2) to belong to the literature of Agamas which are

9

Google .
124 U. N. GHOSHAL.

the sources of the Saivasiddhanta. The last-named author
has since published in German a valuable paper called
Studies in the history of Saivism and Saivistic system in the
Old-Javanese literature (B.K.I., 1939), In the de luxe volume
called Mythologie asiatique illustrée (Paris 1928) H.
Marchal contributed a chapter on Indo-Chinese and Java-
nese mythology, two other important contributions being
those of J. Hackin on the Mythology of Lamaism and the
Mythology of Buddhism in Central Asia. The descriptions
are accompanied with excellent illustrations. A summary
of religious conditions in Java based on Dutch authorities is
given by R. C. Majumdar (op. cit.). Reference may be made
in this connection to F. M. Schnitger’s article (in Dutch)
called Some archaeological remarks on Tanérism in Java
B.K.L, Vol. XC.

Turning to the study of Old-Javanese literature, we have
to mention Juynboll’s translation of the Javanese Ramayana
(Cantos VII-XXIII) in B.K.I., in continuation of Kern's tran-
slation of the same (Cantos I-VI). A new series called
Bibliotheca Javanica has been started under the auspices of
the venerable Royal Batavia Society for the publication of
Old-Javanese and Middle-Javanese texts with their
translations. Among works so far published in the
series are the Tantri Kamandaka (ed. G. Hooykas), the
Smaradahana (ed. L. Poerbatjaraka), the Nitisastra
ed. Poerbatjaraka), the Old-Javanese Brahmandapuréna
(ed. J. Gonda) and the Old-Javanese Bhismaparvan (ed.
Gonda). The first consists of three mediaeval Javanese
versions of stories and fables with parallel Siamese and
Laotian versions, which bear the closest affinity to the
Kanarese version of the Pajicatantra by Durgasithha,
the second tells the story immortalised by Kalidasa in his
Kumdarasambhavam about Kama's being burnt to ashes by
the wrath of Siva, the third is a collection of wise sayings,
moral precepts and so forth of the Chanakyaniti class,
the fourth is the most important Javanese work of the
Purana class. Another work of the last-named category,
the Agastyaparva, has been edited by Gonda JB. K. I.,

Google
PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN RESEARCH 125,

1933). The Old-Javanese prose works of the Mahabharata
class that have recently been published include the Kora-
vaérama (ed, J. L. Swellengrebel) and the Navaruchi (ed.
M. Prijohoetomo). In his paper Hindu Literature in Java
(LA.L., VI, 1932) C. C. Berg distinguished between three
periods of this literature as also between its two court lite-
ratures and its popular religious literature. The study of
this literature, however, according to the same scholar has
to remain provisional at present, because of the paucity of
critical editions of texts and of works on grammar and
lexicography. A comprehensive account of Old-Javanese
and Balinese literature in all its branches with special re-
ference to its Indian affinities has been presented by Himansu
Bhusan Sarkar in his work Indian Influences on the Litera-
ture of Java and Bali (Greater India Society's Publication,
Calcutta 1934). More recently R. C, Majumdar has given
a good summary of the whole subject based on the Dutch
authorities in his Suvarnadvipa, (Part Il).

The last quarter of this century has been very prolific in
discussions of problems relating to the history and culture
of Java. To take a few examples, the place of the sage
Agastya in Javanese culture-history has been discussed by
O. C. Gangoly (The cult of Agastya and the origin of
Indian colonial art, Rapam, 1926), L. Poerbatjaraka (Agastya
in den Archipel, Leiden, 1926), K.A.N. Sastri (T.B.G.
1936). The history and topography of Srivijaya and
Kagaha has been discussed by Ir. J. L, Moens (T.B.G. 1937),
K.A.N. Sastri (J.G.1.S., 1938; B.E.FE.O. 1940). Of more
general character is the Expansion of Indo-Aryan Culture
during Pallava rule as evidenced by inscriptions of B. Ch.
Chhabra (J.-A Letters, vol. 1, 1935). Of outstanding
importance is the standard work of N. J. Krom called Hindu-
Javanese History (Hindoe-Javaansche Geschiedenis, Ist
edition 1926, 2nd edition 1931). Based on an exhaustive
study of all the available data, it traces the history of Java
from the earliest times to the ultimate triumph of Islam in
the early sixteenth century. Accompanying the author's
notices of political history are illuminating studies on the

Google
126 U. N. GHOSHAL

art and literature of the island during the successive cen-
turies. This fundamental work has been utilised by R. C.
Majumdar (Suvarnadvipa, Part |), but the author has also
sought to throw new light upon the numerous unsolved
problems of Javanese history and culture. A bird's-eye
view of India’s cultural and other contacts with the Pacific
lands (extending from Java, Sumatra and Indo-China to
China, Japan, Hawaii and New Zealand) during Hindu
times as also in the Prehistoric Age and in recent years is
Presented by Kalidas Nag in his well-documented work
India and the Pacific World, (Calcutta, 1941).

BALI

The small island of Bali lying immediately east of Java
enjoys, as is well known, the unique distinction of maintain-
ing its Hindu culture down to moder times. But unfor-
tunately the materiale are lacking for a connected account
of ite history, art and literature. The plausible identifica-
tion by Pelliot (B.E.F.E.O. 1904) of the island of P'oli
mentioned by the Chinese authorities of the 6th and 7th
centuries A.D, with Bali had the result of throwing some
light upon the obscure history of the island during those
centuries. From these accounts we learn that kings bear-
ing the family name of Kaundinya and belonging to the
Keatriya caste ruled the country in those early times and
that the Milasarvastivada Nikaya was almost universally
prevalent there. In recent times the systematic search for
antiquities has yielded a number of stone and copper-plate
inscriptions in Sanskrit, Old-Balinese and Old-Javanese
dating from the 8th century onwards. Transcripts of these
inscriptions have been published by P. van Stein
Callenfels in the Epigraphia Balica | (1926) and by Stutter-
heim in his Dutch work called The Antiquities of Bali (1929),
while other inscriptions have been published by R. Goris
(Archaeological Report, 1929). These records have dis-
closed the existence of a line of independent kings of the
10th century bearing Hindu names, viz. Ugrasena, Janasi-
dhuvarmmadeva, Keéarivarma and so forth. In 1926 a

Google
PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN RESEARCH 127

Dutch architect P.A.J. Moojen published an ambitious work
called the Art of Bali. Introductory studies on the Archi-
tecture, which claimed to discuss the history and general
characteristics of Balinese art, ite religious and sociological
basis, the rules and traditions of building construction
and 80 forth. The history, palaeography, topography, reli-
gion and art of Bali were discussed along with its inscrip-
tions by Stutterheim in the work The Antiquities of Bali
above mentioned. The art of Bali was also discussed by the
same scholer in his Indian Influences in Old-Balinese Art
(India Society, London 1935) which traces the history of
religion and antiquities of the island from early times down
to the [4th century A.D. Distinguishing four successive
periods of Balinese art, the author says that the art of the
early period (8th-I0th centuties) was dominated by Indian
traditions, while during the Early and the Middle Indo-
Balinese periods (I|th-I2th & 13th-I4th centuries) the Indian
tradition was gradually modified by local as well as the im-
ported Javanese elements. The Modern period dating from
the I5th century does not call here for any special comment.

In his work Sanskrit texts from Bali (G.OS., LXVII,
Baroda, 1933) Sylvain Lévi has classified the Balinese works
collected by him in 1928 under four heads (1) Chaturveda, (2)
Stotras, (3) Buddhaveda (4) Karakasamgraha, Charitra
Ramayana, Naisthikajfiéna, Daéasila and the exercises in
translation from Sanskrit into Balinese. The first really
consists of the three first sections of the Narayana Athar-
vasiras-Upanigad, the second consists of 39 short pieces, the
third dealing with the daily ritual of a Buddhist priest con-
sists of fragments of Tantras.

The history and culture of Bali have been investigated
by Krom in his Hindu-Javanese History already mentioned,
and more recently by R. C. Majumdar in his Suvarnadvipa
Parts I & Il.

BORNEO AND CELEBES

The large island of Borneo called Tafjungpura and
Bakulapura in the mediaeval Javanese records was colonised

Google - 4
128 U. N. GHOSHAL.

by Hindu settlers as early as the 4th century A.D. The
oldest Sanskrit inscriptions of the island belonging to that
period, viz. the Ydpa inscriptions of king Milavarman,
were discovered as far back as 1879 and being first published
by Kern, were afterwards (1918) re-edited by Vogel. These
records refer themselves to a line of Hindu (or Hinduised)
kings ruling in East Borneo, of whom the last namely Mila-
varman performed the Bahusuvarnaka sacrifice attended
with splended gifts to Brahmans, Inscriptions with Buddhist
formulas have since been found in West Borneo and these
have been edited by B. Ch. Chhabra (J.A.S.B., Letters,
1935). An important expedition sent to Central and East
Borneo in 1925 resulted in the discovery of a remarkable
group of Brahmanical and Buddhist images concealed in a
cave. Among these were stone images of Mahadeva, Nandi,
Karttikeya and Ganeéa. The Buddhist images were of a
peculiar iconographic type. These precious sculptures along
with some related images in the Batavia Museum were pub-
lished by Bosch in the Archaeological Report (1925) and in
the official report of the expedition (1927). Judging from
the style of the images, Bosch held that they could be attri-
buted neither to Indian nor Indo-Javanese colonists, but
were probably the work of Indo-Javanese settlers long out
of touch with the home-land or else of Hinduised Dyaks.
Another important group of Hindu relics from Borneo has
been discussed (J.G.I.S., Ill, 1936) by O.C. Gangoly, who
concludes that the question whether Borneo derived its Hindu
culture directly from India or indirectly from Java must re-
main open. Recently R. C, Majumdar (Suvarnadvipa, Part II)
has suggested from a fresh examination of the Hindu images
on the East coast of Borneo that the Hindu colonists deve-
loped an independent art somewhat influenced by Indo-
Javanese traditions.

Passing from Borneo to the neighbouring island of
Celebes we have to mention the large-sized bronze Buddha
which was found there and is now preserved in the Batavia
Museum. Judging from schematic folds of its drapery,

Google
PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN RESEARCH 129

Bosch has concluded (T.B.G., 1933) that it was imported
directly from Amaravati.

. The fragmentary records of Hindu culture in Borneo and
Celebes have been pieced together by R. C, Majumdar in
his work above mentioned (Suvarnadvipa, Parts I & I)..

SUMATRA

By far the most important contribution that has been
made in recent times to the general history of Sumatra and
adjoining lands is the brilliant reconstruction of the rise and
fall of the Hindu kingdom of Srivijaya by the French
scholar Coedés in 1918. In his epoch-making paper (in
French) with the title The Kingdom of Srivijaya (B.E.F.E.O.
XVIII) he traced with the help of the surviving archaeo-
logical remains and the scattered Chinese, Arab and South
Indian references the fortunes of this kingdom from the
latter part of the 7th to the 13th century. From the evidence
of the Chinese pilgrim I-tsing it was already known that
Srivijaya was the chief emporium of trade between China
and India and was the centre of Buddhist learning in the
islands of the Southern Seas. Ccedés’s new hypothesis that
Srivijaya city which he identified with Palembang was also
the nucleus of the great Sailendra dynasty that ruled
Malayasia for more than two centuries was developed by
Krom and Vogel in their respective papers (in Dutch) bear-
ing the titles The Sumatran period of Javanese history
(Leiden, 1919) and The kingdom of Srivijaya (B.K.I., 1919)
respectively. In these papers was. emphasised the enormous
influence exercised by Srivijaya kings in introducing
Mahayana Buddhism into Java and in building the splendid
monuments of Barabudur, Chandi Kalasan and the like.
These results were incorporated by Ferrand in his connected
account (in French) called The Sumatran Empire of Srivijaya
U.A. 1922) tracing the history of Srivijaya (or Sailendra)
Empire from the earliest times to the 12th century A.D. and
later. The history of Sumatra was treated on similar lines
by Krom in his Hindoe-Javaansche Geschiedenis already
mentioned. In 1927 Qcedés published a French article on the

Google
130 U. N. GHOSHAL

Fall of the Srivijaya Kingdom (B.K.I., Vol. 83), tracing its
decline from about 1178 A.D. In B.E.F.E.O., 1930 the
same scholar wrote (in French) a paper called The Malay
Inscriptions of Srivijaya, where, while re-editing the four
oldest inscriptions of this kingdom, he took the inscription
of 683 A.D, to mean that Vajrayana Buddhism already
known to have prevailed in Bengal towards the middle of the
7th century was established in Sumatra towards the close of
that century. The brilliant hypothesis of Qoedés to which
reference has been made above has met with a considerable
amount of criticism in later times. In his paper A Javanese
period in Sumatran history (Surakarta 1929) Stutterheim
sought completely to reverse Coedés's position by asserting
that the Sailendras originally belonged to Java and after-
wards conquered Srivijaya, Recently R. C. Majumdar
(B.E.F.E.0., 1933; J.G.L 1934; Suvarnadvipa, Part I,
Bk, 2, App.) has given good grounds for doubting on the
one hand the identity of Srivijaya with the kingdom of the
Gailendras and the Zabag and San-fo-tsi kingdoms of the
Azab and Chinese writers and on the other hand for identi-
fying the last three as synonymous terms and placing them
in the northern part of the Malay Peninsula. Majumdar's
view was subtantially accepted by Qoedés (J.G.I.S., 1934).
In another respect Coedés’s view has been modified by later
research, Referring to the old Malay inscriptions of
Srivijaya, Vallée Poussin has shown the slight part played
therein by Tantrism and has rehabilitated the evidence of
Ltsing about the predominance of the Sarvastivada school
in the Archipelago.

Sumatra is very poor in archaeological remains so much
so that a connected history of its architecture and sculpture
cannot be written, Nevertheless important finds of Bud-
dhist sculptures in stone and metal along with other anti-
quities were made at Palembang after 1920. The Indian
affinities of these sculptures were discussed by Bosch
(Archaeological Report, 1930) and Krom (A.B.LA. 1931) as
well as by K. A. Nilakanta Sastri (J-G.I.S., III), R. C.
Majumdar (J.I.S.0.4.; Vol. 1, Suvarnadoipa, Part Il, pp.

PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN RESEARCH 132

522-326 and D. P. Ghosh (J.G.1.S., Vols. | & Hl). The first
systematic excavations were carried out in Sumatra on a
number of ancient sites by F. M. Schnitger in 1935 and 1936.
The results were recorded by him in a series of well-illus-
trated monographs (in Dutch) called Archaeological Finds in
Padang Lawas (Central Tapanuli), Hindu Antiquities of
Batang Hari and Archaeological Finds in Palembang (Leiden
1936). A detailed account of his discoveries in Central,
Southern and Western Sumatra with a large number of illus
trations was given by the same author in his work The
Archaeology of Hindoo Sumatra, (Leiden 1937). This work
discloses a wealth of antiquities viz., terracottas, stone and
bronze sculptures of superb workmanship representing Siva
and Vignu as well as Buddha, Lokegvara and Maitreya
besides architectural remains of stiépas and so forth. The
sculptures have been held to belong to Amaravati, Gupta
and Pala styles. Reference is also made to the evidences
of Bhairava cult in vogue in the country in the late Hindu
times. Some of Schintger's iconographical identifications
have since been corrected by J. N. Banerjee in J.G.1.S., (IV,
1937), Quite recently Krom has brought forward in a Dutch
paper called The Sanctuaries of Palembang (Mededeekingen
der Kontinklijke Nederlandsche Akademie van Wetens-
chappen, Deel }, No. 7) evidence to prove that Palembang
was identical with Old Malayu and that the Buddhist sanc-
tuary on its western side reflected the South Indian style,
while the Siddhayatra sanctuary on its eastern side which
was Indonesian at first was Hinduised after the 7th century.

MALAY PENINSULA.
The first detailed and authentic account of the Malay
Peninsula, the Malayadvipa and the Kafahadvipa of the
Puranas, is given by Ptolemy in the 2nd century A.D., evi-
dently in the light of the accurate knowledge acquired at
that time by the Indians. In the mediaeval period Malay was
sometimes included in great empires like those of Srivijaya
and the Sailendrae as well as the Indo-Javanese empire of
Majapabit. At other times it was split up into a number of
10

Google
132 U. N. GHOSHAL

insignificant kingdoms. But no connected account of the
peninsula is traceable from the scanty records, The sur-
vival of Hindu rule in different parts of the peninsula (Pahang
‘or Indrapura, Kelantan and Malacca) may be traced to the
second decade of the 15th century which ushered in the
advent of Islam.

It was nearly a century ago that Lt. Col. James Low
carried out some unsystematic excavations in the north-
west part of British Malay forming Province Wellesley and
the Kedah State. He discovered a set of twelve Sanskrit
inscriptions which were published by J. W. Laidlay
(J.A.S.B., 1848-1849) in a very imperfect fashion. These
inscriptions have since been edited by competent scholars
like Kern (V.G., Ill) and B. Ch. Chhabra (J.A.S.B., Letters,
1935). They prove that colonists from Northern and Southern
India were settled on the west coast of Malay by the 4th
or 5th centuries A.D. and that they followed the Buddhist
religion. Four of these inscriptions refer to a great sailor
Buddhagupta, an inhabitant of Raktamrittika (identified
with Rafgamati in modern Murshidabad district of Bengal).
Another group of Sanskrit inscriptions of the same early
period discovered at Ligor, Takuapa and Caiya in North
Malay was published with facsimile in the Bulletin de la
Commission Archéologique de l'Indo-Chine (1910), but they
still remain un-edited. The opening up of the States of
Kedah and Perak to rubber plantation and tin mining in
quite recent times has brought to light a number of anti-
quities which were described by Ivor H. N. Evans Ethno-
grapher to the Perak Museum (Papers on the Ethnology and
Archaeology of the Malay Peninsula, Cambridge 1927).
They show that the Kedah region was occupied by Indian
colonists professing Saivism as well as Buddhism during the
4th-5th centuries A.D. According to the same evidence an
Indian colony, was settled at Perak by the 5th century A.D.
Among the objects discovered by Evans was a seal from
Perak with the legend Sri Visnuoarmmanah written in incor-
rect Sanskrit in Pallava Grantha characters [For discussion
of this seal, see B, Ch, Chhabra, J.G.1.S., Il, 1935 giving full

Google —
PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN RESEARCH 133

references]. Unfortunately no law was passed for the pro-
tection of ancient monuments, as had been done in India
and Indonesia. “‘Hence sites of the utmost importance must
have been destroyed by mining operations in Perak, while in
Kedah many promising mounds were demolished to provide
road material or merely levelled down as being useless obs-
tructions"’ (Quaritch Wales, A.B.I.A., 1937, p. 38). How-
ever that may be, chance finds have been made recently
from the tin mines at Perak, of three bronze Avalokitesvara
images in addition to those brought to light by Evans [For a
description of the whole group with full references and some
illustrations, see H. G. Quaritch Wales, Archaeological
Researches on ‘Ancient Indian colonization in J.R.A.S.

M.B., XVIII, Part 1, February 1940.] The first systematic
archaeological exploration of British Malay was undertaken
by H. G. Quaritch Wales under the auspices of the Greater
India Research Committee in London and with the generous
support of the Malay States concerned. Following closely
upon his first two archaeological expeditions to Siamese
territory (to which reference has been made above),
Wales led his third expedition (1937-39) into the Malay
States of Kedah, Perak and Johore. The valuable
results of this expedition were published in a special
number (Vol. XVII. Pt. I, 1940) of the Journal of
the Malay Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society. Among the
objects brought to light by the explorer may be mentioned
basements of stipas containing Sanskrit inscriptions in South
Indian characters of the 4th-6th centuries mentioning the
Buddhist creed and Mahayana Buddhist verses, the remains
of Brahmanical temples of the 7th-8th centuries with frag-
ments of Sivite images, and lastly, gold and silver discs with
names of Bodhisattvas inscribed in Sanskrit in South Indian
characters of the 9th century. Deriving his historical conclu-
sions from the above data, the author postulated four suc-
cessive waves of Hindu colonisation from the Ist century to
¢. 900 A.D. Again, while finding further support for his
view that the Sailendra empire had its head-quarters in the
Malay Peninsula, he was led to locate Kadaram, the capital

Google
134 U. N. GHOSHAL.

of the Sailendras, in the Kinta valley in Perak, in modifica-
tion of his previous hypothesis (strongly criticised by
Coedés, J.R.A.S.M.B., XIV, 1936), identifying the same with
Caiya and Ligor. He also attempted the reconstruction of
the later history of Kedah (from the close of the 13th century
to the conversion to Islam in 1474 A.D.) by means of a criti-
cal analysis of the Kedah Annals. One of the kings men-
tioned in these Annals, Raja Bersiong, according to him,
‘was not only a historical personage but was addicted to the
Bhairava cult of which the popularity is proved by the
famous Bhairava statue representing the Sumatran King
Adityavarman in the 13th century.

As regards general history of the Malay Peninsula, the
invaluable Chinese texts referring to the kingdoms of the
Southern Seas in the early centuries of the Christian era
have been studied and discussed by a number of scholars
such as Groeneveldt, Schlegel, Pelliot and Ferrand ever
since the seventh decade of the last century, But unfortu-
nately the identifications of most of these kingdoms still
remain matters of dispute. Provisionally, however, we may
take these accounts to mean that a certain number of Hindu
kingdoms existed in Malay in the S5th-6th centuries. Such are
“Lang-yu-su" (Isthmus of Kra or of Ligor) “where the pre-
cious Sanskrit was generally known,’ Kan-to-li (Kadara?)
where Buddhism was held in the highest veneration and
Karmaranga or Charmaranga (Ligor) mentioned in the
Mafijuérimalakalpa and other Indian works. Regarding the
later history of Malay we have already referred to the bril-
liant paper of Qoedés on The Kingdom of Srivijaya (B.E.F.
E.0., 1918) pointing to a great Sumatran empire having its
capital at Palembang and including within its limits Malay
and Java in the late 8th century. We have also noticed
that R, C, Majumdar has on good grounds called in ques-
tion Coedé’s identification of the Srivijaya kingdom with
the Sailendra empire and placed the seat of the latter in
North Malay. In this connection Majumdar stated that the
Sailendras were probably immigrants from Kalinga who
spread their sway over the Far East by way of Lower Burma

Google
PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN RESEARCH 135,

and Malay. On the other hand Coedés (J.G.1S., 1, 1934) has
suggested that the Sailendras were originally related to the
kings of Fu-nan and after their expulsion from Indo-China
resumed the old dynastic title and reasserted the old poli-

» tical and territorial claims. Other views have been put for-
ward by Przyluski (J.G.1.S., 1) and K. ‘A. Nilakanta Sastri
(T.B.G., LXXV). As for the last phase of Hindu rule in
Malay, not to speak of the Chinese texts studied and dis-
cussed by Groeneveldt and Schlegel, we may mention the
indigenous traditions collected from the Malay chronicles and
the early Portuguese accounts by Ferrand (J.4., 1918). In
JR.A.S.M.B., 1935, R. O. Winstedt published a connected
history of Malay from the earliest times to the 19th century.
It contains a chapter on the Hindu period based on the
researches of Coedés and Krom. Recently R. C. Majumdar
has given (Suoarnadvipa, Parts 1 & Il) a complete account of
the history and culture of Malay from the earliest times to
the end of Hindu rule in the peninsula. Based on the resear-
ches of previous scholars, it attempts the solution of many
f the unsolved problems of Ancient Malayan history.

‘CEYLON

The island of Ceylon, the Sihaladvipa of the Pali
Chronicles, was converted to Buddhism by Asoka's mission-
aries during the reign of its King Devanampiya Tissa.
Under this pious king and his equally pious successors like
Dutthagamani, (101-77 B.C.) Watthagamani Abhaya (c. 100-
76 B.C.) and Mahasena (277-304 A.D.), Anuradhapura, the
Ceylonese capital and a “veritable Buddhist Rome," was
adorned with magnificent structures like the Thuparima
dagaba, the Jetavana vihdra (which is the largest of its kind
even in Ceylon and stands on a stone platform nearly 8 acres
in extent), and the Lohapasada or the “Brazen Tower”
(originally constructed as a monastery of nine stories of
which the still existing foundations comprise 1600 mono-
Kiths 12’ high and extend over an area of 250 square miles).
Taken and plundered by the Pandyas, Anuradhapura was
abandoned for Polonnaruwa (otherwise called Kalingapura

Google .
136 U, N. GHOSHAL.

or Pulastipura) which remained the Ceylonese capital from
the 9th to the middle of the 13th century, Among its splen-
did monuments are the Thuparama, the “‘Northern™ temple
adorned with frescoes and the Jetavana monastery with
Lankatilaka ‘‘the largest Buddhist temple in Ceylon,” all of
which are attributed to the greatest of the Sinhalese kings,
Parakkamabahu I (1164-97 A.D.).

The beginnings of the scientific study of Sinhalese archae-
ology can be traced back to the seventies of the last century,
when the first Archaeological Commissioner was appointed
in the person of P. Goldschmid who has been called “the
founder of Ceylonese epigraphy.” To the same period goes
back the foundation of the Colombo Museum through the
enlightened efforts of Sir William Gregory, Governor of
Ceylon (1872-77 A.D.). At the same time T. W. Rhys
Davids published the first connected account of Sinhalese
coinage (Ancient Coins and Measures of Ceylon, 1877).
To Edward Miiler, Goldschmid’s successor as Archaeologi-
cal Commissioner, belongs the credit of issuing the first cor-
pus of Sinhalese inscriptions (Ancient Inscriptions of Ceylon
collected and published for Government by Dr. Edward
Miiller, 2 vols., London 1883). To this period also belongs
the foundation (1882) by T. W. Rhys Davids of the renown-
ed Pali Text Society, which has since earned the gratitude
of all lovers of Indian culture by its magnificent series of
publications of Pali canonical as well as non-canonical texts
with a Jarge number of translations. What high regard was
entertained towards these texts by the promoters of the
Society will best appear from the following extract quoted
from their prospectus :—‘‘For the period c. 400-250 B.C. they
have preserved for us a record quite uncontaminated by fil-
trations through any European mind of the everyday beliefs
and customs of a people nearly related to ourselves, just as
they were passing through the first stage of civilisation.
They are our best authorities for the early history of that
interesting system of religion so nearly allied to some of the
latest speculations among ourselves and which has influenced
0 powerfully and for so long a time so large a portion of the

Google
PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN RESEARCH. 137

human race — the system of religion which we now called
Buddhism.” In the last decade of the 19th century and the
first decade of the present, important steps were taken
‘towards the advance of Sinhalese archaeological studies.
The Ceylon Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society commenced
the issue of its Journal from the close of the last century.
A valuable set of drawings of archaeological remains in
Anuradhapura prepared by J. G. Smither as far back as
1877 was published by order of the Government of Ceylon
in 1894. The Archaeological Survey of Ceylon was founded
in 1890, and H. C, P. Bell distinguished his long term of
office (1890-1912) as Archaeological Commissioner by practi-
cally exhuming the dead city of Anuradhapura, by clearing
and restoring the fortress-city of Sigiriya and by excavating
the main group of buildings of Parakkamabahu’s palace at
Polonnaruwa, Among the notable buildings described and
illustrated by him in his valuable series of Annual Reports
of the Archaeological Survey of Ceylon may be mentioned
the Siva shrine at Polonnaruwa built in the IIth or 12th cen-
tury, as well as the circular shrine and the seven-storied
tower built at the same city by King Nissanka Malla in the 12th
century, The second of these structures was described by
him as ‘the most beautiful specimen of Buddhist stone archi-
tecture existing in Ceylon.’ Meanwhile Don Martino de
Zilva Wickremasinghe appointed Epigraphist to the
Ceylonese Government in 1899, published the first volume
of the Epigraphia Zeylanica (1904-1912) containing the texts
and translations of a large number of new inscriptions. In
the following years Vol. Il, 1912-28 and Vol. Ill, Part I,
(1928) of the Epigraphia Zeylanica were published by the
same scholar. In the former volume is included a valuable
Chronological Table of Ceylon Kings from Vijaya (483-445
B.C.) down to Sri Vikrama Rajasirnha (1798-1815 A.C). In
1909 H. Parker, who had served for thirty-one years in the
Inigation Department of Ceylon, published his important
work Ancient Ceylon giving minute accounts of the lost
cities of Ceylon as well as the ancient dagabas, inscriptions
and coins and the earliest irrigation-works, The interpreta-

Google
138 U. N. GHOSHAL

tion of Sinhalese art was furthered by the valuable writings
of A, K. Coomaraswamy, Mediaeval Sinhalese Art (London
1908), Mahayanist Buddhist images from Ceylon and Java
U.R-AS., 1909), Bronzes of Ceylon (Memoirs of the
Colombo Museum, Vol. 1, Colombo 1914). To the same
acholar belongs the credit of identifying (Spolia Zeylanica,
VI. 1909) the wonderful seated figure of the Isurumuniya
Vihara at Anuradhapura with the sage Kapila well-known to
Indian legend as the consumer of King Sagara's sons.
During the last twenty years the study of Sinhalese art
and archaeology has made steady progress. In the third
decade of this century A. M, Hocart as Archaeological Com-
missioner published the results of his archaeological explora-
tion and research in successive Annual Reports of the
Archaeological Survey of Ceylon. He also edited three
volumes of Memoirs of this Survey of which the first
{Colombo 1924) dealt with the monuments of Anuradhapura,
the second (Colombo 1926) principally with those of
Polonnaruwa and the third (London 1931) with the temple
of the Tooth in Kandy. As editor of the Ceylon Journal of
Science, Section G. Archaeology, Ethnology, ete., (Vol. I,
1924-28, Vol. II, 1928-33) he published numerous notes on the
art and archaeology, not only of Ceylon but also of India
proper. Of special interest are his attempts to trace the obs-
cure history of Sinhalese sculpture and architecture according
to types and to estimate the extent of Indian influence upon
the same. For the recent advance in Sinhalese archaeology
the credit is mostly due to S, Paranavitana, Epigraphic
Assistant to the Archaeological Commissioner, In 1934 and
1935 he excavated the remains of a stiipa (which he identi-
fied as the Kantaka Chetiya of ante Ist century B.C.) at
Mibintale. It ranks among the earliest st#pas in the island,
and its sculptures are counted among the earliest remains
of Sinhalese plastic art. Its well preserved basement had
four projections at the cardinal points reminiscent of the
type of the Andhra monuments of the Krgna valley, which
were adored with fine friezes of Harnsas and Ganes and
were flanked by sculptured stelae surmounted by figurea of

Google
PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN RESEARCH 139

elephants, lions, bulls and horses. (See Paranavitana, Exca-
vation of the Kantaka Chetiya at Mihintale, A.B.I.A., 1934).
A detailed account of the archaeological excavations carried
out at Anuradhapura during the years 1928-29 and 1932-33
was given by the same scholar in his monograph The Exca-
vations in the Citadel of Anurddhapura (Memoirs of the
Archaeological Survey of Ceylon, Vol. IV, Colombo 1936).
Among the buildings exposed during these excavations was
a unique structure of the 8th century A.D. having a square
plan and a projection from the middle of each face, of
which the prototype has since been sought (S. K. Saraswati
in J.G.LS., IV) in East Indian temples. To the Ceylon
Journal of Science, Sec. G, Vol. II, Paranavitana contributed
a valuable Archaeological Summary showing that the earliest
stiipas of Ceylon followed the Indian model consisting of the
harmmiké and above it an umbrella or series of umbrellas in
stone supported by stone posts, but that about the fifth
century A.D. there was developed the cylindrical structure
above the harmmtika and above that again the tapering spire
which was nothing but the old chhatravali with the space
between the umbrellas filled with brick-work. To the
same Journal he contributed a valuable paper on Maha-
varism in Ceylon proving from archaeological and literary
evidence the prevalence (from the 3rd to the 15th centuries)
of various forms of Mahayana (including the Tantrik
Vajrayana) and tracing the survival of Mahayana in Ceylonese
Buddhism at the present day. As editor of the Epigraphia
Zeylanica, Vol. Ill, Pts. 2-6 (1929-33) onwards Parana-
vitana has published numerous inscriptions ranging from
the pre-Christian to late mediaeval times. Among these
are a large number of ‘cave-inscriptions’ written in Indian
Prakrit and in Brahmi script mentioning the names of donors
of caves to the Buddhist sarngha (See Paranavitana, Brahmi
inscriptions recently discovered in Ceylon, A.B.I.A., 1934
and Epigraphical discoveries in Ceylon during the year
1935, A.B.I.A., 1935), Some of these donors have been
identified with the Ceylonese kings of the Ist century before
and after Christ mentioned in the chronicles. A set of 91

a \

Google
140 U. N. GHOSHAL

Sanskrit inscriptions engraved on copper-plaques and

ining fragments of the PajichavirhSatisahasrika Pri
Paramita was brought to light by the same scholar from the
ruins of a stipa (Epigraphia Zeylanica, Vol.III). Another
scholar who deserves mention in this connection is H. W.
Codrington. Besides contributing important papers on the
archaeology of Ceylon, he published a comprehensive
account of Sinhalese coinage from the earliest to the recent
times in his standard work called Ceylon Coins and Currency,
(Colombo 1924).

As regards the branch of Ceylonese art, A. K. Coomara-
ewamy in his comprehensive work, History of Indian and
Indonesian Art (London, 1927), traced for the first time in
broad outline the development of Sinhalese art through the
‘classical’ (ante 8th century), the ‘mediaeval’ (%h-I4th
centuries) and the ‘late mediaeval’ (15th century-1815 A.D.)
periods. In Vincent A. Smith's work A History of Fine Art
in India and Ceylon, (2nd edition, Oxford, 1930) the main
types of Sinhalese architecture and sculpture have been
sought to be distinguished and interesting comparisons have
been made with the Indian types. In his paper (in French)
called Pala and Sena Art in Outer India (Etudes d’Orienta-
lisme Linossier, pp. 277-285). Réne Grousset has traced the
influence of Pala and Sena art upon the sculptures of Ceylon.
A number of art objects—bas-reliefs, sculptures in the round
and architectural fragments—found at Anuradhapura,
Polonnaruwa, Sigiriya and other sites during recent times
have been proved by S. Paranavitana (Examples of
Andhra Art recently found in Ceylon, A.B.I.A., 1936) to be
products of the Andhra schools of Amaravati and Nagar-
junikonda.

Lastly, as regards the general history of Ceylon and the
history of Ceylonese culture, we may begin by mentioning
H. W. Codrington’s work A Short History of Ceylon,
(London 1926) which traces the history of the island from the
earliest times to 1833 A.D. It has a prefatory note on the
chronology of Ceylon and a list of its sovereigns and it con-
cludes with a chapter on archaeology from the pen of A. M.

Google
PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN RESEARCH 141

Hocart. More recently G. C. Mendis has published The
Early History of Ceylon (4th ed. Y.M.C.A, Publishing House,
Calcutta, 1940) giving within a short compass the political
as well as cultural history of the island from the earliest
times to the close of the 5th century. Coming to another
point, we may mention that the relations of the Imperial
Cholas with Ceylon have been fully studied by K. A.
Nilakanta Sastri (The Cholas, Vol. 1, Madras, 1935) in the
light of Tamil as well as Sinhalese documents. The old
Sinhalese revenue system has been described by H. W.
Codrington in his work Ancient Land Tenure and Revenue
in Ceylon (Colombo 1938). Above all, W. Geiger in a series
of papers called Contributions from the Mahavarhsa to our
knowledge of the mediaeval culture of Ceylon (J.G.1S., vol.
Il, No. 2; vol. Ill, No. 2; vol. IV, No. 2; vol. V, Nos, 1-2,
July 1935-July 1938) has utilised the important data from
the great Sinhalese Chronicle to illustrate fully the
nature of kingship, administration and social life in the
island down to mediaeval times.”

ADDITIONS,

Page 70 line 34:—Add, In B.S.O.S. VIII, Pt. 1 1935,
H. W. Bailey and E, H. Johnston have jointly edited a
fragment of the Sanskrit Uttaratantra (one of the fundamen-
tal books of Northern Buddhfem which is ascribed to

* In tho above review the chapters relating to China, Japan
and Korea have been left out for considerations of space. It is
proposed to fill up this gap in a separate paper in the near
future. The present paper is expected to be published in the
Tubilee number of the Annals of the Bhandarkar Oriental Re-
search Institute, Poona, as it was originally undertaken at the
request of Dr. R. N. Dandekar, the Honorary Secretary of the
Institute. For kind permission to reproduce it simultaneously
in the JGIS., the Managing Committee of the Greater India
Society expresses its grateful thanks to the authorities of the
Institute. The Society takes this opportunity to thank its sister
institution for the hospitality extended to its then Honorary
Secretary, Dr. Kalidas Nag, who had the privilege of delivering
an illustrated lecture on Greater India at the premises of the Ins-
titute in 1929 with H, E, the Governor of Bombay in the chair,

Google
142 U, N. GHOSHAL

Maitreya) with Khotanese Saka annotations from the Stein
Collection of Mss, at the India Offfte.

Page 71 line 31:—Add—In B.S.O.S. VII, Pts, ILI
(1936), T. Burrow has compared the dialect of the Kharo-
gtht documents from Niya (representating the administrative
Janguage of the Shan-shan kingdom in the 3rd century A.D.)
with those of the Kharogthi versions of Agoka’s 14 Rock
Edicts, the later Kharogthi inscriptions of North-Western
India, the Kharosthi Ms. of the Dhammapada and a Kharo-
gthi Ms. from Endere (representing the language of Khotan)
He concludes by pointing out that of all the modern Dardic
languages, Torwali bears the closest resemblance to the
Niya Prakrit. In the same Journal (loc. cit.) Sten Konow
has sought to trace parallels between the language of the
Kharogthi Dhammapada and of the Kharosthi documents
of the Stein Collection on the one hand and the modem
Dardic languages on the other. Valuable studies in the
language of the Kharogthi documents of Chinese Turkestan
have also been made by T. Burrow (Tokharian elements in
the Kharosthi documents of Chinese Turkestan, J.R.A.S.
1935) and H. Liiders (Zur Schrift und Sprache der Kharo-
ethi-dokumente, B.S.O.S. VIII, Pts. 2-3).

Page 76, line 37:—Add. The Alambanaparikea of
Dinaga has since been edited in its restored Sanskrit form
with an accompanying English translation and notes and
copious extracts from Dharmapila’s commentary by M.
Aiyaswami Sastri (The Adyar Library, Madras, 1942).

Page 77, line 25: Add—Some valuable hints for the
collection of materials for a Tibetan bibliography are given
by Andrew Vostrikov in his paper. Some Corrections and
critical remarks on Dr. Johan van Manen’s Contribution to
the Bibliography of Tibet (B.S.O.S. VIII, Pt. 1, 1935).

Google
NOTICES OF BOOKS

The Law of War and Peace in Islam:—a study in
Muslim International Law—by Majid Khadduri, Ph.D.,
Teachers’ College, Baghdad. (Luzac & Co. London 1941):

The author confines his attention to the survey of ex-
ternal relations of the Arab Muslims with neighbouring
peoples during the first four centuries of the Islamic era,
but leaves out of account the Muslims of Spain and the
most interesting episodes of the conflict between Islam
and Christianity, between the East and the West, during
the Crusades. Thus we get a somewhat bald and dry
description of the early Islamic State which had very little
time to bother about Laws in an age when their violation
was more of a rule than an exception. The major part
of the book is devoted to the discussion of the Law of
War in Islam, already discussed by Mon. Clement Huart
(Le Droit de la Guerre: Revue du Monde Musulman, 1907).
In @ section on The Law of Peace the author attempts to
demonstrate that the Islamic conquerors were about to
develop some conventions with regard to Treaty, Arbitra-
tion, Statys etc. in relation to the non-Muslim peoples.
But he admits that ‘‘in its origin Muslim international law
was only a temporary institution untill the whole World
should be Islamic. If the mission of Islam, therefore,
were wholly carried out, the raison d’ étre of a Muslim
International Law would be non-existent.” With such a
psychology and historical background it would be difficult
to expect a phenomenal growth of international law pro-
perly 80 called. But we know that early Islam under the
Caliphs developed, through war and conquest, exte:
international relations which should be surveyed histori-
cally if not legally, against the hoary traditions of the
Persian and the Eastern Roman Empires. The author
could not undertake such a comparative study and has
given us instead an interesting but restricted survey of the
foreign relations of the Eastern Caliphate, He has given

Google
144 NOTICES OF BOOKS

an excellent bibliography of the early Arabic sources
together with a list of secondary works and articles and
monographs in French, German, Italian and English. He
refers to the rule of “Diplomatic immunity” (corresponding
to our ancient Indian data as inviolable abadhya) going
back as early asthe days of the Prophet Muhammad; but
we should expect many such tribal laws or custome going
even to early pre-Islamic days which have not been ex-
plored by the author.
Kalidas Nag

East and West:—by Rene Guénon. Translated by
William Massey. (Luzac & Co., London 1941). Rs. 3]-.

The title of the book is banal, but its contents as well
as the personality of the author is a direct challenge to
the Western World. Mon. Guénon joined issues not only
with the orthodox Philosophers of France but with the
professional European ‘“‘Orientalists,"” when he published
about 20 years ago, his L’ Homme et son devenir selon le
Vedanta.” He has published since then, The Crisis of
the Modern World, Introduction to the Study of Hindu
Doctrines and many other books. But the most challeng-
ing work of his, we think, would be his East and West
which we recommend to all serious students of philosophy
and culture-history. Over a century ago Hegel character-
ized things .“‘Oriental’’ as per se grotesque, disproportion-
ate and unbalanced as compared with the ‘‘classical’’ norm.

Guénon who boldly demonstrates that western ci
and progress are not necessary concomittants, that like
many other superstitions the westerners are ‘still domi-
nated by the superstitions of Science and Life. He exposes
the “imaginary terrors and the real dangers’ of modern
existence and exhorts us to rediscover the eternal tradi-
tions of the East without which modern man could not
hope to rise above occidental “sentimentality”’ of thought,
into the region of changeless endless Truth. His ‘‘Orient’*
is not merely geographical, but metaphysical; and he tries

Google
NOTICES OF BOOKS 145

to inculcate upon us the efficacy ‘of organizing the Elects
in spirit, however small in number, so that those ceers
may save benighted mankind from complete disaster, born
of Greed and Illusion. East alone seems to have pre-
served a continuity of that glorious Tradi of serving
Humanity silently like the Rgis of our Indian Tapovana
hermitages. The true and abiding rapprochement between
the East and the West cannot result from a crude Theo-
sophical type of “fusion,” but from real understanding of
the fundamental unity of being which was the greatest
discovery of Vedantic India. The book will shock many,
but may cure also like a galvanic battery of spirit. -

Kalidas Nag

The Ramayana Polity:—by Miss P.C. Dharma, M.A, .
D.Litt. With Foreword by the Rt. Hon. V. S. Srinivasa
Sastri, Madras, 1941. Pp. ix+ 102.

In this short monograph which won for the authoress
the Doctorate degree of the Madras University, she claims
to have worked up the hitherto neglected data in the
Ramayana into a description of ‘‘the polity that existed
during the period subsequent to the Vedic and preceding
the Bharata period,” We may at once concede that the
authoress has honestly striven to deal with almost all the
aspects of the polity falling within her cognizance. This
will sufficiently appear from the titles of her chapters, viz.,
General Introduction, System of Government, The Central
Administration, The Ministry, Permanent Higher Officials,
Revenue Administration, Administration of Law and Justice,
Local Administration and Military Organization. To the
credit of the authoress it must also be said that she has
spared no pains in collecting materials from her single
source-book and has tried to explain their place in the
general scheme of evolution of the Hindu Polity. Never-
theless, we have regretfully to admit our inability to accept
much of her interpretation of her source-book as well as of
the data collected therefrom. To begin with the chrono-

Google
146 NOTICES OF BOOKS

logical setting and significance of the Ramayai the
accepts the exploded theory of an “Epic Age” (wl she
further subdivides into the Ramayana and the Mahabharata
periods) intervening between the Vedic and the Buddhi
periods: the Ramayana is in her opinion ‘‘a biographical
sketch’ (sic) of Rama (p. 1) and is a unique contemporary
work (p. 2) dating most probably from “‘the 6th to the 8th
century B.C.” (sic) (p. 5). Against this alleged extreme
antiquity of Valmiki’s Epic, it enough to refer to its
metre and diction as well as its historical references to
Sakae and Yavanas (1.55).

Turning to the contents of the present work, we must
say that while the structure of this polity has been suffi-
ciently dealt with, its functions have not received their
full measure of attention. What is still more regrettable,
. many of the conclusions in this work appear to be based
on unproved assumptions or at best insufficient evidence.
Witness, e.g., the categorial statement (p. 12) that “the
form of government during the Ramayana period wi
limited monarchy,” which is based on alleged checks like
“the people’s voice in the choice of their king, the limita-
tions imposed upon him by the coronation-oath and the
king's dependence on the ministry and the various repre-
sentative assemblies of the people’’ (p. 96). Witness, again,
the confident assertion of ‘‘the King’s proprietorship in
the land” based on no better evidence than a poetical
hyperbole (p. 30). Turning to another point, we must
say that the authoress’s rendering of the technical terms
according to modern terminology is often unconvincing:
Cf. p. 36 where paurajdnapada is taken to mean (on the
authority of the late K. P. Jayaswal) a representative body
consisting of representatives of inhabitants of the capital
city and the countryside, and p. 47 where the body of
Amatyas is translated as ‘Cabinet,” On p. 58, the main
sources of revenue are stated to be ‘“‘taxes, tributes and
royalties,"” but the first is based on a very loose rendering
of the revenue-term bali which means in the Smritis and
Epics the land-revenue and nothing else (the authoress’s

Google
NOTICES OF BOOKS 147

, translation as profits bears no scrutiny). In this connexion,
it may be pointed out that contradictions are by no means
uncommon in the present work, e.g., the statement about
the constitutional position of the monarch (p. 12) is accom-
panied with the observation (pp. 18-19) that the King’s
office was divine and the King himself was considered to
be of divine origin, similarly the sabha is described (p. 35)
as a Popular Assembly corresponding to “‘the present-day
Parliament or Legislative Assembly” (sic), while its compo:
tion is said (p. 36) to be made up of officials as well as
non-offici again we are told (p. 95) that “from the
Vedic period onwards monarchy was consolidating itself
as the normal form of government,” while later down on
the same page occurs the statement that ‘‘during the
Buddhistic period we find the republican form of govern-
ment flourishing."’ Finally it may be asked why the
authoress has followed only one recension of the Rama-
yana to the complete exclusion of all other recensions.

U. N. Ghoshal

Google
EDITORIAL NOTES

The Managing Committee of the Greater India Society
acknowledges with thanks the receipt of the usual donation
of Rs. 100/- only for this year from Dr. Narendra Nath
Law who has been a benefactor of the Society for many
years past.

. . . . .

Owing to the prevailing war conditions the Annual
Meeting of the members of Greater India Society has un-

avoidably been postponed for better times.
. . . . .

The Managing Committee of the Greater India Society
has received with the deepest regret the news of the
lamented deaths of Messrs. Sarat Kumar Ray and Hirendra
Nath Datta. Mr. Ray’s numerous publications on the pri-
mitive tribes of Chota Nagpur placed him in the front rank
of Indian anthropolo; The well-known Journal Man
in India, which he edited with conspicuous ability from
its very foundation, has been on the exchange list of the
IGIS. for several years. Mr. Datta, who had a University
career of exceptional brilliance, occupied a very high place
among the litterateurs and inkers of modern Bengal
through his numerous publications on religion, philosophy
and literature, and was, besides, an accomplishe
He was the life and soul of many a learned
In paying its respectful homage to his honoured memory,
the Society recalls with gratitude the invaluable service
he rendered in connection with the yearly grants of the
National Council of Education, Bengal.

Google
the
the

2
3

ware

ADDITIONS TO THE LIBRARY

The Greater India Society acknowledges with thanks
receipt of the following periodicals and books during
last six months. :

Periodicals
Adyar Library Publication (Brahma-vidya), vol. VI,
Part 2.
Bulletin of the School of Oriental Studies, vol. X, Part 3.
Bulletin of the Deccan College Research Institute, vol-
Ill, Nos. 2, 3, 4.
Indian Historical Quarterly, vol. XVII, No. 4; vol. XVIII,
Nos, 3 and 4.
Journal of the Assam Research Society; vol. VII, Nos. 3
and 4,
Man in India, vol XXII, No. 1.
Nagari Pracharini Patrika, vol. 46, No. 4; vol. 47, No. I.
Nagpur University Journal, December, 1940.
Quarterly Journal of the Mythic Society, vol. XXXII,
No. 2.
Books, pamphlets etc.
The Law of War and Peace in Islam. By Majid Khad-
duri. Luzac & Co., London, 1941.
East and West. By René Guénon, Translated by
William Massey Luzac & Co., London, 1941.
The Ramayana Polity. By Miss P. C. Dharma. Mad-
ras, 1941.
Annual Bibliography of Indian History and Indology,
Vol II for 1939. By Braz A. Fernandes. Bombay, 1941.
Palni the Sacred Hill of Muruga. By J. M, Somasun-
daram. Bombay, 1941.
Early History of the Andhra country. By K. Gopalachari,
Madras University Historical Series No. 16., University
of Madras, 1941.
A Study on the Chronicles of Ladakh (Indian Tibet).
By Dr. Luciano Petech. Calcutta, 1939.
Wayfarer’s Words, Vol. Il. By Mrs. Rhys Davids,
Luzac & Co., London, 1942.
Arabia & Islamica. By U. Wayriffe. Luzac & Co.,
London, 1940.

Google
Printed and Published by J. C. Sarkhel, at the Calcutta Oriental Press, Led,
9, Panchanan Ghose Lane, Caloutea.

arses» Google universe

by O, UNI

