JOURNAL

GREATER: INDIA SOCIETY 5

+ Select Contents of Oriental Journals :
Books Recelved : 7

JULYs1939

. EDITED’ BY
“SU. N. GHOSHAL

Articles : Pace
Contributions from the Mabavamsa to our knowledge of the

Mediaeval Culture of: Ceylon (Wilhelm Geiger) 8.
Early Traces of Buddhism in Burma (Nihar-Ranjan Ray)... Po)
The Copperplate of Barabudur: 828 Saka (HL. B. Sarkar) .. ve 124
Miscellany : .
Recent Researches on Indo-European. Fauna (Bata Krishna Ghosh)... 130
Recent, Advances in Kambuja Studies (B. R. Chatterjee)... ve 138
views :
J. S. Furntvate, Netherlands India (B. N. Bawenjee); B.C. Law,
Concepts of Buddhism (D.); K. Régamey, The Bhadramaya- :

kara-vytharana (N. D.); R. C.. Mayumpar, Suvarnadvipa,
Part Il (U. N. Gxostiat); Uittreksel wit de Ondheidkundig
Verslagen over 1931-35 (H. B, Sarkar); Een Ondbeidkundig
Inbilenm, 1913-1938 (H. B. Sesna) .

Comment and Criticism :

Published by
HE GREATER INDIA SOCIETY, CALCUTTA
Ageats outside India—
Messrs, LUZAC &.CO., 46 Great Russell Street, London w.c.
Annual subscription—Rs. 48 or 85-6d., including postage.

Google Li

»$ -
Yo)
= ENF

Si GREATER INDIA SOCIETY
AIMS AND OBJECTS
organize the study of Indian culture in Greater India __[i.e-
Ea ia, India Minor, Indo-China and Insulindi: as well as
“2@ in China, Korea, Japan and other countries of Asia.
2. To arrange for the publication of the results of researches into the
history ‘of India’s spiritual and cultural relations with the outside
3. To create an interest in the history of Greater India and connected
problems among the students in the schools, colleges and Univer-
sities of India by instituting a aystematic study of those subjects and
to take proper steps to stimulate the same.
“4. To popularise the knowledge of Greater India by organising mass
meetings, lantern lectures, exhibitions and conferences.
MEMBERSHIP RULES~ .

. The annual subscription payable by the members is Rs. 12/- only.
Members are entitled to receive thf publications of the Society at
concession rates and copies of the Journal of the Society free of cost.
For rates of advertisements, etc.
Apply to the Manager,
GREATER INDIA SOCIETY,‘
21, Badurbagan Row,
P. O, Amherst Street, Calcutta.

GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

PURODHA

Dr. Rabindranath Tagore.
PATRONS

Maharaja of Pithapuram, Sir.B. L. Mitter,
MANAGING COMMITTEE FOR 1030

President—Sir P. C. Ray, Kt.
. Hony. Secretary—Dr. U. N. Ghoshal, M.A. Ph.D.

Hony. Joint-Secretary—Dr. Kalidas Nag, M.A. D.Litt: (Paris).
Other members of the Committee—O.C. Gangoly, Esq.; Prof.
Suniti Kumar Chatterji, M.A. (Lond.); Dr. Prabodh
Chandra Bagchi, M.A. D. .); Dr. Nalinaksha
Dutt, M.A. D.Litt. (Lond.); Dr. endra Nath Law,
M. A. Ph, D. Prof. Vidhushekhara. Bhattacharya;
Jitendra Nath Banerjea, Esq., M. A.; Dr. Nihar Ranjan
Ray, h-D., D. Litt.( n).
Journal ‘Sub-Committee _ for 1939—Dre. U.N. Ghoshal,
~ Kalidas Nag, Narendra Nath Law, Nalinaksha Dutt,
and Suniti Kumar Chatterji.

Google

Ny o4d? -23Y

THE JOURNAL
GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

Vou. VI duty: 1939 No. 2

Contribution’ from the Mahavamsa to our

knowledge of the Mediaeval Culture
of Ceylon

By Dr. WILHELM GEIGER
(Continued from J.G.I.S. Vol. V, No. 2.)
VI. SETTLEMENT—VILLAGES AND TOWNS

79. The Aryan colonisation of Ceylon had a purely agri-
cultural character. The first settlements were a number of
small villages (gama) founded by the leaders of the Aryan
immigrants in the fifth century B.c, There are two different
traditions concerning this event in the chronicle. Accord-
ing to Mahavamea 7.39, 43-45 it was Vijaya who founded
Tambanninagara, whilst his companions built the villages
Anuradhagama, Upatissagama, Ujjeni, Uruvela and Vijita-
nagara. But according to 9. 9-11 the villages Ramagama,
Anuradhagama, Uruvela, Vijitagama, Dighayu (gama), and
Rohana were founded by six Sakya princes, the brothers of
Bhaddakaccana who was the consort of the second king
Panduvasudeva.

The historical kernel of these traditions may be the fact
that the first stream of immigrants who, led by Vijaya, came
from N.-W. India, was soon followed by another stream from

Google
82 WILHELM GEIGER

N.-E. India. But all these settlements had the character of
villages, and it seems that they could be called nagara or
pura, if they were in any way fortified and might serve as
refuge in times of danger. The necessity of a fortification
may sometimes have been felt, if the village was exposed to
assaults of the wild aboriginal inhabitants of the island. But
among the oldest settlements there are only two, the names
of which end in nagara: Tambapanni and Vijitanagara,
and the latter name alternates with Vijitagai According
to the description in 25.28 it was indeed fortified. It had
three trenches and was guarded by a high wall and furnish-
ed with iron-shod gates. Nevertheless, we are certainly
justified in saying that at the beginning of the medieval
period of Sinhalese history there existed in Ceylon, with the
only exception of Anuradhapura, hardly any settlement
which had the character of a town. Anuradhapura itself
which was founded by the fourth traditional king Panduka-
bhaya near old Anuradhagama, and which was from that
time onwards the centre of the Aryan colony and the royal
residence, could be called pura, because it was fortified
with wall and trenches.

In the whole of the ancient Mahavamsa, apart from
Tambapanninagara and Vijitanagara, only six names of
settlements are met with, which end in nagara, and among
them two, Kalahanagara and Pajjotanagara, are expressly
designated as villages (10.425 25.51).

The Aryan immigrants came to Ceylon with the intention
to found a new home where they could earn their livelihood
by agriculture. But they forthwith came across a serious
difficulty. The main corn cultivated in India was rice, but
in Ceylon rice can be produced in sufficient quantities only
where the yearly rainfall is over 75 inches. This is the case
in the hilly country and in the south-western districts. But
according to the tradition it was not these wet parts of the
island that were first colonised by the Aryan immigrants, but
the low-country and up-country north of the mountains.
‘The Aryans came ashore in all probability somewhere on the

Google
wf

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 83

north-western coast between Mannar and Puttalam, so that
they had before them the flat land which corresponds to the
modern North-Central Province, and they settled there.
The tradition is plausible, for the hilly country was too
difficult of access, and in the south-western districts cultiva-
tion was checked by frequent and tremendous floods of the
rivers. These parts of Ceylon came only later under the
control of the Aryan colonists after they had establishec
their rule in the more accessible open districts. But just in
these districts where the Aryans first settled, the rainfall is
only between 50 and 75 inches in a year, and they are also
subject to periodical drought so that the wells become ex-
hausted and the necessary supply of drinkable water is
sometimes lacking in the hottest months.

Thus the Aryan colonists were from the very outset
compelled to construct storage tanks in order to accumulate
the surplus of the rain-water that had fallen during the wet
months, for the watering of the paddy fields in the dry
season. We may me that Pandus were their teachers
and helpers in that task. This fact is pointed to by the tradi-
tion itself. For we learn from Mahavamsa 7.48 sq. that at
the request of Vijaya the Pandu king did not only send to
Ceylon maidens as wives for Vijaya and his companions,
but also workmen (pessiya-karake) and many families
of the various guilds, i.e. numerous artisans and
craftsmen who were able to assist the Aryans in their
undertakings. He probably hoped to extend his dominion
over the Island with the help of those Aryan adventurers as
pioneers.

80. The first.tanks in ancient times seem to have been
built by a group of families who were related with one
another. They cleared the forest and built near the tank
the huts which served as domicile for the single families.
Such was the origin of a primitive Sinhalese village commu-
nity (gama). But the fields attached to a village and watered
from the same tank, were not common property of the
families who had erected the tank, but were divided into

Google
84 WILHELM GEIGER

shares, each being cultivated by one family. This type of
a Sinhalese village remained the same during the medieval
period.

Now in Mahavamsa 10.103 we come across the short
notice that king Pandukabhaya, about a century after the
first colonisation, fixed the village-boundaries over the
whole of the Island. This notice is important, for it seems to
mean that at an early time a certain land-tenure was estab-
lished in Ceylon which in course of centuries gradually
developed into the complicated system prevailing from the
medieeval period up to the present time. It would be
beyond the scope of my work to enter into the details of
that system, for the knowledge of which H. W. Codring-
ton’s Ancient Land Tenure and Revenue, Colombo, 1938
(together with de Lanerolle’s criticism and comment in the
Journ. of the Roy. As. Soc., Ceylon Br. March, 1939) may
be consulted. It will be sufficient for our purpose to
elucidate the principles on which the whole system is based
and which are reflected in the historical facts and in the
administrative regulations.

The fundamental idea, according to my opinion was
the maxim that the king is the proprietor of the whole
land. It is from this point of view that the administration
of the kingdom becomes intelligible (cf. above 44 8q.,
J. G. 1. S., Vol. V. 1 sq.) Indeed, every progress of
cultivation is under royal control. No new tank can be
constructed nor any new village built without the permission
of the magistrates who are the substitutes of the king.
With this permission the king cedes a part of his property
to the colonists, but the latter do not become proprietors,
but only occupiers of the new colony. Not even timber
can be fetched from the ownerless forest or a chena
cultivation laid out in the wilderness without official sanc-
tion, The king may even present a village to one of his
officials either as salary for his service or as reward for a
single meritorious action. In this case he cedes his own
rights concerning the village to the bhikkhu community or

Google
CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 85

to the official. But he nevertheless continues to be the
proprietor, for the privilege can be withdrawn, as soon as
it pleases the king. Lands dedicated to religious institu-
tions, however, were always service-free, and thus monas-
teries could become great landed proprietors.

81. There can be no doubt that a medieval village
in Ceylon did not differ in appearance from a modern
jungle village situated in a district which is not much in-
fluenced by European civilisation. The attractive and
really charming picture of such a peaceful village drawn by
H. Parker in the introduction to his Village Folk-tales
of Ceylon would also perfectly suit a village of the
medizeval period, Many centuries have passed without
altering the character of an Indian village and the life of
its inhabitants. The fields watered from the tank were a
pleasant oasis within the gloomy wilderness. The houses
or rather huts of the villagers were lying near the tank.
They were thatched with straw or plaited cocoanut leaves,
the walls made of clayed twigs. Each family had its own
house and round it a small garden with a few fruit-bearing
trees, cocoanut and arecapalms, bananas and mangoes.
The villages were generally open, but sometimes, when
they were infested by wild beasts, enclosed with a fence
of On his way to Gajabahu's kingdom prince
Parakkamabahu came to such a village. His companions
could not penetrate the enclosure, because it was full of
terrible prickles, but the prince broke fearlessly through
the fence and entered the village.

Villages in favourable situation could grow into market-
places (nigama) where the neighbouring villagers would
purchase from traders or craftsmen the articles necessary
for their work and di life. The people living in such
larger villages were called negama, but this word is also
simply used onym with janapada, country people in
contrast with the inhabitants of a town.

82. The number of tanks and rural settlements was
immense in Ceylon, and it appears to have been consider-

Google
86 WILHELM GEIGER

ably larger at a certain period, at least, than it is at present.
Thousands of ruined or abandoned tanks have been dis-
covered in the wilderness and were mapped out by the
Survey, but the villages which aforetime stood near these
tanks have disappeared, and the fields which had been
watered from them are overgrown with jungle.

The apparent decline of agricultural activity has been
explained in different ways. Some assumed as its cause
the spreading of diseases like malaria, others catastrophes,
such as pernicious floods or lasting drought. The destruc-
tion of tanks happened, of course, often enough owing
either to an external accident or to the negligence of the
villagers. But! see the main problem not in the decay of
civilisation, but rather in the mere existence of such a vast
number of small tanks in the wilderness. This seems to
point to a temporary excess of population, but according
to my opinion it is connected with historical events, namely,
with the general insecurity and the political and economical
disturbance during the dynastic struggles after the death
of king Vijayabahu I (1114), and yet more after the invasion
and during the despotic rule of the usurper Magha (1214-
1233). I have the impression that the destructive influence
of these events on Sinhalese civilisation has not been suffi-
ciently taken into account.

From the graphic description in Mahavamsa 61. 48-72
and 80. 59-79 we learn that ‘in those times the best culti-
vated districts of the Island were recklessly devastated by
an undisciplined soldiery who corrupted the good morals of
the family, took away with violence the possessions of the
wealthy people, and maltreated priests and laymen in
every way.

It was in these times of fearful disorder and anarchy,
I believe, that many families through fear of the persecu-
tion they had to suffer left their homes and fled into the
forest, just as others found refuge on inaccessible rocks
which they fortified. Since those who sought for security
in the jungle came in great numbers, but in small groups,

Google

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 87

they constructed many but small tanks where they hoped
to find subsistence for themselves and their families,

Thus quite a new class of people arose in Ceylon who
may aptly be called the ‘Tank colonists.’ These were the
Vannis. It is certainly nota mere chance that this name
which seems to be connected with Vana ‘forest’ first occurs
in the chronicle in 81.17, just after the chapter in which
the misrule of Magha is described.

The tank colonists appear to have formed a separate
well-organised union within the kingdom. They had
their own headmen or ‘kings,’ and such Vanni kings existed
in Patittharattha (Northern Province) and in Rohana (South-
Eastern Province) and elsewhere (89. 51 sq.) i.e., wherever
there was jungle and forest. Vijayabahu III who later on
was the rival king of Maghi aid to have for fear of the
foe withdrawn to inaccessible forests. He dwelled there
for a long time and attained the royal dignity among the
Vannis (81. 10 sq.).

In the period of the Sinhalese renaissance which set in
after the death of Magha and which is chiefly connected
with the names of Vijayabahu and Parakkamabahu II, the
latter king id to have brought over to his side all the
Vanni kings dwelling here and there in mountain and
wilderness (83. 10; 87. 26, 52). The Vanni headmen
swore allegiance also to his son Vijayabahu IV and
delivered over to him their royal insignia (88. 87-88). They
also collected a large quantity of victuals to offer them to
the Buddhist community (89. 51 sq.)

The meaning of these stories is that in the thirteenth
century the Sinhalese kings after overcoming the external
foe did their utmost to restore the internal welfare of the
kingdom. Above all, it was necessary in the most produc-
tive ‘s of the Island to have cultivated anew the
fields laid waste during the times of disturbance. For this
purpose the assistance of skilful agriculturists was needed,
and hardly better helpers could be found than those tank
colonists who had learned to work under the most difficult

Google
88 WILHELM GEIGER

circumstances. The kings succeeded in bringing them
back from the wilderness and the small jungle tanks were
abandoned and neglected and ually went to ruin.
Vannis are no longer mentioned in the chronicle after the
beginning of the fourteenth century. In 90. 105 the
successor of Parakkamabahu IV is called Vanni-Bhuvaneka-
bahu (about 1333). It is obvious that he was the descen-
dant of one of those Vanni headmen.

Thus the construction of the numerous jungle tanks and
the Vannis found merely a romantic episode in the
cultural history of Ceylon. But of course not all the tank
colonists gave up their jungle life. Some of them remained
in the wilderness, chiefly those who had settled in the
remotest districts. There they became more and more
secluded from the other people and even quite isolated.
The last remnants are now the Vanniyds. | believe, there-
fore, in full accord with Mrs. Cook (C., p. 334) that the
Vanniyas by no means represent a separate race, but are
merely degenerated Sinhalese who for cent were cut
off from all connexion with the civilisation. In the year
1887 (Parker in Tapr. Febr. 1887, p. 15 sq.) their number
was not more than 500 in all. Most of them are living in
the northern part of the North-Central Province in small
hamlets consisting of primitive huts. A few only cultivate
paddy, the rest live by chena cultivation, hunting and
honey-collection. Although the other people speak of
them as Veddas, they themselves entirely deny such a
descent and look down with contempt on the Veddas.
They are all Buddhists and generally speak the Sinhalese
language. In Rohana there are no Vanniyas, and it will
not be long before the last Vannis will have disappeared.

83. Towns (nagara, pura) could come into existence
where tanks of larger dimensions were constructed and an
area of greater extent became cultivable so that proportion-
ally more people were able to earn their livelihood in such
places. Butit is noticeable that, at least in the earlier
centuries of the medizval period, we hear very little of

Google
CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 89

towns existing in Ceylon. A town like Devanagara, now
Dondra, is not mentioned before the eleventh century
(Mahavamsa 56. 6). No doubt a village began to get the
character of a town when it was fortified, and such
entrenched settlements may have existed here and there in
the Island. West of the Sigiri rock which a fortress
already in the fifth century (39. 2-3) fortifications can be
traced which must have enclosed something like a town.
A more open city seems to have been situated east of the
rock, and south of it a very old fortification, the Mapagala,
with Cyclopean walls. Such town-like settlements became
more frequent after the turbulent times of the thirteenth
century. They were built at the foot of those isolated
rocks which served as refuge; the rock itself was the
citadel within the settlement. Such an entrenchment
exists at the foot of the Subhagiri, now Yapahu,
and the later towns as Jambuddoni (81. 15 sq.) (now
Dambadeniya) and Hatthigiripura (90. 59) had a similar
character.

But if we are to describe a medieval Sinhalese town,
we are confined to Anuradhapura and Pulatthinagara, now
Polonnaruva. Here was the residence of the Sinhalese
kings and the seat of the Government—in Anuradhapura, as
we can generally say, up to the Cola invasion at the end of
the tenth century, and in Pulatthinagara from the end of
the eleventh to the end of the thirteenth century. These
towns were embellished with splendid buildings by the
kings, the former chiefly by Dutthagamani already in pre-
Christian times, the latter by Parakkamabahu I. We under-
stand, therefore, that the interest of the chroniclers was
entirely concentrated on them.

84. According to the older Pali literature and the
Jatakas in Buddhist times the cities in India were rec-
tangular, usually square, with four gates, one in the middle
of each wall, facing the four quarters, and four main
streets led from these gates to the centre of the city (A. K.
Coomaraswamy, Eastern Art Il, 1930, pp. 211-12).

2

Google
9” WILHELM GEIGER

As the remnants of its ancient walls show, the plan of
the city of Anuradhapura was the same. It had an extent
of about two-thirds of a mile from north to south and a
little less from east to west, forming a somewhat irregular
rectangle. The gates in the northern and southern walls
can be traced even now-a-days. The eastern gate appears
to have been approached from the ancient road which led
from Mihintale to Anuradhapura and crossed the Malvatu-
oya just near the middle of the eastern wall with a bridge
the remnants of which are still traceable.

Anuradhapura is, therefore, called catudvdra ‘having
four gates’ in Mahavamsa 34. 79 (cf. 35. 97). But the later
capital of the kingdom, Pulatthinagara, is also called
catudvara (88. 120) still in the 13th century, though the area
covered by its fortified city was double that of Anuradha-
pura city.

By the two main roads crossing each other in the centre
every old Indian city was divided into four districts. They
existed also in Pulatthinagara even at the time of the
greatest extent of the town. Parakkamabahu erected four
alms-halls in the four districts of the city (catusu passesu
purassa 73. 27).

We must, however, in Anuradhapura as well as in
Pulatthinagara, distinguish between the fortified city and
the parts of the town lying outside the entrenchment; the
former was comparatively small. Monasteries, for instance,
lay never in the city, but always outside as too much
ground was required for their temples and numerous other
buildings. In Anurddhapura four suburbs (dvdragama)
were laid out already by king Pandukabhaya (10. 88) and
in later times the Jetavanarama and the Mahavihara lay
south of the city, the Abhayagirivihara north of it- In
Pulatthinagara king Parakkamabahu is said to have founded
three suburbs (sakhanagara 73°152-3, 78'79-95). Their
names were Rajavesibhujanga, Sihapura or Rajakulantaka,
and Vijitapura. They were adorned with splendid palaces
and other buildings, and each with a monastery erected by

Google
CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA gr

the king :the firet with the Isipatana-vihara, the second with
the Kusinara-vihara and the third with the Veluvana-vihara.

In 73°159-163 we come across the notice that in the
twelfth century Parakkamabahu erected fourteen gates in
Pulatthinagara. This is by no means contradictory to what
we have said above concerning the four gates of Pulatthi-
nagara. For those gates erected by Parakkamabahu did not
belong to the city which had never more than four gates,
but were monumental structures built at the entrance of the
roads leading from all directions to the capital. It is said in
78°81,86,89 that in the suburb Rajavesibhujaiga four gates
were erected, three in Sthapura, and four in Vijitapura.
We may assume that the remaining three gates were to
adorn older suburbs which existed already before the time
of Parakkamabahu.

The names of the fourteen gates were |. King’s Gate,
2. Lion Gate, 3. Elephant Gate, 4. Indra Gate, 5. Hanu-
mant Gate, 6. Kuvera Gate, 7.CandiGate, 8, Rakkhas
Gate, 9. Serpent Gate, 10. Water Gate, 11. Garden Gate,
12, Maya Gate, 13. Mahatittha Gate, 14. Gandhabba Gate.
The name of the first gate also occurs in 74°199. Through
it the holy Relics that had been retaken in Rohana were
brought into the town in a solemn procession. As the
relics came from the south, it is probable that the King’s
Gate (rdjadvara) lay in this direction.

According to 73°156 Pulatthinagara in the twelfth
century had an extent of 4x7 gavutas=9 x 15% inches (cf.
H.W. Codrington, Ceylon Journ. of Science, Sec. G. Il,
p- 129 sq., 134). This number does not refer, I believe, to
city and town alone, but included the whole cultivated area
belonging to it. The area which has been cleared and
excavated up to the present time amounts to four miles
from south to north, and two miles in its broadest portion
from west to east. The fortified city which is still clearly
traceable, had an extent of one mile to half a mile«

85. The fortification of a city, mostly Pulatthinagara, is
mentioned and described in several passages of the chroni-

Google
ge WILHELM GEIGER

cle. King Vijayabahu I, 1059-1114, is said in Mahavamsa
60'2-3 to have built in Pulatthinagara a high and strong wall
(pakdra) which was well-faced with stucco (sudhakamma)
and defended round about with a long, broad and deep
moat (parikha). The new fortification, constructed by
Parakkamabahu (73°57 sq.), was yet stronger than that
built by former kings. The wall was high and covered with
a coating of stucco, and it was surrounded with three walls
more, apparently earth-walls, each in turn lower than the
others and each separated from the next one by a moat.
The fortress Parakkamapura, erected by Lankapura, one of
\kkamabahu's generals, immediately on the coast oppo-
site Ramissara, was also enclosed with three walls, made of
stone (pdsdnamaya), and surrounded by three moats which
were filled with water flowing from ocean to ocean
(76°121-23).

It is noticeable that this description agrees with the
Kautaliya (trsl. Shamasastry, p. 57) according to which a
castle must be surrounded with three moats, each narrower
than the other. The dug-out soil will have served for build-
ing the three walls mentioned in the Mahavamsa. In a
gloss Jat. IV. 106”, also three successive external moats,
surrounding a fortress, are mentioned, one within the other
They are called udaka-, kaddama- and sukkha- parikha,
water-moat, mud-moat and dry moat (cf. for this and the
following remarks, A. K. Coomaraswamy, op. cit., p. 213).

The supposition is not excluded that the chronicler has
taken his description of fortifications rather from the litera-
ture he had studied than from actual conditions. But we
must point to the fact that the great triple entrenchment
(timahaparikha) also occurs in the old Mahavamsa 25°48,
with reference to a city called Mahelanagara.

‘The four gates (dvdra) of a city required, of course, the
strongest fortification. Wherever in the chronicle the taking
by storm of a fortress is narrated, the gates are the chief
objects of the attack. The city of Mahelanagara, just men-
tioned, possessed but one gate and was therefore hard tq

Google
CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 3

come at. Some words denoting chiefly parts of the gate-
ramparts—gopura, forana, kofthaka, aftdla, patthandila—
demand a short explanation (cf. A. K. Coomaraswamy,
Early Indian Architecture, |. Cities and City gates, op. cit.,
p. 209 8q.).

The word gopura is not a mere synonym of dvdra. The
difference of meaning is manifest in 51.34. When the
Senapati of king Sena II, 850-885, who was at war with the
Pandus, had surrounded Madhura, he first blockaded the
gates (dvdrani), and cut off all traffic, then he set fire to
gopur’-attala-kotthake. Therefore, dvdra simply denotes
the entrance, but gopura is the tower-like structure above
the gate. Such structures could also be erected in inter-
vals on the top of the wall; twelve gopuras stood, for ins-
tance, on the wall of the fortress Parakkamapura (76.122).
Perhaps the general translation tower is preferable to the
more frequently used ‘gate-house.” By torana (36-103)
is meant the arch, against which gate-leaves closed from
behind. The town Kalyani is said in 91.5 to have had
splendid towers and arches. Often toranas are triumphal
arches erected in the Streets at a festive occasion, to be
passed by the festive procession (74.200).

The substantive kotthaka signifies any room for keeping
valuable things, a treasury or a granary or the like. In
connection with gopura or dodra (51.34; 91.7) it is a shelter-
ed room in the gate-tower from which the defenders could
throw missiles or stones or firebrands on the heads of the
enemies who tried to break through the gate-leaves or had
succeeded in doing so. I propose to translate the word
with shelter. The attala (ka)s or bastions, as | translate the
word, are according to A.K. Coomaraswamy structures
projecting from the walls right and left of the actual
gateway. They were manned in case of necessity with
soldiers who were able to protect the entrance from both
sides.

Difficult to explain is the word patthandila, which is met
with in one passage only (60.3). Since the walle of Pula-

Google

wee ne
4 WILHELM GEIGER

tthinagara are equipped with high patthandilaa | suppose
that parapets are meant behind which the defenders are
guarded against the rain of arrows shot by the aggressors,
when they are preparing the attack.

86. Towns with their streets (vithi =Sk. id., raccha
carriage-road=Sk. rathya) are depicted in the Indian lite-
rature in a schematic manner. In Pulatthinagara there were
many hundreds of streets with thousands of dwellings
(alaya) of two, three, and more storeys; in the streets
there was day by day an incessant traffic of elephants,
horses and carriages (Mahavamsa 73.148-49). When prince
Parakkamabahu intended secretly to leave the town and
to return to the Southern Province, he ran as if in fun after
his elephant and roamed from street to street (racchadya
raccham vicaram 67.33). He thus deceived the people
concerning his intention and the direction of his flight.
The principal street of a town was called King’s street
(rajavithi 67.1).

The words for dwelling-houses are geha, ghara, agara.
Peculiar types of houses were addhayoga and hammiya
(88.93,118), but-we are unable to describe their architectural
character. Hammiya was perhaps a house with a pavilion
on its top which could serve as an abode in the bright
season, for the word is also used as designation for one of
the outside chambers of a palace (A.K. Coomaraswamy,
Eastern Art Ill, 1931, p, 191). Both words occur in the
Vinaya | 58"*, II 146 in an enumeration of the buildings
which are allowed to bhikkhus as dwelling-places; vihara,
addhayoga, pasada, hammiya, guha.

Houses with more than one storey are called pasdda.
The most imposing of the palaces was, of course, that of the
king. The pasada built by Parakkamabahu in the citadel
of his capital is described above (20, J.G.I.S. Ill, 1936,
p- 141). For such buildings the translation ‘palace’ is
appropriate, but there can be no doubt that many houses
denoted with the expression pdsdda were by no means
palaces in the modern sense of the word:

Google
CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 8

Certain streets of the town were reserved for the bazaar.
There stood the taverns (pana) and the shops (apana 91.5)
where victuals, fruit and fish could be bought or clothes
and ornaments or other articles manufactured by the arti-
sans. In the bazaars (antarapana) of Pulatthinagera all
wares (sabbopakarana) were to be had (73.149).

The main embellishments of a town were the parks
(uyyana). They were, of course, mostly outside the city.
In ancient Anuradhapura the parks Nandanavana and
Mahameghavana are frequently mentioned in the chronicle.
The latter was laid out by king Mutasiva (11.2) and granted
by king Devanampiyatissa to the thera Mahinda who
founded the first Buddhist monastery there, the Mabavihara
(15.1 sq.). In the Nandanavana which was also called
Jotivana (15.202) the Jetavanavihara was erected in the
4th century A. Cc. (37.33). The form of the name Maha-
meghavanuyyana (15.8) appears to prove that such
parks were originally forests (vana) which were cleared s0
much as to become pleasure-gardens, where the people
could find recreation and amusement. .

When Parakkamabahu was building his capital
Pulatthinagara, he laid out in the four districts charming
gardens (uyydna) with trees that bore abundant blossom
and fruit (73.28-9). They covered, of course, no large area.

Another park, laid down by the same king, was the
Nandanagarden, so named after the park of Anuradhapura.
It is called ‘house-garden’ (gharuyyana 73.95), but we see
from 101-2 that it was open to the public. The charm of
this park is praised by the chronicler in the most extolling
manner, but quite schematically. There were pavilions
and other buildings of that kind in the park. It was
adorned with all the blossoming and fruit-bearing trees and
shrubs growing in the island, and filled with the cry of
peacocks and the gentle twitter of birds. There were lakes
(sara) in the park whose chief decorations were red and
blue lotus flowers, and bathing ponds, named Silapokkharani
and Mangala-pokkharani, Stone-pond and Lucky pond. As

Google

wees ne metrute ees ceemnee
6 WILHELM GEIGER

according to 73.95 this park was near the royal palace we
might assume that the garden in the northern half of the
citadel is meant. But in this case the whole description
would be hardly more than a poetical fiction, perhaps an
imitation of some older model.

In a similar manner as the Nandana-park the Dipuyyana,
‘Island-park’ is described (73.113 sq.). It is generally
assumed that it was laid out on the so-called ‘Promontory’
which juts out in the Tépavava west of the citadel and on
which the ruins of a series of magnificently constructed
baths were excavated by Mr. H. C. P. Bell in the year 1901.
Don M. de Z. Wickremasinghe, Epigraphia Zeylanica Il,
p. 148.

According to the Mahavamsa the park had received its
name, because the water divided there into two arms which
enclosed the park like unto an island. It is however
difficult to make this agree with the actual situation.

87. Great was the number of public buildings erected
in a town chiefly for charity purposes. They are generally
called sala ‘halls’. This word is very comprehensive and
denotes quite different buildings. Common to them is the
fact that they do not serve a single family as lodging. A
peculiar form was catussald or catussdlaghara, the house
with four halls. Such an edifice stood in the Mahavihara
in Anuradhapura (Mahavamsa 15.47, 50; 35. 88) and
another since the time of king Mahasena, 4thc. A. C., in
the Abhayagirivihara (37.15). By Parakkamabahu a
catussala with four entrances (catummukha) and several
large halls (visala-nana-sdla) was erected in the middle of
the town (73.23). It seems to have been a square court,
surrounded on all sides with halls open to the interior; the
four entrances opened from outside into the square. But
we do not know which purpose the building had to serve.
A catussalaghara within the fortress of Parakkamapura
(76.123) apparently contained barracks for the soldiers.

Near the entrances of the town dgantusdlds were erected
as rest-houses for people who had come from the country as

Google
CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA. 7

visitors or buyers (79.80.). It seems that the halls with
maintenance (saha bhogena salayo 37.149) erected by king
Buddhadasa, in the 4th c. a. c. on the high-street (maha-
pathe) were also such rest-houses for travellers.

In order to commit criminals to custody dungeons
(karagara) were built in the cities (70.264).

The dhammasalas, mentioned among the buildings of
Pulatthinagara in the thirteenth century (88.93) were, as the
name indicates, halls in which the priests preached the
doctrine. For distributing charity among bhikkhus and
beggars alms-halls (ddnasala) were erected, as, for ins-
tance, one in Anuradhapura by king Mahinda lV, 10th c.
Parakkamabahu had four alms-houses built in the
8 of Pula tthinagara (73.26), and near these halls
id down the four gardens mentioned above, and
setup rich provender houses which contained the most
necessary victuals, such as syrup, sugar, honey and the like
—all for the good of the monks and beggars entertained
in the alms-houses. He is also said to have erected an
alms-hall with four entrances (catummukha) on the spot
where his general Rakkha, carried off during the campaign
in Rohana by an attack of dysentery, had been burnt, in
order to honour his memory (74.150).

Often hospitals are mentioned among the public build-
ings of a town, the term vejjasala, lit. doctor-house occur-
ting first, as far as I can see, in the reign of Buddhadasa in
the fourth century a. c. (37.145, Buddhadasa also built
halls for cripples (pithasappin) and blind men on different
places (37.148), and the same was done by Udaya I, 792-97
(49.19). King Dhatusena had halls erected for lame and
sick people (pangu, rogatura, 38.42). The building of an
hospital in Pulatthinagara is ascribed to the kings Udaya 1
(49.19) and Sena I, 831-51, and that of one on the Atiya-
mountain (Mihintale) to the latter’s successor Sena II
(50.74. ; 51.73). Sena Kanga, the Ser ti of king Kassapa
IV, 896-913, had two hospitals built in Anuradhapura and
Pulatthinagara for combating the upasagga disease (52.25).

3

Google
8 WILHELM GEIGER

By the son of king Mahinda IV, 10th c., and by his Sena-
pati two separate hospitals were instituted, one for the laity
and the other for sick bhikkhus outside the town (54.53);
the king himself is said to have distributed medicaments
and beds to all the hospitals (54.31).

It was matter of course that Parakkamabahu also built a
great hospital in Pulatthinagara. It was large enough for
many hundreds of sick persons, and the king assigned to it
slaves male and female, as attendants, and provided for it,
according to need, medicine and food piled up in a store-
house (73.34-37).

Women in labour found accommodation in lying-in
hospitals (satighara 79.61). In the old Mahavamea 10.10 we
meet with a sivika-sdld, i.e., a lying-in shelter (cf.W.Geiger,
Mahavamsa trsl., p. 75, n. 3) even in the time of Panduka-
bhaya in the fourth century B. C.

For sick people who could walk, dispensaries (bhesajja-
ghara 52.24.) were erected. Medicaments were distributed
here to them, no doubt without payment, for it was consi-
dered to be a work of charity and a merit.

The expenses of the hospitals were covered by the
munificence of the kings and other rich people. King
Silakala, 6th c., is said to have increased the revenues of
(all) the hospitals in the island (41.28). King Udaya | pro-
vided each of the two hospitals erected by him in Pulatthi-
nagara and Padavi with a maintenance village (49.18), and
Kassapa V, 10th c., the hospital he had built in Anuradha-
pura (52.57), Mahinda IV is said to have instituted a
tambila-mandapa, i.e. a shop where betel was sold to the
people, the earnings from which he made over to bhikkhus
for the purchase of med: 8 (54.46).

Google
Early Traces of Buddhism in Burma
(Concluded from JGIS, VI, p. 52)

By Dr. Ninar-Ranjan Ray

Vi
The Buddhaghosa Tradition : Legend and History
C. 400-450 A.D.

We have already pushed the history of Theravada
Buddhism back to the 5th century A.D. The Buddhaghoga
tradition may now seem somewhat admissible.

Burmese chroniclers preserve a strong and persistent
tradition current to this day everywhere in the Buddhist
hierarchy of Burma that Buddhaghoga, the celebrated
Buddhist commentator and author of Buddhist scriptures,
was a native of Burma. Born in Thaton he is said to have
made a voyage to Ceylon in the year of Religion 943,
400 A.D. The Burmese ascribe a new era in their reli-
gion to the time when the great scholar reached their
country back from Ceylon.” He succeeded in his under-
taking. He made use of the Burmese or rather Talaing
characters in transcribing the manuscripts which were
written in the character of Magadha. The Burmese lay much
stress on that voyage, always carefully noting down the
year it took place. In fact, it is to Buddhaghoga that the
people of the shores of the Gulf of Martaban owe the
possession of Buddhist scriptures.° He is said to have
also brought over from Ceylon to Burma a copy of Kacca-
yana’s Pali grammar which he translated into Burmese, and

1. Rogers, Buddbaghosa’s Parables, p. xvi, m. 1-
2. Hardy, Manual of Buddbism, p. 532.
3. Ibid.

Google
100 NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

to have written a commentary as well upon it.‘ A volume
of parables in Burmes: 0 attributed tohim.* The
Burmese Code of Manu is said to have been introduced into
Burma from Ceylon by the same Buddhist scholar. But the
Code itself is silent on the point.*

Here is an example how the tradition is recorded in the
chronicles of the country. Itis taken from the Hmannan
Yazawin which, like most other Burmese chronicles, claims
Buddhaghoga to have been a native of Thaton from where
he is said to have crossed over to a seaport called Bhangiri
in the Deccan. Thence he reached Ceylon by ship. It
then proceeds to give an account of his early life and career,
and his sojourn in Ceylon including the story of the writing
of the commentaries; these accounts follow on the whole
those of the Ceylonese chronicles.

“Thus when the great elder Ashin Buddhaghoga had
given king Mahanaman a white elephant and sought leave
to depart, he brought one out of the three copies of the
Visuddhimagga which he had made together with the three
Pitakas, and crossed over to Jambudwipa. And Sakra came
to him and s: ‘In Jambudwipa, in the middle country,
there is no standing place for the Religion. The Religion
should shine. The Religion shall stand and shine for five
thousand years in such places as the distant jungle settle-
ments in the south-east corner of the middle country, nine
hundred (yojana) in circumference—Tharehkittara, Thiri-
pyissaya, (and) Ramajifiadesa. Carry it thither! So he
took it and crossed over and reached the city of Thaton,
called Sudhammavati. And when the tidings were known,
there was a general cry throughout all the kingdom of
Ramajifia, and king and queen, men and women, monks

4. Ind. Ant, XIX. 1890, p. 532-
5. Ibid.
6, Ibid. In this connection sce also Dr. B. C. Law, The Life
and Work of Buddbaghosa, Wl, pp. 40-42.

Google
EARLY TRACES OF BUDDHISM IN BURMA 101

and laymen, all welcomed the Religion with divers festi-
vals, assembles, celebrations, and almsgivings. As though
the Lord Omniscient had appeared in their midst, they
reverently raised the Pitakas, and coming to the city palace
they built a tabernacle in a lovely place in front of the
golden palace, and there they laid the treasures of the
religion.

“‘At the time the chief elder of the Religious order was
Ashin Anomadassi. This is his lineage: of the two monks
of the Third Council, Sona and Uttara, who came to
Suvannabhimi in the cause of religion, Ashin Sona the
elder had ten pupils who abode with him, the chief of
whom was Ashin Mal bhits ie pupil was Ashin
Mahasomadatta; his pupil, Ashin Sumantissa ; his pupil,
Ashin Sobhaga; his pupil, Ashin Somadatta ; his pupil,
Ashin Anomadassi: When Ashin Anomadassi was in
charge of the Religion, divers saints and monks who were
practising piety in the countries of Burma, Mon, Arakan,
Shan Yun, Linzin and Sokkati, came one by one and studi-
edand took away the sacred Pali and the commentary,
which had only been handed down by word of mouth
from teacher to teacher; and so in divers distant places
even now the Religion spreads and shines. This agrees
with the Sasanavamsa and the Thaton Chronicle......

“‘s10sThe Great Chronicle says that it was in the forty-
second year after the accession of King Thinlikyaung that
Ashin Buddhaghoga crossed over to Ceylon. But in the
forty-fourth (?) year of the reign of this king, being the
930th year of the Religion or 308, Mahanaman had not even
come tothe throne; there is a gap of sixteen years. So it
was not in -the reign of king Thinlikyaung, but in the
fifteenth year of the reign of his son Kyaungdwit that
Mahanaman became king; in the 946th year of the Religion
found in the Dipavamsa and agrees with
inscriptions, and the Sasanavamsa.

e above account has been omitted in the Great and
Middle Chronicles, but is here inserted with extracts accord-

Google
102 NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

ing tothe books, in order to make plain the story of the
arrival in Burma of the Pitakas, of the Religion.”

Thus 20 far as legend is concerned which obviously is
an example of how the chroniclers of a later date satisfied
their natural vanity by claiming as many celebrities of the
Religion they could as their own. Foulkes’ and Smith’
even doubted if there was ever a historical personage as
Buddhaghoga. But we can readily ignore that argument
now, for the celebrated Buddhist scholar has long been
proved to have been a real historical personage. More
substantial arguments in opposition are, however, offered
by Prof. Hackmann and Prof. Louis Finot.

“There is ground” says Prof. Hackmann’, “for doubting
the statement that this man (Buddhaghoga) brought
Buddhism to Burma, The chronicles of Ceylon to which
we owe the information about Buddhaghoga and which
must have been well-informed on the subject, give no
account of his journey to Further India. Indeed, one of the
most important inscriptions in Burma, which was erected
at the end of the 15th century A.D. at the instance of
the king of Pegu...makes no mention whatsoever of
Buddhaghoga. The Burmese tradition which refers to him
does so on account of his translations and writings having
become fundamental in the country, probably also because
his intellectual influence may have inaugurated a new
epoch in Burmese Buddhism.”

Prof. Finot, the distinguished French scholar, also
speaks in the same strain.

“In Indo-China, he (Buddhaghoga) passes for the grand
apostle who brought to those peoples the treasure of the
sacred books. Each country of the Peninsula is a claimant;
the Burmese make him a monk of Thaton, modern

7. “Buddbaghosa”, Ind., Ant., XIX, 1889, p. 122.
8 “Asoka’s alleged mission to Pegu,” Ind. Ant, xxiv,

1905, pp. 185-86.
9 Buddbism as a Religion, p. 68.

Google
EARLY TRACES OF BUDDHISM IN BURMA 103

Cambodia places him at the beginning of its religious
tradition and has kept his name as one of the most elevated
titles of ecclesiastical hierarchy. The (Burmese) chroni-
cles either secular or ecclesiastical are only the echo of
Simhalese history, altered by an insatiable national vanity.
As they make Buddha travel in the valley of the Irrawady
for predicting the foundation of diverse capitals, they
substitute Thaton for Magadha as the point of departure or
of return in the voyage of Buddhaghoga to Ceylon. Not
only is this tradition apocryphal, it is not even old; it
cannot go back in any case further than the 16th century.
We have a decisive proof of it in the inscriptions of
Kalya If the belief in the introduction of the scriptures
to Pegu by Buddhaghoga had asserted at that time, the
pious king would have no doubt reserved to it a place of
honour in his abridgement of the history of the Church.
But he does not mention the name of the great commen-
tator ; thus it follows that in his time no connection had yet
been established between Buddhaghoga and Thaton.’”

Who would deny that there is great weight in these
criticisms which are just and reasonable? The character
itself of the tradition is such as to raise suspicion in a
critical mind and the or jon, moreover, of any account
of the great scholar’s adventure in Further India in the
Ceylonese chronicles as well as in the Kalyani inscriptions
is indeed too serious an objection to overcome. The
argument of omission, it is true, is another example of
argumentum ex silentio, but it must be admitted that in
the present instance it goes a great way towards confirming
our suspicions already created in the mind by the nature
of the tradition itself. The omission in the Ceylonese
may, however, be ignored; but not that in the
inscriptions where the pious and zealous king
Dhammaceti made it a point, as it were, to record each

10. The Legend of Buddbaghosa, translated from the French by
P. C. Bagchi, Cel. Rev,, 1923, pp. 64-67.

Google
104 NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

and every step in the course of the progress of the Religion
in the Peninsula up till his reign, and it is indeed difficult
to assume that he forgot to record such an important
event.

Furthermore, Prof. B. M. Barua” has recently introduced
us to a second Buddhaghoga, a Buddhist scholar and
divine, and an elder contemporary of the Buddhaghoga of
Visuddhimagga fame. Evidence, unfortunately, is so
meagre on the point that very difficult to establish his
identity; we only know that it was at his instance that the
younger, but the more celebrated, Buddhaghoga undertook
to prepare his famous commentary on the Vibhanga the
Sammohavinodini. It may be argued that the elder
Buddhaghoga may have been a native of Burma, and the
chroniclers fathered on him all that passed in the name of
the younger and the more celebrated one. But such an
assumption is unwarranted; and if all that is claimed by
the tradition current in Burma is to be believed, it ie certain
that none else than the younger and the more celebrated,
the scholar Buddhaghosa, is meant.’*

But all this is more destructive or speculative. The
tradition so loud and persistent, may not be without a
meaning, a significance. Is it not possible to suggest some-
thing constructive, something that may help us to see the
indication of history through the thick mass of legends?

11, “Two Baddbaghosas,” Indian Culture 1, no. 2, pp. 294-95-

12, “The Burmese tradition that Buddhaghosa was a native of
Thaton and returned thither from Ceylon merits more attention than
it has received. It can easily be explained away as patriotic fancy.
On the other hand, if Buddhaghosa’s object was to invigorate
Hinaydnism in India the result of his really stupendous labours was
singularly small, for in India his name is connected with no religious
movement. But if we suppose that he went to Ceylon by way of
the holy places in Magadha and returned from the Coromandel coast
to Burma where Hinayinism afterwards flourished, we have at least
a coherent narrative.” Eliot, Hinduism and Buddbism, Ill, p. 32.

Google
EARLY TRACES OF BUDDHISM IN BURMA. 105

We may not be able to hit upon any positive evidence,
but we may be able to throw, in more or less degree, some
light on a tradition that has vexed scholars for long.

Recent archaeological finds mainly at Hmawza, a small
village rich in ancient ruins, five miles south of the present
town of Prome, and the oldest seat, so far known, of
kingship in Lower Burma, have decisively proved that
Theravada or Pali Buddhism was already well known in
and around that country in the fifth and sixth centuries of
the Christian era. Here have been discovered a number
of epigraphs relating to well-known texts from canonical
Pali literature inscribed on stone and gold plates in what
is very closely allied to the Kadamba script, paleographi-
cally belonging to the 5th, 6th centuries A.D. Two of
these plates begin with the well-known Buddhist formula
“Yedhamma hetuppabhava......” etc., in Pali, and refer
respectively to the 19 categories of Buddhism, and the
equally well-known praise of the tri-ratna as contained in
the Anguttara Nikaya."? Another epigraph contains an
extract either from the Dhammasangani or Vibhanga;
while a third which is a gold-leaf manuscript is inscribed
with an extract giving the chain of causation or paticca-
samuppdada and other extracts from the Sutta, Vinaya, and
Abhidhamma Pitakas. All these texts which we have al-
ready referred to in detail, belong decidedly to Pali or
Theravada Buddhism, and the epigraphs prove once for all
that this Buddhism was known and practised at Old Prome
(Hmawza) as early as when those epigraphs were inscribed,
i.e. in the 5th and 6th centuries A.D. Images of the

13. It may be noted here that Buddhaghosa in commenting on
Afiguttara Nikaya, 1. 14. 6, describes the merchants of Ukkala
(obviously a form of Utkala) as having been inhabitants of Asitafjana
in the region of Hamsivati or Pegu. Te shows Buddhaghosa’s acquain-
tance with the region of deltaic Burma. Vide Forchammer, Notes
on the Ancient Geography of Burma, “The Shwedagon Pagoda,”
Rangoon, 191.
4

Google
106, NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

Buddha in traditional poses and attitudes and belonging
to the same period, as well as stdpas and other monuments,
belonging to the creed of Theravada Buddhism by reason
of the iconography of their sculptures, have been discovered
in considerable numbers at the same locality. These find-
ings known to scholars for several years are important by
themselves, but when we consider the period to which they
belong and the tradition of art and palaeography to which
they are affiliated on the one hand, and on the other the
period when Buddhaghoga flourished and the country or
countries which he was more or less associated with, they
become at once invested with a deeper significance.

According to Dhammakitti’s account in the Mahavamsa,
Buddhaghoga flourished in the first half of the 5th century
A.D. This account is supported by Burmese tradition
and other internal evidences from the works of Buddha-
ghoga himself. Most of his years of activity he lived, it
is true, in Ceylon, but tradition strongly connects him with
South India as well, more definitely with Conjeeveram or
ancient Kaficipuram which the great Buddhist scholar and
preacher is credited with having developed into an im-
portant centre of Th la Buddhism. Tradition and
history also associate him intimately with the Godavari
region on the one hand, and the Kaveri region on the
other. In fact, if tradition is to be given any value, it is
to the credit of Buddhaghoga that Theravada Buddhism
had a new lease of life in South India.

Now, we have seen in the preceding sections, that from
the fifth century onwards down to the middle of the ele-
venth there is a continuous record of a very flourishing state
of Buddhism in and around the kingdom of Old Prome, in
fact, in Lower Burma. The fifth century indeed seems to
be very significant, from what we have already seen, in
the history of Buddhism in Burma; this century saw, in
the old kingdom of Prome, a sudden awakening of

14. Law, The Life and Work of Buddhaghose, pp. 9-11.

Google

EARLY TRACES OF BUDDHISM IN BURMA 107

Theravada Buddhism, a new start, as it were, of anold
faith. It found from somewhere a strong impetus, a new
urge of life, at about this period; and this new urge ex-
pressed itself in a wide outburst of activities in all direc-
tions, chips of which have come down to us in the shape
of a number of Pali inscriptions, a large number of
Buddhist sculptures, and a few Budd! monuments. Is it
or is it not possible to connect this impetus, this outburst
of religious activities, suddenly in about the fifth century,
with the Buddhaghoga legend? In any case the appearance
or re-appearance of Thezavada Buddhism in the old king-
dom of Prome, as evidenced by her old epigraphs and
sculptures and monuments thus almost coincides not only
with the period in which Buddhaghoga flourished, but also
with the establishment and development of great centres
of Theravada Buddhism on the Krgna-Godavari and Kaveri
valleys, places like Kaiicipuram, Kaveripattanam and
Uragapuram, all intimately associated with the Buddhaghoga
tradition. The coincidence seems rather to be significant,
and when we examine the Burmese tradition from this point
of view the story of the great scholar’s visit may not seem
to be altogether without a foundation, though one is con-
scious that such an argument involves a certain kind of
logical fallacy.

With regard to the Buddhaghoga tradition the position
may, therefore, be stated thus: There are, indeed, cogent
reasons for doubting it, but we must not treat the prob-
lem as closed or as decided once for all. There is, indeed,
a probability of the tradition having something to do with
actual facts, and it is, therefore, more reasonable to keep the
door open for more light, and re-examine the legend in the
light of evidences that are daily growing in volume and
importance in favour of an early introduction of Thervada
Buddhism in Burma. But Buddhaghoga or no Buddhaghoga
in Burma, it is immaterial with regard to our study of the
history of Buddhism in the Peninsula. If the tradition be
given any value, the great Buddhist scholar must then have

Google
108 NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

made his influence felt in Burma some time in the first half
of the fifth century A.D. If it is dismissed, it would matter
little, for almost immediately after, we have definite epigra-
phic evidence of the prevalence of Theravada Buddhism,
the religion of the Master, in its pure and unsullied form, in
Lower Burma where Buddhagoga is said to have established
one of his centres of activity.

VII
Buddhism in Lin-Yang (Prome?) C. 250 A.D.

The Pali epigraphs discovered in the old city of Prome
and belonging to the fifth and sixth centuries are not how-
ever the earliest evidence of Buddhism in Burma. Still
earlier, already in the third century of the Christian era,
Buddhism was well established in a part of Burma where
there were several thousand ‘‘Sramanas adhering to the
faith", and where the people ‘‘worshipped the Buddha.”

Early Chinese texts speak often of a country, among a
host of others of Indo-China, called Chin-lin or ‘Frontier of
Gold". Prof. Paul Pelliot long ago drew our attention to
these texts, and it is to him that we are mostly indebted for
all information from Chinese sources regarding Far-Eastern
countries including Campa, Kamboja, Siam, Laos, Java,
Sumatra, Borneo and other islands, Burma and even some
parts of Eastern India. Here we shall concern ourselves
with only a few references from Chinese texts which may
directly refer to our subject.’*

About the beginning of the third century A.D. Fii-nan
which included modern Cambodia and major portion of
Siam, was gradually expanding its power. One of its kings,
(Fan-) wan, a brave and capable man, attacked and subdued
the neighbouring kingdoms and took the title of the Great

15, Pelliot’s researches on the subject are mostly contained in
his masterly contribution, Deux Itineraires, published in the
BEFEO., tome IV, 1904.

Google
EARLY TRACES OF BUDDHISM IN BURMA 109

King of Fii-nan. He then boarded a few great ships and
traversing the vast ocean attacked more than ten kingdoms
including Ch'u-tu-kun, Chin-chih and Tien-siin, thus extend-
ing the kingdom of an five or six thousand li. Then he
projected a subjugation of the kingdom of Chin-lin or Fron-
tier of Gold; but as he fell ill, he could not achieve his
end.'* The date of the death of (Fan-)wan, the Great King
of Fii-nan, is shown by Pelliot to have been c. 225-30 A.D. "7
Moreover, in the time of Wu (A.D. 222-80), Chu Ying and
K’ang Y’ai, Prof. Pelliot points out, were sent on an em-
bassy to the country of (Fan)-hsun. The date of this em-
bassy is fixed by him to have been c. 245-250 A.D.'* “The
kingdoms which they passed through or heard of, were a
hundred and several tens’”’;'* but the evidence as given in
the Liang Shu (ch. 54, f. 2. recto and verso) does not warrant
such a long list. It includes Tu-K’un, Chu-li, Tun-Hsun and
Chin-lin;?” Tu-K'un and Chu-li must be looked for some-
where in the Malay Peninsula, Tun-Heun (Tien-siin) has
been identified with Tennasserim, and Chin-lin or the Fron-
tier of Gold with Suvannabhimi of literature. The
identification of the last-named country is generally accept-
ed.” Chin-lin thus refers to the region of the Gulf of
Martaban which is certainly the same as the ‘great bay of
the Frontier of Gold’ referred to in the Chinese texts.”*

16. BEFEO., 1903, pp. 256-67.

17. Ibid., p. 303.

18. Ibid., p. 303, 430.

19. Ibid., pp. 275-7.

20, For Pelliot’s discussions on the identifications of these regions
see Ibid., pp. 263-69; also see Laufer, JA., Juin-Aout, 1918, pp. 24-31

21, Pelliot, Ibid., p. 266, n. 5, where the reader would find his
arguments for accepting the identification.

22. For additional arguments in support of the identification, see
TBRS., Vol. XIV, Pt. Il, p. 153, where Prof. G. H. Luce remarks:
“Chin-lin, quite irrespective of its meaning or connection with
Suvannabhiimi, might be placed on geographical grounds on the Gulf

Google
110 NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

The kingdom of Chin-lin was called Chin-ch’en. The
T’ai-p'ing yu lan (ch. 790, f. 23) has two quotations, Pelliot
Points out, about the kingdom of the Frontier of Gold. The
first is taken from I wu chih according to which Chin-lin is
called Chin-ch’en. It is above 2000 li from Fii-nan. The
second extract is taken from the Wai kuo ch’uan according
to which one can reach Chin-ch’en by going west for more
than 2000 li from Fii-nan. Pelliot sees in Chin-ch’en a gra-
phic alteration of Chin-lin.” That the two identical is
also proved by Prof. Luce who points out that “the v: ts.
Chin-lin and Chin-ch’en, both perhaps of equal antiquity,
are sufficiently close in sound to suggest that the name may
be a transcription, and not a translation, of the native
names; and this would explain the variant writings of lin,
one of which, Chin-lin, has no semantic value...... If the
I wu chi is the Nan chou i wu chih of Wan chen, the
identificatin of Chin-ch’en with Chin-lin is as old as the third
century; the name Chin-ch’en is also said to occur in the
Wai Kuo ch'uan which may be the actual work of K'ang
Tai (BEFEO, 1904, p. 270, n. 3), and in the fifth century
Fié-nan chi of Chu Chih’”?*

It is in the last named text, i. e. the Fii-nan chi of Chu
Chih that there is an interesting reference to what may be
said to bear an important relation with our present subject

of Martaban. Chin-ch'en, or Chin-lin, is said to be more than 2000 li
west of Fii-nan; Pieu-ton, Tu-Koun, Chu-li and Pi-Sung are 3000 li
south of Chin-lin on the one hand; Tu-K’un and Tun-hstin over 3000
1 south of Fi-nan on the other. It seems a natural conclusion that
Tu-K'un, etc. were somewhere on the Malay Peninsula, roughly equi-
distant from (the capital of ?) Fii-nan (Cambodia) on the one side, and
the Gulf of Martaban on the other. The mention of the ‘great bay’
is a strong argument; and the reference to the white population of
these parts tallies with Ptolemy's similar account of Chryse.”

23. elliot, [bid., p. 266, n. 5,

24. IBRS., Vol. XIV, Part Il, p. 153-

Google
EARLY TRACES OF BUDDHISM IN BURMA ut

of study. And here is Pelliot's version of the portion of the
text as quoted in the Shui Ching Chu (ch. I, f. 7, verso):
“The kingdom of Lin-Yang (old pronunciation: Liem- (d)
iang) is 2000 li by land-route from that of Chin-ch’en. One
goes there by carriage or on horseback; there is no route
by water. All the people worship the Buddha.’ This
kingdom of Lin-Yang is the object of a paragraph in the
T’ai p'ing yu lan (ch. 787, f. 13); it is mentioned according
to the report of the travels of K’ang T’ai, as being 7000 li
south-west of Fii-nan, and according to the Nan Chouiwu
chi of Wan Chen, as being the same distance, but west. In
the time of K’ang T’ai there were already in this country,
according to his report, several thousand Sramanas."'**
K’ang T’ai, according to Pelliot, should be referred to the
middle of the third century A.D. It is thus evident that
Buddhism was already a flourishing religion at that time in
the kingdom of ‘Yang. But which is the region referred
to as Lin-Yang in the Chinese texts?

The kingdom of Lin-Yang is said to be 2000 li by horse
or carriage from Chin-ch’en or Chin-lin which is Suvanna-
bhimi or Thaton region of Burma on the Gulf of Martaban.
Chin-lin again id to be of the same distance to the west
from Fii-nan that included modern Cambodia and the major
portion of Siam. From Fi-nan, Lin-Yang was, however,
7000 li to the west or south-west. From these data as well as
from the statement that it could not be reached by water,
Prof. Luce infers that Lin-Yang might have been situated

25, How unreliable are these measurements of distances as given
in these texts is apparent in this statement. From Fii-nan Chin-lin
“is described to be 2000 li and from Chin-lin to Lin-Yang the distance
is the same. The two distance lines thus form the two arms or sides
of equal length of a triangle whose third side may be said to be supplied
by the distance line of 7000 li from Fii-nan to Lin-Yang, an impossible
proposition from the geometrical point of view. For the third side
(7000 li) cannot be greater in any case than the other two sides taken

together, viz. 4000 Hi.

Google
112 NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

in the north or centre of Burma.”* But I cannot really
follow why Lin-Yang should be located so high up in the
Peninsula as in the north, though one may possibly be dis-
posed to locate it in the centre. It is difficult to ascertain
from where all distances in respect of Fii-nan were counted;
was it from the capital or from the nearest borderland? and
what again should be our attitude with regard to the distan-
ces and directions as state: the texts which are our only
source of information? Should we interpret them literally
or accept merely their sense? That they are sometimes
absolutely unreliable is well known. These are some of the
difficulties with respect to any identification of Lin-Yangi
but let us go by the facts as they are stated. If, then, the
identification of Chin-ch’en or Chin-lin with the Thaton
region is correct, and Prof. Luce admits that it is so, the
capital of Fii-nan from where presumably all distances in
respect of that country were counted or the nearest border
region of that kingdom, must be situated, on the authority
of the | wu chih as quoted in the T'ai ping yu lan referred
to above, some 2000 li east of Thaton.”” The distance of
Lin-Yang from Chin-ch’en is also stated as 2000 li, but the
direction is not given. It cannot, however, be southwards
from Chin-ch’en, for that way stretches the Malaya Peninsu-
la which borders on the sea, nor can it be direct westwards
from Thaton. According to Cunningham’s computation
one Chinese li in Hsiian-Chuang’s time was equivalent to

26. JBRS., Vol. XIV, Part Il, p. 154.

27. The capital of Fii-nan was at T’emu, and was 500 li from
the sca, evidently the South China Sea. We should, therefore,
search for it somewhere, probably on the Mekong up Vien Tiane.
Pelliot would, however, locate it between Chandone and Phnom-penh,
perhaps near Vyadhapura (Angkor Borci). BEFEO, 1902, p. 128:
1903, PP. 247, 265-90; 1904, p. 214. The difculey with regard to
the identification is that Chin-lin is not due west from such a loca-
tion; the distance too is more than 500 Hi

Google
EARLY TRACES OF BUDDHISM IN BURMA. 3

one-sixth of an English mil if it is assumed that Chinese
Ui measured the same distance in the third century as well,
we have roughly over 300 English miles as the distance from
Chin-ch’en or Thaton to Lin-Yang. But this distance must
not be measured as the crow flies, for cart or horse tracks in
those days lay necessarily in a zigzag course. Nor should
they, I think, be taken too literally. If we take this
into consideration and allow some concession as to the
measurement of the distance in li, | think we cannot go
higher up northwards than Hmawza, the site of the capital
of the old kingdom of Prome. In fact, I infer that the
kingdom of Lin-Yang may be the same as the kingdom of
Old Prome that lay, even in those days when the Gulf had
not yet receded so much to the south, much to the interior
at considerable distance from the coast, and could not
be reached by water especially from the region of Chin-
ch’en. The identification with Prome may also find
support in the fact that only two centuries later we have
definite evidence of the prevalence of Buddhism, in the
capital city of this old kingdom where Pali canonical litera-
ture was studied in its doctrinal and most intricate aspects.
But whether the identification of Lin-Yang with Prome
be true or a mere conjecture, we cannot doubt that
this kingdom must be sought for somewhere in Burma,
either in the region of Prome or higher up in the central
districts of the Peninsul: where Buddhism was already
in the middle of the century very well established
with several thousand ‘Sramanas adhering to the Faith’ and
the whole people subscribed to the worship of the Buddha.

28. Cunningham's Ancient Geography of India, App. B,
pp. 571 &

29. But it should be borne in mind that the entire discussion
centering on Lin-Yang is based on the identification of Chin-lin
(Chin-ch'en) with the region bordering on the Gulf of Martaban,
which, however, is generally accepted. But see Luce, /BRS., Vol.
XIV, Pare Il, p. 155 n. 1.

5

Google
114 NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

If all this is correct, and it seems that it is, then there can
be no doubt that this is the first and earliest definite refer-
ence to Buddhism in Burma.**

The Asoka-mission of Sona and Uttara:
Legend and History.
C. 250 B.C.

There is hardly any tradition so universal in the Buddhist
church of Burma and so often repeated in her chronicles as
the story of the first introduction of the Religion of Gautama
the Buddha, by Sona and Uttara, two theras sent by
Moggaliputta mahathera, the teacher of Asoka to evange-
lise the land. The tradition rests primarily on the authority
of the two Ceylonese chronicles, the Dipavamsa™ and the
Mahavamsa.” In both the chronicles the story is the same;
and it will be convenient to quote here the relevant portion
from the Mahavamsa, which, by the way, gives us a more
detailed version of the narrative (Chap. XII, the Converting
of different countries).

“When the thera Moggaliputta, the illuminator of the
religion of the Conqueror, had brought the (third) Council
to an end and when looking into the future, he had beheld
the founding of the Religion in adjacent countries, (then)
in the month Kattika he sent forth theras, one here and

30. In Tun-hsiin (ie. Tennasserim), however, Brihmanism was at
this time the prevalent form of religion. “The kingdom of Tun-hsiin
depends on Fii-nan... In this country there are 500 families of Hu of
India, two Fo-'u, and more than a thousand Brahmanas of India.
The (people of) Tun-hsiin practise their doctrine and give them their
daughters in martiage, so many (of these Brahmins) do not depart.
They do nothing but read the holy books of the heavenly spirits
and constantly offer unto them white vases of perfumes and flowers
without ceasing, day and night” (BEFEO., 1903, pp. 279 ff).

38. Geiger, Dipavarnsa, 8, 1-13.

32. Geiger, Mabavamsa, 12, 1-54.

Google :
EARLY TRACES OF BUDDHISM IN BURMA m5

one there. The thera Majjhantika he sent to Kaémira and
Gandhara ; the thera Mahadeva he sent to Mahigamandala.
To Vanvasa, he sent the thera Rakkbita; and to Aparantaka
the Yona named Dhammarakkhita; to Maharattha (he sent)
the thera Mahadhammarakkhita ; but the thera Mahérak-
khita he sent into the country of the Yona. He sent the
thera Majjhima to the Himalayan country, and to Suvanna-
bhiimi he sent the theras Sona and Uttara. The great thera
Mahinda, the theras Itthiya, Uttiya, Sambala and Bhadda-
sala, his disciples, these theras he sent forth with the charge
“Ye shall found in the lovely island of Lanka, the lovely
Religion of the Conqueror.” ””**

The account goes on into details regarding each of the
missions. With regard to Suvannabhiimi it is laid down:

“Together with the thera Uttara, the thera Sona of
wondrous might went to Suvannabhimi, Many were the
people who came unto the (three) refuges and the precepts
of duty ; sixty thousand were converted to the true faith.
Three thousand five hundred sons of noble families received
it likewise. Thenceforth when a prince was born in the
royal palace, the kings gave to such the name Sonathera.**

With these traditional accounts preserved in the name
and to the credit of religious teachers, one may also read
the accounts of missionary activities recorded by Asoka
himself to his own credit. Besides organising a prosely-
tising band of zealous missionaries to carry the message of
the Master to every nook and corner of Jambudipa, he is
aid to have sent missionaries to Tambapanni (Ceylon),
as well as to all his neighbours as far as six hundred
leagues, where the king of the Greeks named Antiochus
lives, and beyond that Antiochus (where live) the four
kings named severally (Turamaya) Ptolemy, (Amtekina)
Antigonos, (Maga or Maka) Magas, and (Alikasudara)
Alexander:.....""

33. Mabivamsa, 82.
34. Mabivamsa, p. 86.

Google
16 NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

The historicity of the mission to the Greek countries
and Ceylon** has hardly been doubted, recorded as they
are by Asoka himself in his Edicts (RE. V and XiIll).
The story of the missions to the Himalayan countries and
Kaémira is also generally believed.” Gandhara, Mahiga-
mandala, Vanavasa, Aparanta and Mabarattha were all
within Asoka’s dominions, and Asoka himself claims, in
his edicts, to have left no place in Jambudipa out of his
missionary campaigns and activities. These direct and in-
direct corroborations from independent sources of practi-
cally all the missions referred to in the Ceylonese chronicles
naturally warrants the presumption that the story of the
one mission not upheld by any independent evidence, i.
the one to Suvannabhiimi, is aleo true in its main outlines.
It is admitted that the account of the Ceylonese chronicles,
as historical evidence, may not commend itself wholly to
scholars, but there is also nothing absurd in the story of
Moggaliputta Tissa’s mission to Suvannabhiimi headed by
two chief theras, Sona and Uttara.

But Vincent Smith dismissed the tradition as ‘mythical’,
and Kern ‘felt grave suspicions’ concerning its authenti-
city.** Kern wrote in 1896, and Smith within a decade of
that date; much light has since been thrown by historical
and archeological researches on the interesting problem of
early Indo-Burmese historical and cultural relations. But

35. Rhys Davids doubted the authenticity of Asoka’s missions
to Greek countries (Buddhist India, pp. 298-99); but his arguments are
no longer seriously held.

36. Geiger in his introduction to the Mabavamsa adduces very
important arguments not only in favour of the mission to Ceylon but
of the general historicity of all the missions referred to in the
Ceylonese chronicles.

37. Mabavamsa, Inteod. pp. xix-xx; Rockill, Life of the Buddha,
p. 167; Cunningham, The Bhilsa Topes, pp. 267, 289, 319.

38. Smith, Afoka (1901), p. 55; Ind. Ant., 1908, pp. 198 ff:
Kern, Manual of Buddhism, 1896, p. 117.

Google

EARLY TRACES OF BUDDHISM IN BURMA 7

though nothing has been found definitely to establish the
historicity of the mission itself, the force of the opposition
seems to have subsided to a considerable extent.

Kern's objections are easily met. He suspects the
duumvirate Sona-Uttara, and thinks that the chroniclers
confused the thera Sonottara or simply Uttara of Duttha-
gimant’s time with the theras alleged to have been sent by
Moggaliputta. But one fails to understand why the chroni-
clers should confuse any one of the two theras or both with
the thera Sonottara or Uttara living in the time of Duttha-
gamani (101-77 B.c.). Sona and Uttara of Asoka’s time
were removed by at least a century anda half from Sono-
ttara or Uttara of Dutthagamani’s time; and there is hardly
any evidence in the Ceylonese chronicles of such a curious
confusion. As to the later name Sonottara or Utta
not unusual to adopt names of earlier theras, sometimes
of single individuals, sometimes of two jointly. Kern
further argues that the duumvirate Sona and Uttara are un-
known to northern Buddhists. This argument is at best an
example of argumentum ex silentio. Majjhima, Kassapa
and Majjhantika and their missions are also equally un-
known to northern Buddhists, nor are they mentioned in
any of the edicts of Asoka; but there is no more room for
doubting their authenticity.

Vincent Smith’s objections are more substantial, Much
of his statements and arguments would not have, it is cer-
tain, been repeated to-day had he lived to tackle the prob-
lem now after a lapse of more than a quarter of a century.
What remains to-day of his long discourse may be summar-
ised in two arguments; (a) Rock Edicts Nos. V and XIII
give a list of the countries to which he sent mission-
aries to propagate the religion, but there is absolutely no
mention in this list of the mission to Suvannabhiimi. ‘‘The
silence of the edicts concerning the alleged fact goes a long
way towards disproving its reality, for Asoka seems to have
intended to give a complete account of his missionary oper-
ations, and if he had really sent emissaries to Suvannabhiimi

Google
118 NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

previous to the publication of the Rock Edicts, it is incon-
ceivable that he should have omitted to mention in them
an event of such importance..."’ Elsewhere he states,
“Facts vouched for by the inscriptions of Asoka may, there-
fore, be accepted without question, because the testimony
is good on the face of it, and no better can be looked for.
When the evidence of the inscriptions differs from that of
later literary traditions, the epigraphic authority should be
preferred without hesitation”. (b) There isno mention of
the mission of Sona and Uttara aleo in the Kalyani inscrip-
tions (1476 A.D.) which give a summary of the history of the
introduction and progress of Theravada Buddhism in Burma.
Of the two arguments the first one still holds good, but the
second is practically of no force to-day. For, it has recent-
ly been pointed out by Dr. Blagden, the learned editor of
the Kalyani inscriptions, that a reference to the mission of
Sona and Uttara does occur in the celebrated records. We
shall, therefore, meet the second argument first, though
it is less material in view of the fact that the story of the
history of the introduction and progress of Buddhism in
Burma as recorded in the Kalyani inscriptions is not original
and independent, but seems rather to have been brought
from Ceylon by the monks who were sent by king Dhamma-
ceti (1460-91) to the island to reintroduce a canonically
valid monastic succession in Lower Burma where the Order
had long been split up into schismatical sects. Moreover,
the evidence of the Kalyani inscription, in respect of its
torical value, is no better than that of the Ceylonese chroni-
cles; it is also about nine centuries later in date. The crux
of the question rests finally, therefore, on the value of the
Ceylonese chronicles themselves.

It is to the credit of king Dhammaceti of Pegu that the
present Buddhist Church and organisation of Burma stands
as it is to-day.

This reformer-king caused a long detailed history of
Buddhism in Burma to be recorded in the celebrated Kalyani
inscriptions (1476 A.D-) of Pegu. The story is prefaced

Google
EARLY TRACES OF BUDDHISM IN BURMA 119

by a good deal of historical matter relating to earlier periods
in the long history of Buddhism and particularly to ite vicis-
situdes in Ceylon and introduction and development in
Burma.** These interesting details are introduced by a
statement regarding Asoka’s reformation of the Buddhist
Church and the mission of Sona and Uttara to Suvanna-
bhimi.

“At the conclusion of this Council (the Third
Buddhist Council convened by Asoka) Moggaliputtatissa
mahathera reflected that in the future the Religion
would be established in neighbouring foreign countries
and sent such theras as Majjhantika thera with the
injunction; ‘‘Do you establish the religion in those neigh-
bouring foreign countries?" Of these theras, he sent out
lord Mahinda thera to establish the religion in the island
of Tambapanni, and Sona thera and Uttara thera to
establish the religion in the Mén country which was also
called Suvannabhimi'
Here is then a definite mention of the Asoka-mission

otherwise than in Ceylonese chronicles. Prof. Blagden
would have us, therefore, believe that statement of the
Kalyani inscriptions to be not ‘altogether devoid of any
foundation’. ‘Sona and Uttara", he says, “have long been
claimed by Burma as founders of their branch of the Church;
and though the tale has been embellished with many legen-
dary accretions in the course of ages, it can hardly on that
account be dismissed. Evidence is gradually accumulating
from various different quarters which tends to show that
Indian influence made itself felt in Indo-China from about

39. Ep. Birm,, Vol. Ill, Part Il, p. 82.

40. Ep. Birm., Vol. Il, Part Il, p. 185 Text A, lines 3-6. The
identification of Suvannabhiimi with the Mén country rests on this
passage. Blagden adds a note and states, “So far as can be con-
jectured from the fragmentary remains of the Mén text, it probably
expresses itself in this way—In Suvannabbiimi which is the Mén
country.

Google
arn

120 NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

the beginning of the Christian era, or possibly even two or
three centuries before that date; and there seems to be no-
thing antecedently improbable in the story of a Buddhist
mission being sent there at a relatively earlier period, though
it may well be hazardous to fix that date exactly’’.

We now turn to the first argument of Smith. That
argument is convincing so far as it goes, but it does not go
very far. There is no gainsaying the fact that when ‘the
evidence of the inscriptions (of Asoka) differs from that of
later literary traditions, the epigraphic authority should be
preferred without hesitation’. We, therefore, must accept
first of all and without reserve the testimony of Asoka’s
Rock Edicts V and XIII with regard to the list of countries
where missionaries were sent. But we may proceed also
cone step further, for, we have already seen ‘that the tradi-
tion with regard to at least two of the countries, namely,
Kaémira and the Himalayan countries to which, according to
the Ceylonese chronicles, Asoka is said to have sent
missions, are not mentioned in the list as supplied by the
Edicts, but is nevertheless upheld by other independent
sources. The evidence of the chronicles has, therefore,
some claim to be considered at least as supplementing that
of the Edicts. The other side of the argument involves a
well-known logical fallacy, that of argumentum ex
silentio. No one can possibly maintain that there is any
cogency in such an argument. The hollowness of it can at
once be pointed out. That ‘the silence of the Edicts con-
cerning the alleged fact’ does not go very far towards dis-
proving the reality of any of the missions referred to in the
Dipavamsa and Mahavamsa is established by the historicity
of the missions to Kaémira and the Himalayan countries no
reference to which is made in the records of Asoka. The
omission, therefore, of the mission of Sona and Uttara in
the records of Asoka does not prove or disprove the auth-
enticity of the Ceylonese tradition.

If an attempt has been made above to meet the argu-
ments of Kern and Smith, it is not intended to assert that the

Google
Pa

EARLY TRACES OF BUDDHISM IN BURMA. 12

Ceyolnese story of the mission to Suvannabhimi i
certain, or to say that it is definitely estal
suggested is that once the general historicity of the story of
the missions listed in the Ceylonese chronicles is accepted,
and we have seen that there is hardly any difficulty in accept-
ing it, the presumption will always be in favour of the
‘Sona-Uttara tradition.“*

IX

Conclusions

Now to conclude: We have in the foregoing pages
traversed a wide expanse of time covering a period of over
twelve hundred years in our attempt to find out traces of
Buddhism, mainly of the orthodox or Theravada School,
in Burma before Anawrahta’s conquest of Thaton and the
consequent introduction of Theravada Buddhism in Pagan
in about the middle of the eleventh century of the Christian
era. We began naturally with the state of Buddhism in

41. “The scepticism with which modern scholars have received it
is perhaps unmerited, but the preaching of these missionaries, if it
ever took place, cannot at present be connected with other historical
events. Nevertheless, the statement of the Dipavamsa (and also of
the Mahavamsa) is significant. ‘The work was composed in the fourth
century A.D. and taken from older chronicles. It may, therefore, be
concluded that in the early centuries of our era, Burma had the re-
putation of being a Buddhist country.” Eliot, Hinduism and
Buddbism, Ill, pp. 50-51. M. Louis Finot, who is, however, gravely
suspicious of the Buddhaghosa tradition, also thinks that the historicity
of the Asoka mission has been contested without much convincing
reason, 14., XX, 1912, pp. 121 ff In this connection, Taranatha’s
testimony also, I think, deserves consideration. According
to him Hinaynism in the Koki land (which, he states,
included Pukham=Pagan, and Harhsivati=Pegu) was preached from
the days of Afoka onwards, but Mahayinism was not known until
the disciples of Vasubandhu introduced it.

6

Google
122 NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

Thaton when Anawrahta made a conquest of the country
and tracing backwards ended with the tradition of the
Asoka-mission of Sona and Uttara to Suvannabhiimi. Not
all the traces of footprints of the march of the Religion
through all these centuries are, it is true, equally distinct
and pronounced; some of them are absolutely definite and
may be treated as authentic history; some are less certain
resting as they do on certain assumptions not yet definitely
proved, but accepted none the less by all serious scholars
working hypotheses; some even are based merely on
traditions which fall far short of history, but critically
considered they have strong claims to be recognised as
containing germs of sober and authentic history that lie
enmeshed in the thick web of mythical and legendary
details. Somehow, we are thus able to present at least
some unconnected facts in the early history of the most
important school of Buddhism in Burma; and these facts
may be summarised as follows:

(1) Asoka sends a mission headed by Sona and Uttara
to evangelise the land of Suvnnabhimi (C. 250B.C.) This
tradition has some claims to be considered as a fact of

istory.

(2) Chinese travellers Buddhism, a flourishing reli-
gion at Lin-Yang, identical with Prome or some region in
Central Burma (C. 250 A.D.). This point rests on the identi-
fication of Chin-Lin with Chin-ch’en which, however, is
accepted by all scholars.

(3) Buddhaghoga infuses new life into the religion of
the Master in Lower Burma (C. 400-450 A.D.). The charac-
ter of the tradition is suspicious, but circumstantial evidence
lends a colour of probability to it.

(4) Pali as the language of Theravada Buddhism is
known and understood, and Pali canonical texts are
studied and discussed in their doctrinal and most
abstruse aspects (C. 400-450 A.D.) in at least the capital
city of the old kingdom of Prome. This point is absolutely
certain.

Google

EARLY TRACES OF BUDDHISM IN BURMA 123

(5) I-Ching testifies to the prevalence of Buddhism in
‘Srikgetra (Old Prome) and Lang-chia-shu or Laikasu (Tennas-
serim) (C. 675-700 A.D.). This point is absolutely certain;
the identification of Lankasu with Tennasserim is, how-
ever, tentative.

(6) T'ang Chronicles refer to Buddhism as the religion
of the people in the capital of the kingdom of P’iao (=Pyu),
identical with Old Prome (C. 750-850 A.D.). Thi 3 good
as sober history.

(7) Sculptures, bronzes, terracotta votive tablets, epi-
graphic documents, and monuments of the ruined capital of
Old Prome point to a very flourishing condition of the reli-
gion in that kingdom (C. 550-950). This is definite.

(8) Burmese Chronicles refer to the prevalence of
Buddhism in Pegu where it sometimes came into conflict
with Brahmanical Hinduism (C. 1000-1050). This tradition
certainly contains germs of sober and authentic history.

And lastly,

(9) The story of Anawrahta’s conquest of Thaton
points to a very flourishing state of the religion in the
Talaing kingdom towards the middle of the eleventh
century (1057 A.D.).

Google
The Copper-plate of Barabudur, 828 Saka.
By HimaNsu BHUSAN SARKAR

This copper-plate was dug out from the neighbourhood
of Barabudur. Through the intermediary of Mr. Leydie
Melville, Dr. Bosch received this plate for inspection and
he has offered us a transcription of the same.' The date
of the inscription was variously read as 828 and 848, but
the former date appears now to be generally accepted.’

The inscription records a difference of opinion between
the ramantas of Palépangan and the nayaka, viz., bhagawanta
Jyotiga, regarding some sawah-fields. It was maintained
by the latter that these fields measured lamwit 4 and for
each fampah the rdmantas were charged to pay silver 6
dharana. When the rdmantas made representation to the
rakryan mapatih i Hino viz. Pu Dakgottama bahubajra-
pratipakgakgaya, a re-measurement took place and it was
found that the fields measured much less. For each tampah
of these re-measured lands, the raémantas were charged to
pay silver 6 dharana.

This explanation of the inscription differs however from
that of Dr. Bosch who remarked in the Oudheidkundige
Verslag for 1917 that the inscription records a difference
of opinion regarding some principles of Astronomy. I
consider this interpretation of the text to be doubtful,
because Jyotiga is a proper name with the honourable
title of bhagawanta. This title also occurs in other
inscriptions, e. g., in the Sukabhumi inscription of 784 A.D.,
OJO nos. XCVII, XCIX, etc. Besides, the contents of other
portions of this inscription run counter to the view of Dr.
Bosch.

1. OV, 1917, p. 88.
2. For references, see BKI, 75 (1919) p. 8f£; OV, 1920, p. 98 fs
1922, p. 85; 1923, p. 105; Krom, Geschiedenis, p. 186.

Google
es

w

HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR 125

If my interpretation of the text is correct, it would
appear that there were either different standards of
measuring lands in different parts of Jaya (as in medieval
Bengal) or there were abuses in land-measurements. As
the rémas of Palépangan did not agree with sang nayaka
bhagawanta Jyotiga about the measurement of their sawah-
fields, it seems that the bhagawanta could also be connec-
ted with land-measurements, and were not simply
spiritual personages, as seems to be suggested by Prof.
Krom in Geschiednis p. 161 in remark on the
bhagawantas of Culanggi- It also appears that the
institution of the bhagawantas was not exclusively confined
tothe region of Dieng. Itis also noteworthy that in the
dispute between the ramas and the nadyaka-bhagawanta,
the appeal directly lay to the rakrayan mapatih i hino,
who was at this time Dakgottama bahubajrapratipakga-
kgaya. There were also different names for denoting
lands of various sizes, such as blah, suku, tampah,
lamwit, etc. The tampah haji appears to be the royal
standard of measuring lands; the inscription itself says
that | tampah haji=100 dpa sihwax 30 dpa sihwa. Reference
has also been made to lands devoted to the service of
deities. Itis probably the same deities to whom tributes
were brought for worship in the month of Magha. It is
instructive to recall in this connection that the inscription
refers at least to one vihdra, that of Pahai

TEXT

1. ||Oll swasti éakawargatita’ 828......masa tithi agtami*
fukla-pakga; ha; wa; éu; wara irika diwasa
ramanta i palépangan makabehan i

2. nanugrahan wineh makmitana prasasti® de rakryan
mapatih i hino pu dakgottama bahubajra pratipakea-
kgaya samwandhanya sangka i tan patit nikanang

3. Read: ‘rita, 4. Read: “mi. 5. Read: *Sasti.

Google r
126

9

12.

COPPER-PLATE OF BARABUDUR, 828 SAKA

rama lawan sang nayaka bhagawanta jyotiga ikanang
sawahnya sinangguh lamwit 4 kinon ta ya mod
pirak dha 6 i satampah satampah kunang sangl

hétnya tan wnang modhéra samangkana yata matang
yan panamwah ramantairakryan mapatib kinona-
kan sawabnya ukuran‘ ing tampah haji sinangguh

tampah haji satus dpa sihwa pafijangnya singkrénya
tlung puluh dpa sihwa kinon mangukura wadwa
rakryanihino sang brahma muang rowang samgat
pring sakaficur

mijilakanya lamwit | tampah 7 blah | ikana samang-
kana yata kinon modhara pirak dha 6 i satampah
jari ramanta matahil pirak dha

6isatampah satampah pinda pirak patahil ramanta
rikanang sawah lamwit | tampah 7 blah | pirak ka
5 dha 5 len sangké ri pilih mas muang katik prana

8 mara i bhatara prana’ 4 i sang nayaka prana’ 4 pinda
sawah ni katik lamwit | tampah | suku | kina-
behanya sawah ramanta lamwit | blah | katuha la

wan tampah 4 kapkanan tampah | nahan pratyeka
ning sawah ramanta sampunyan inukur i tampah haji
len sumangka rika hana ta sawah bhatara kmitan ra

manta lamwit | dmak ni pajamiila lamwit | tan inukur
ika Span hinanyan swabhawanya muang ladjan pirak
dha 14 patutan pirak dha 4; panurat pira

k ma 4 umijil ri magha winawa sang umikul wali
bhatéta pawdus pirak ma 8 umijil ri watangan
nahan anugraha rakryan mapatih i ramanta i palépa

ngan sapasug banua tatra sakei® samgat pring dapunta
udara anak wanua i srngan pumpunan’ ni bihara
ing pahai amasangakan i rakryan mapatih...

6. Dr. Bosch reads uturan which appears to be a mis-teading

for the above.

7. Read: *na.
8. The correct Ske. form is:
9. Read: punpu’.

Google

a
HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR 127

13. na anak wanu:

yutan waték tira rapu tuha kala’
rikang kala pu barupa pu palini tuha banua pu
kmir pu gamana pu gambir gusti pu karpa pu
aruna pu

14. wari guru pu terafjal pu pradhana mangrangkpi pu
kudbut winkas pu sidha tuha banua i lampahan pu
gammar wariga pu bur huler pu bay na

15. han kweh nira mangagam kon kumayatnakan uja(r)
rakryan mapatih i hino likhita patra citralekha
samgat pring.

TRANSLATION

1, [Ol] Hail! The Saka year expired, 828, the month of

eighth day of the bright half of the month,
haryang, wage,"* Friday. On this day, all the
ramantas of Palépangan

2. were favoured with privileges and were given the pro-
tection of an edict by the rakryan mapatih of Hino
(viz.) Pa Dakgottama bahubajrapratipakeakeaya.
The occasion thereof arose from the fact that the
ramas did not agree

3. with sang nayaka (viz.) bhagawanta Jyotiga’® that their
sawah-fields measured lamwit 4. They were also

10. This appears to be a mistake for: Kalang.

11, A Mal-Polynesian day of the six-day week.

12, A Mal-Polynesian day of the five-day week.

13. While editing this inscription in 1917, Dr. Bosch remarked
that the inscription refers to a difference of opinion regarding some
principles of astrology. I consider this to be doubtful, as Jyotisa
is a proper name with the honourable title of bhagawanta.
This title also occurs in other inscriptions. Besides, the contents of
other portions of this inscription run counter to the view of Dr.
Bosch.

Google
128 COPPER-PLATE OF BARABUDUR, 828 SAKA

charged to pay silver 6 dharana per tampah.
Moreover, on account of their

4. absence (2),"* they were not in a position to pay such
(charges). That is the reason why the ramantas
paid respects to the rakryan mapatih, requesting him
that their sawah-fields may be measured by tampah

1

5. The tampah haji (contained) one hundred dpa sihwa
in length, (while) its breadth was thirty dpa sihwa.
(Accordingly), the wadwa-s of the rakryan of Hino
(viz.) sang Brahma and the assistant (rowang) samgat
Pring,’ (and) sa(ng) Kaficur, were charged to take
the measurement.

6. (Ultimately) their (measurement) appeared to be
lamwit | tampah 7 blah 1. For all these, they
were charged to pay silver 6 dharana per tampah.
Now the rdmanta-s paid (their) dues (viz.) silver
6 dharana

7. per tampah; the total amount of silver as dues against
the ramanta-s in respect of the sawah-fields (mea-
suring) lamwit | tampah 7 blah | was silver 5 kati
5 dharana. Moreover, outside these (stipulations
they shall give) some gold and 8 living animals (?).’*
(Hereof)

14. The text has modhara, whereof the root appears
dbara. The term therefore appears to have the same si
soddbara in soddhara haji (=drawye haji).

15, Hét literally means ‘conceal,’ but the context makes this
interpretation less acceptable.

16. Lit. royal tampab. This measure was probably adopted to
avoid possible abuses in survey.

17. He appears in the réle of a scribe towards the close of the
inscription.

18. Horses? See the remark of Dr. Stutterheim on katik prina
in TBG, 65, p. 241 fin. Or.

Google
HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR 129

8. 4 animals shall come to the deity (bhafara) and 4
animals to sang nayaka. The total amount of sawah-
fields for (the grazing of ?) the living animals (?) shall
be lamwit | tampah | suku I,"* all together. The
sawah-fields of the rdmanta-s shall be lamwit |
blah** 1, of the united body of the tuha-s

9. also 4 tampah-s, of the united body of the apakan-s 1
tampah. Such are the specifications of the sawah-
fields of the ramanta-s: henceforward they are
measured by tampah haji. Moreover, outside these
(specifications), there are the sawah-fields of the
deity (bhafara) to be protected by the

10. ramanta-s: (they are) lamwit |. The gift to the cause
of worship"(?) is lamwit 1. These were not measured
on account of their position and their (rel
character. Moreover, the lafijan(s)”* shall bring silver
14 dharana, the patutan(s)** silver 4 dharana (and)
the panurat(s)** silver

11. 4 méga, as tribute in the month of Magha. Wali-
offerings for the deity (bhatara) consisting of goat(s)
and silver 8 maga, are to be brought by bearers as
tribute at the audience-hall (of the deity). Such is
the favour of the rakryan mapatih to the ramanta-s
of Palépangan,

12. of the whole extent of the village. Witnesses thereof
are: samgat Pring (viz.) dapunta Udara (who is) resi-

19. The remarks of Dr. Stutterheim on this word in Ibid., p. 242
fn, 63 may not be correct.

20. In 1. 6 above, it has been stated that the re-survey of fields
measured lamwit 1 tampab 7 blab 1. Here we notice the omission
of tampab 7 from the share of the rimanta-s. It appears therefore
that this portion was distributed for other purposes. Cf. Il. 8-10.

21. Paja may be a mistake for pu® (Skt. Paja).

22. Apparently a class of people of unknown functions.

23, They may refer to ‘followers’

24. The scribe (3).

7

Google WV 4
330 COPPER-PLATE OF BARABUDUR, 828 SAKA

dent of Srangan in subservience to the vihdra at
Pahai; the amasangakan™ of the rakryan mapatih -.

13. resident of Syutan under Tiru ranu; the tuha kala(ng)-s
of the time (viz.) Pu Barupa, Pu Palini; the tuha
banua-s (viz.) Pu Kmir, Pu Gamana, Pu Gambir}
the gusti-s (viz.) Pu Karna, Pu Aruna, Pu

14. Wari; the guru-s** (viz.) Pu Tarafjal, Pu Pradhana,
the mangrangkpi (viz.) Pu Kudhut; the winkas (viz-)
Pu Sadha ; the tuha banua of Lampahan (viz.) Pu
Gammar; the wariga (viz.) Pu Bur; the huler (viz.)
Pu Bay.

15. Now all of them having powers to pass orders*’ took
care of the words of the rakryan mapatih of Hino.
The writer is the citralekha (viz.) samgat Pring.

25. Slave.
26, Lit. Guru=Teacher. If we consider that guru forms a part
of the name of Wari (thus becoming Wariguru), the following two
names should then be included under the gusti-s,
27. f.e., executive functions.

Google .
MISCELLANY
Recent Researches on Indo-European Fauna
By Dr. BatakrisHNa GHOSH

To give an idea of Nehring’s recent researches on Indo-
European culture and original home,’ it will be best
perhaps to give an account of his treatment of Indo-
European fauna.

Ridgeway and Antonius are of opinion that Bos taurus
brachyceros or longifrons was the type known to the early
Indo-Europeans. Much on the other hand held the view
that those types were at home with the early Iberian popu-
lation of southern Europe, and that the Indo-Europeans
knew only the Primigenius type. Differing from Schrader,
Nehring holds this latter theory to be more accurate. The
occurrence of the brachyceros-type in early and middle
neolithic period in Switzerland suggests that it was known
to the pre-Indo-European peoples of this region. The
Podolic cow of the same type actually occurs in Hungary.
Antonius believes that the northern Balkan States were the
real home region of the Primigenius cow. An East-European
original home of the Indo-Europeans would thus have the
support of zoology and prehistoric archaeology so far as
the Indo-European domestic animal, cow, is concerned.

Zoologists, however, are not unanimous as to the origin-
al region of domestication of the Primigenius cow.
Antonius and Hilzheimer take it to have been the
Mediterranean region and Further Asia, whereas Duerst
suggests Anau and Menghin the whole of Trans-Caspiana
and Western Turkestan. If, then, the Primigenius cow was
actually the bovine type known to the Indo-Europeans,

1 Studien zur indogermanischen Kultur und Urheimat: Pub-
lished by the Institut fiir Volkerkunde an der Universitit Wien, 1936.

Google
132 BATAKRISHNA GHOSH

they could have got it from further Asia and the Mediterra-
nean region as well as from western Inner-Asia. But the
study of the languages may help us to at! greater preci-
sion.

Indo-European words for “‘cow"’, etc., may be divided
into three groups: —

1. Skt. gauh, Av. gaus, Gr. Bois, Arm. Kov, Lat. bos,
Old Irish 66, Old High German kou, Lettish giloos, etc.

2. Skt. ukgan, Av. uxian, Cymr. Ych, Goth. auhsa,
etc.

3. Gr. tadiros, Lat. taurus, Old High German stiur, etc.

The first group is clearly derived from the I.-E. base
*g’6u—which Ipsen (IF. 41, 175f.) has declared to bea
loan-word from Sumerian gu (<gud) “‘bull’’. This will
naturally suggest that the Indo-European cattle-breeding
was derived from the Mediterranean region. Ipsen's other
suggestion regarding agricultural myths of further Asia and
their connection with Indo-European culture are indeed
not convincing. But his suggested d jon of 1.-E. *giou
from Sum. gu(d) is impeccable. In this connection there
arises an interesting problem of prehistoric chronology. It
is now admitted on all hands that the I.-E. base *reudhos
“red, copper’® (whence Skt. loha, Gr. eruthrés, Lat. rubber,
Old Ch. SI. ruda ‘Metal’, etc.) is ultimately derived from
Sum. urud “copper”. But this metal name must have been
taken by the Indo-Europeans from the Sumerians when
the word urud had not yet lost its final consonant, whereas
the original Sumerian word gud ‘‘cow’’ had already be-
come gu when the Indo-European borrowed it from them.
The word for “‘cow"’, therefore, must have been borrowed
long after that for ‘copper’ from the same people. The
final d however began to be dropped in Sumerian in the
first half of the third millennium B.c. It is permissible to
conclude therefore that the domestic animal cow became
known to the Indo-Europeans only after this period. This
however leads to a chronological impossibility, for every-
thing else seems to suggest that the dispersal of the Indo-

Google
RECENT RESEARCHES ON INDO-EUROPEAN FAUNA 133

European tribes had begun before this period—in which
case this loan-word from Sumerian in this form should not
have been known to all the chief Indo-European tribes.
Moreover, I.-E. gt5us is shared by the Indo-lranians to
whom I.-E, agricultural terms are otherwise unknown. At
any rate it shows however that cattle-breeding must have
been older than agriculture among the Indo-Europeans,
and therefore could not have come to them along with the
Mediterranean plough-culture.

The derivation of I.-E. *g-6us from Sumerian has there-
fore to be regarded as a lin; ic poss devoid of
material and historical basis. But this linguistic possibility
deserves to be examined more closely. According to Ipsen
Sum. gu(d) is derived from still older mu(d), which in its
turn very probably goes back to ngu(d). This, however, is
the Chinese word for “‘cow’’ (nga) which’ seems to have
hada final dental originally. Ipsen and Conrady derive
this Chinese word from Sumerian, but is that right? It i
fully established on the evidence of Sumerian sculpture that
they used to practise the vicious custom of blowing into the
vagina of cows for getting more milk. According to
Herodotos, the Scythians used to apply bellows into the
vulva of their mares for the same purpose. It is one of
those customs which the Scythians had brought with them
from the Asiatic steppes where it was known from very
ancient times. Now that the same custom was prevalent
also among the Sumerians, does it not suggest that they
had brought with them cattle-breeding from Inner-A:
particularly as the Inner-Asiatic origin of the Sumerians is
quite probable? Some scholars have suggested on inde-
pendent grounds that originally the Sumerians were the
neighbours of the Chinese in Inner-Asia. (Williams, Ame-
rican Journal of Philology, 1, 2078.) It has moreover to be
remembered that Sumerian has a number of phonological
peculiarities in common not only with Chinese, but also
with Tibeto-Burman dialects. The I.-E. base under
discussion may indeed be concealed in Tibetan glang,

Google
134 BATAKRISHNA GHOSH

go-lang meaning “‘bull’". Yet phonologically it is difficult
to defend the thesis that Sumerian gu(d) was identical with
Chinese nga. We should rather think here of a common
third source, particularly as the proto-Chinese Hoangho-
cultures know only pig and dog but not the cow which was
introduced into this region at a later date and passed on to
Japan via China. Under the circumstances, one is compelled
to think of the Inner-Asiatic cattle-breeding cultures as the
original source. On the other hand, Ural-Altaic and
Tibeto-Burman seem to be connected with Sumerian
through a common linguistic stratum. Particularly in this
connection we have to note that Altaic too, like Sumerian,
knows the mutations g> wand ng>m. In some Altaic
dialects this ng is directly written as g asin Sumerian. All
this taken together seems to suggest that Sumerian ngu(d)
finds its linguistic relations among the Inner-Asiatic
languages. Chinese ngu apparently was not borrowed
from Sumerian, but was transmitted to the Chinese from
Western Asia along with the cattle-breeding culture. By
comparing this far-flung group of words with corresponding
ones in the Altaic dialects Nehring finally comes to the
conclusion that the Sumerian and the Chinese word for
“cow"’ is probably derived from the Altaic or neighbouring
region, The apparent discrepancy between Altaic kuos
and Sumero-Chinese ngu(d) is explained by the phonetic
law obtaining in Altaic according to which a final dental
regularly becomes s.

-It has now to be decided whether I.-E. *gtous was
derived from Sum. ngu(d), as Ipsen suggests, or was
borrowed from Altaic kuos, as Oehl holds. That there
are material objections to derivation from Sumerian has
been shown already. On the other hand, the connection
between the I.-E. form and Altaic kuos is quite possible,
for kuos may after all be nothing but k'os. The final
sibilant of this form might have been felt as the nominative-
ending. The I.-E. stem *g%Su- thus might have been easily
derived from Altaic kuos. Since it is not possible to

Google
RECENT RESEARCHES ON INDO-EUROPEAN FAUNA 135,

explain the occurrence of this word in so man;
simply on the theory of borrowing from the or!
European as chronological considerations will not at all
brook such a possibi we have to assume that the stem
in question was originally at home in the Altaic region
whence it spread eastwards to China and thence to Sumer
on the one hand, and on the other to the earliest Indo-
Europeans before they began to spread out on Eurasia.
This would suggest that the original home of the Indo-
Europeans was somewhere near the Ural-Altaic region.

In dealing with the horse too Nehring attacks the prob-
lem at first from the view-point of prehistoric archeeology
and zoology and comes to the conclusion in this respect that
the Indo-European horse-culture could have been derived
only from the Altaic, but not from the Uralic culture. But
the Altaics could not have been the immediate source.
Why? Because the use of the horse in the two cultures
seems to have been fundamentally different. The Altaics
used the horse for food, but the earliest Indo-Europeans—:
Nehring argues differing from Schrader—used the horse prin-
cipally for drawing the chariot. The horse was of course
also eaten by them, but that only in course of sacrificial
orgies. This explains the rarity of horse finds at the site of
the Tripolje-culture which is considered to be the oldest
traceable home, if not the original home, of the Indo-
Europeans, for it is quite obvious that only the princelings
could afford the luxury of chariots to draw which the horses
were necessary. Nehring further develops the idea that the
horse among the Altaics was used to draw four-wheeled
carriages, but the Indo-Europeans struck an innovation
by harnessing them to two-wheeled chariots.

These considerations should help us now to clear up the
tangle around the I.-E. stem *ek'os: Skt. a’va — which
notoriously fails to satisfy the demands of the cognate stems
in other I.-E. languages. First of all ithas to be borne
in mind that as an O-stem the I.-E. ek’os must have been
a very late acquisition to the original idiom. The spiritus

Google
136 BATAKRISHNA GHOSH

asper in the Greek form is a stumbling block, but it has to be
noted that in compounds like ‘Alkippos’ it is missing. The
sp. asp. may however be the outcome of an original i.
Moreover, how to explain the i in the first syllable of the
Greek form? It has to be admitted that Skt. asva and
hippos are phonologically irreconcilable, and yet they are
similar enough, both in form and meaning, to suggest a
common origin—which, under the circumstances, could have
been some non-Indo-European language: the various I.-E.
tribes, evidently, could not reproduce this loan-word in the
same way in their different dialects. After a strenuous search
for the possible source of this loan-word Nehring at last
comes to the conclusion that Turkish okki meaning ‘‘pair’
may furnish the clue. The word for ‘‘ "has in various
languages actually come to signify “horse Here again we
find that the I.-E. word for ‘horse’ too was very probably
derive from an Altaic language.

As for the goat, prehistoric archeology and zoology
seem to suggest that various species of this animal were
known to the different Indo-European tribes. This is reflect-
ed also in the I.-E. dialects, for there we find no less than
nine distinct stems for goat:(1) *aig-, (2) *ago-, (3) *bhugo-,
(4) *qago-, (5) *kapro-, (6) *gabhro-, (7) *ghaido-, (8)
*digha-, (9) *qato-. Now all of them are o or a stems,—
which shows that the words in question were of the latest
stratum of Indo-European vocabulary. Moreover, the first
three stems belong almost exclusively to the eastern dialects,
and the rest almost exclusively to the west. Six of these
nine stems are represented in Germanic. These ieoglosses
clearly suggest that the original home of the tribes concern-
ed should have stretched from the steppes in the east to the
hilly tracts in the west. The flat South Russia could not
have been the original breeding-ground of the goat which
is most at home in the hills. This explains the preponder-
ance of the hilly west in the I.-E. designations for goat.

The consideration of the pig is of peculiar importance in
an enquiry about Indo-European fauna, for the pig is not

Google
RECENT RESEARCHES ON INDO-EUROPEAN FAUNA 137

an animal which can be marched from one country to
another over long distances. Nomadic tribes, the Turco-
Tartare, for instance, have no pigs. Only comparatively
settled peoples could have bred pigs. Two
were used by the Indo-Europeans to designate tl
(I) sa-s, (Gr. sits, Lat. siis, etc.); Skt. sahara is to be divided
into Suk-ara, for a stem extended by a guttural can be
actually found in other I.-E. languages, e.g. O. Irish socc,
Gr. sika, ete. (2) *porko- (Lat. porcus, Lith. parszas, O. Ch.
Sl. prase; etc.). There are some stems which did not enjoy
such wide popularity, e.g. Lat. sper : O.H.G. ebur; Gr.
choiros : Alb. der, etc. The first thing to note about them
is that they are o-stems and therefore must be later than
“sa- *siq-. It has been suggested that the wild boar was
designated by the stem *siiq-, while “porkos signified the
tame household pig which the Indo-Europeans learnt to
breed at a later time when they gradually went over to
agriculture. Indeed, agricultural terms are directly derived
from the word for pig, for English furrow, for instance,
is connected with Lat. porca. In Old Irish socc me
“plough”. It is clear therefore that the pig-breeding
Indo-Europeans must have been agriculturists—at least
partially. But that is not all. Nehring further shows that
the I.-E. stem ‘sii (k)- for wild boar. was very probably
borrowed from the Finno-Ugrian dialects.
To sum up:

(1) In the case of some of the animals, it would be
improbable or quite impossible to localise their breeding in
Northern Europe.

(2) There is nothing however against localising them in
South-East Europe.

(3) In most cases the origin of the animal concerned or
breeding of the same must be referred to Asit

(4) Striking similarities with the designations of the
animals in Asiatic languages could not have been fortuitous.
Indo-European cattle-breeding must have been largely
determined by Asiatic influences.

8

Google
Recent advances in Kambuja studies
By Dr. B. R. CHATTERJEE

Southern and Eastern India seem to have been in close
touch from very remote times with Indo-China and the
Malay Archipelago. Professor Sylvain Lévi has given ample
evidence from linguistic and cultural data of intimate rela-
tions in prehistoric times between the peoples inhabiting
the western and eastern coasts of the Bay of Bengal. His
conclusions may be summed up in his own words :—"‘Adven-
turers, merchants and missionaries (in later times) followed,
under better conditions of comfort and efficiency, the way
traced from time immemorial by the mariners of another
race (Mon-Khmér), whom Aryan India despised Bes.
Recent ethnological researches confirm this theory.

We shall confine ourselves in this short sketch to the
spread of Indian cultural influences in Cambodia during the
period for which we have recorded history. What was at
first only commercial intercourse (between India and Indo-
China and the Malay Archipelago) was followed about the
first century A.D. by political influence. As Winstedt
writes:( JRAS, Malay Branch, March, 1935). ‘‘The old
Indian trade in beads of semi-precious stones antedated by
centuries the coming of the Hindus at the beginning of the
Christian era.... The arrival of Hindus in the Malay world
was neither sudden, violent nor overwhelming. A ship or
so came with the monsoon to exchange beads for gold, tin,
camphor, etc... Here and there a passenger won regard as
a warrior or worker in magic. Some married local brides.
Priests came with the Sanskrit lore. The coming of the
Hindu might have been very similar to the later arrival of
the Muslim from India and Arabia.”

Information from Chinese sources, supplemented by a
Campa (Annam) inscription, point to a Kaundinya as the
founder of the first important Hinduised State in Indo-China
known to us by the name of Fii-nan (the Chinese version of

Google

RECENT ADVANCES IN KAMBUJA STUDIES 139

@ vernacular name). This probably happened in the first
century A.D. A second Kaundiny: 0 visited Fii-nan via
the Isthmus of Kra and is said to have completely ‘Indian-
ised’ the country. The Kaundinyas seem to have been very
influential in South India in the second century A.D. A
second century (Mysore) inscription of a Cutu Satakarni
king and a fourth century inscription of a Kadamba king
record grants of land, in connection with a Siva shrine, to
Brahmanas of the Kaundinya gotra. From the second
inscription it appears that the donee, a Brahmana of the
Kaundinya gotra, was related to the donor, the Kadamba
king. The Kaundinyas, who went to Fii-nan, might have
belonged to this aristocratic Brahmana family of South
India—(JBORS, 1933).

The Chinese name Fii-nan represents the old Khmér
word unam (in modern Khmér Phnom) which means a hill.
(Khmér is the Cambodian vernacular). Gerini proposed to
identify the capital of ancient Fii-nan with the site now
called Ba Phnom (Vrah Vnam in old Khmer). M. Goedés has
now accepted this identification. The capital of Fi-nan,
according to Goedés, was at the foot of the hill Ba Phnom
and it was known as Vyadhapura for centuries in Cambodian
history. Ba Phnom is very near the apex of the delta of the
Mekong. Fii-nan (was Sri Saila the Sanskrit equivalent?)
developed into a large and powerful state. It came to
include not only modern Cambodia, but also Laos, Cochin
China, Siam and a considerable portion of the Malay
Peninsula. Within this large sphere of influence there were
principalities like that of the Kambujas (Cambodians)
attached to Fii-nan only by a loose tie of allegiance.

The Chinese chronicles were our only sources of informa-
tion about Fii-nan till M. Qoedés deciphered in 1931 two
inscriptions, one Vaignava and the other Buddhist in sub-
ject-matter, which may safely be attributed to this Fii-nan
period of Indo-Chinese history. The first inscription, of a
royal prince Gunavarman, is closely related on account of the
archaic nature of its writing to certain inscriptions of Borneo,

Google
140 B. R. CHATTERJEE

Campa and Java which have been accepted as belonging to
the fourth or early fifth century A. D. by epigraphists. In fact,
the scrjpt is of a much earlier type than that of the inscrip-
tions of Bhavavarman, the earliest hitherto known king in
Cambodia, which belong to the middle of the sixth century.
A.D. Again the second inscription mentions by name two
kings described in Chinese chronicles as the last two monar-
chs of Fii-nan reigning in the first half of the sixth century.
This second inscription on paleographical grounds
acems to belong t iter date (early sixth century) than the
first inscription, which, therefore, should be attributed to
probably the first half of the fifth century A. D.

The introductory lines of the first inscription are illegible.
But in the second half of it we are told that Gunavarman,
son of king (name illegible), had established on this earth
the impress of the feet of Bhagavan. On the eighth day,
this holy object, consecrated by Brahmanas well-versed in
the Vedas, Upavedas, and Vedaigas, was proclaimed by
learned sages throughout the world as Cakratirthasvami.
Inthe concluding stanzas it is stated that all that had been
donated to Bhagavan should be at the disposal of all pious
Bhagavatas, and that the mahatma, who would carefully
look after the property of the god, would attain the supreme
bliss of Vignuloka.

This recently deciphered inscription, which probably
belongs to the first half of the fifth century A.D., is the
earliest inscription hitherto discovered in Cambodi

In 484 a. D., Jayavarman Kaundinya of Fii-nan sent an
envoy tothe Imperial court of China. This envoy, who
was a monk of the name of Sakya Nagasena, told the
Emperor of China that the cult of the god Maheévera
flourished in Fi-nan. The god had his perpetual abode on
Mount Motan where auspicious trees grew in abundance.
This sacred mountain may now be identified with the hill
called Ba Phnom.

The second of the Sanskrit criptions of Fii-nan
belongs to the reign of Rudravarman, the successor of

Google

st
RECENT ADVANCES IN KAMBUJA STUDIES 141

Jayavarman. It begins with an invocation to the Buddha
“whose compassionate mind is devoted to the good of
others”. Then follows an eulogy of king Rudravarman.
After this we find that king Jayavarman, father of king
Rudravarman, appointed as inspector of royal property the
son of a pious Bréhmana. The last portion is illegible. As
Rudravarman is mentioned by Chinese historians as reigning
in 539 A. D., this inscription isto be attributed to the first
half of the sixth century A.D, Soon after this Fii-nan wai
pushed into the background by its vassal State Chen-la
(Chinese name for Kambuja or Cambodia). This happened
about the middle of the sixth century A.D. From this
period begins a long succession of Sanskrit and Khmér (the
Cambodian vernacular) inscriptions which become our chief
source of information regarding Kambuja or Cambodia.

We have already mentioned that Fi-nan, whose rulers
traced their descent from Kaundinya and resided at
Vyadhapura, counted among their feudatories the rulers of
Kambuja (in Chinese Chen-la) who had made Sresthapura
(Vat Phu) their capi The Kambuja princes, who traced
their descent from Rei Kambu, rapidly grew in power, and
the first two princes whose names we know—Srutavarman
and Sresthavarman—made Kambuja independent of Fii-nan.
“They liberated the people from the chains of tribute”
(Baksei Chamkron inscription). On the death of Rudra-
varman, the last monarch of Fii-nan mentioned in Chinese
annals, there was a dispute as regards the succession to
the throne. Bhavavarman, who was the ruler of Kambuja
at this time and who was also related to Rudravarman (who
might have been Bhavavarman’s maternal grandfather)
seized this opportunity to conquer part of Fii-nan with the
help of brother Citrasena known as Mahendravarman
when he ascended the throne afterwards. Fii-nan was not
completely destroyed. The monarchs of Fii-nan retreated to
the region south of their ancient capital Vrah Vnam. But
Fii-nan ceased to be the paramount power in Indo-China as
it had been hitherto,

Google
142, B. R. CHATTERJEE

The conquest of Fii-nan was completed by Iéanavarman,
the son and successor of Mahendravarman, who seized the
ancient capital Vrah Vnam. Chinese historians mention
Iganavarman as the conqueror of Fii-

Thus fell Fii-nan—probably the earliest of the Indianised
kingdoms in Indo-China. Till very recently all our infor-
mation about it was derived solely from Chinese sources.
Now we know from the two Sanskrit inscriptions deciphered
in 1931 that Vaignavism as well as Buddhism flourished side
by side with the cult of Siva inthis realm. Indeed, the
earliest sculptures discovered hitherto on Cambodian soil
are Buddhist and belong to the Gupta school of art. They
may be safely assigned to the Fi-nan period. I-teing
laments at the end of the 7th century that the law of Buddha,
which had prospered in Fii-nan, had been completely
destroyed by a wicked king—probably a successor of
Téanavarman and a staunch Saiva (the whole dynasty being
fervent worshippers of Siva). The inscriptions of Cambodia
begin with Bhavavarman’s reign. As regards technique,
Kambuja epigraphy shows generally a symmetry and
elegant finish but rarely found in Indian inscriptions and the
literary skill shown in some of them is of a high order.

A new inscription of Iéanavarman has been discovered
recently at Sambor. It commemorates the consecration
of a Siva linga in 549 s.£. (627 A.D.) by the Brahmana
Vidyavisega—a high official of king Isanavarman. Vidya-
viSega, the pious founder, according to this inscription,
possessed a sound knowledge of Sanskrit grammar, the
systems of Samkhya, Vaiéegika, Nyaya and Buddhism.
It should be noted that Buddhism has been placed here
among the orthodox systems of Hindu philosophy.

To the reign of Iéanavarman should also be a:
the brick temples of Sambor, Hindu shrines con!
some cases of groups of buildings, in other cases of isolated,
structures crowned with a prasat or tower. The orna-
mental work is sober and resembles Gupta art. Indeed,
North-Indian influence is more apparent than that of

Google
RECENT ADVANCES IN KAMBUJA STUDIES 143

South India in Cambodian architecture of the seventh
century.

Kambuja history during the greater part of the eighth
century is a blank. Anarchical conditions prevailed as
the realm was split up among rival powers. In the genea-
logies of later kings, e. g-, Yagovarman and Rajendravar-
mat recorded in their inscriptions, we find that the chief
object is to link up these ninth and tenth century monarchs
with all the ancient dynasties which ruled in succession
or simultaneously in the realm which Jayavarman Il suc-
ceeded in unifying. Thus Yaéovarman (889-910 4. D.)
and ndravarman (944-968 A.D.) claim the heritage of
Vyadhapura (capital of old Fi-nan), Sambhupura (capital,
after Sresthapura, of old Kambuja—the Land Chen-la of
the Chinese) and Aninditapura (the Water Chen-la of the
Chinese). The anarchy of the eighth century was probably
due to the rivalry of these contending states. Vyadhapura
has been identified with Ba Phnom. The inscription of
Vat Cakret in the vicinity of Ba Phnom (which, we have
already seen, was the Khmér equivalent of the Chinese
name of Fii-nan) records a donation by Hargavarman I to
Adrivyadhapureéa (Siva of Vyadhapura on the hill). Till
recently Vyadhapura had been identified with Ankor Borei
on the other side of the river Mekong.

Sambhupura is the present Sambor on the Mekong.
The main reason why Yaéovarman is anxious to be linked
with the rulers of Sambhupura is that Jayavarman II
belongs to Sambhupura. On his return from Java it was
in the vicinity of Sambhupura that Jayavarman Il first es-
tablished himself.

Aninditapura is to be traced to the east of Angkor on
the north bank of the Great Lake. In Rajendravarman’s
genealogy that monarch traces his descent from Baladitya,
King of Aninditapura, who claimed descent from Kaundinya
—the founder of Fii-nan. Either the last princes of the
ancient realm of Fii-nan shifted from Vyadhapura (after
its capture by Iéanavarman) to Aninditapura, or it was a

Google
144 B. R CHATTERJEE

branch of the dynasty of Bhavavarman of Kambuja which,
pitting itself against the other branch made Aninditapura
its headquarters. Bhavavarman and his successors, after
their conquest of Fii-nan, also claimed descent from
Kaundinya like the Fii-nan monarchs whom they had over-
thrown. Either this was an attempt to represent themselves
as the legitimate rulers of the realm as they (Bhavavarman
and his successors) might really have been related to the
last monarchs of

In any case it was Jayavarman Il (latter part of the 9th
century to 854 A. who closed this period of anarchy by
bringing about again the unity of Kambuja. The inscription
of the High Priests of Devaraja (the Royal God) gives us
interesting information about some events of his reign. We
learn from this record that he came from Java (was he an
exile there?) and invited a Brahmana from ‘janapada’ (his
own country Sambhupura?) to draw up a ritual. This Bra-
hmana taught the royal purohita four texts (Vinasika, Nayot-
tara, Sammoha and Siraécheda) and drew up a ritual for the
worship of Deva Raja, the tutelary deity of Kambuja. Some
of these texts have been traced by Dr. P. C. Bagchi in the
Nepal Durbar Library. Siraécheda seems to be identical with
the Jayadrathayamala of which a copy exists in Nepal.
Naya- and Uttara siitras (together constituting Nayottara)
form a part of the Nigvastattoasamhita in the Nepal Library.
Vinaéika seems to have been a supplement to the
Jayadrathayamala. These Tantras were therefore of North-
Indian origin. In the Brahmayamala, three of the texts,
Nayottara, Sammoha, and Siragcheda, are referred to as
issuing from the left current (vdmasrota).

What was this ‘Java’ from which place Jayavarman II
came to reign in Kambuja? Till recently Java was identified
with Zabaj or Srivijaya. This identification was based on
the supposition that the Bayon, originally a Mahayana
temple, was begun in Jayavarman Il’s reign. Now
that we are sure that the Bayon belongs to a much
later date, we need not stick to the identification

Google
-

RECENT ADVANCES IN KAMBUJA STUDIES 145,

of ‘Java’ with Srivijaya. It is likely that Jayavarman II
came of Java itself where a cult resembling that of the
Devaraja was already flourishing.

Jayavarman II not only introduced Tantric Saivism, he
is also represented in the inscriptions as having built many
capitals one after another. The first capital Indrapura
wae near the ancient Sambhupura which seems to have
been Jayavarman’s ancestral home. The other capitals
were near the Great Lake (Tonle Sap) which region from
this time becomes the political centre of Kambuja. Of
these capitals but few traces remain, as being only tempo-
rary residences they were built of perishable material,
The golden age of Khmér architecture had not yet begun.
A group of three brick towers of the 9th century, on the
site of Bantiay Kedei is the first vestige of pre-Angkor art at
Angkor and has now been accepted asa hitherto un
covered capital of Jayavarman Il. Jayavarman II's reign
came to a close in 854 A. D. and not in 869 A.D. as hitherto
supposed. The latter date (869) was based on a wrong
rendering of a damaged inscription. That does not mean
that Jayavarman Il had not a long reign. He began his
reign not in 802 A.D., as is generally supposed. In that
year he founded his capital on Mahendra Parvata after
having abandoned three previous capitals.

(To be continued)

Google
REVIEWS

Netherlands Indit Stupy of PLURAL Economy—By J. S.
Furnivall, Cambridge University Press. pp. 502+ xxi
1938

The author of this comprehensive study of the Dutch
East Indies is a retired member of the Indian Civil Service,
who after his period of service in Burma has been carrying
on research stu as Honorary Research Fellow of the
University of Rangoon. His contact with Burma has led him
to the impression that ‘‘much as England has Europe for its
background, so Burma has for its background the tropical
Far East’ and hence his investigations of the political, social
and economic history and development of that part of the
Far East which has been under Dutch sovereignty for more
than three centuries. Undoubtedly there are close socio-
economic analogies between Burma and India: in fact, the
author begins his study of the Indies by a brief historical
reference to the process of colonisation of the “Other India”
from Continental Indi:

Netherlands India, picturesquely described as ‘‘a girdle of
emerald, flung round the Equator,” comprises the whole
Malayan archipelago, except the Philippines and parts of
New Guinea, Borneo and Timor, and covers an area of 7
lakhs of square miles. Controlling, in a manner, the two
gateways into eastern waters—Malacca and Sunda straite—
its strategic importance is of no mean consequence to both
the defence of British Empire in Asia and Australia and
the Dutch Government in Batavia and the Hague. As a
result of recent events Amboyna is being developed, like
Singapore, though on a much smaller scale, as a great
arsenal, ite harbour is being reconstructed and the garrison
reinforced. In the world's economy the crucial position of
the Dutch Indies may be realised from the fact that in 1937
80 per cent. of the world’s export of pepper, 38 per cent. of

Google
REVIEWS 147

the world's export of rubber, 30 per cent. of the world’s ex-
port of cocoanut palm, came from the Dutch Indies, which
are also well-supplied with petroleum, tin sugar, tea, oil-
seeds, copra and cinchona.’ Apart from these, the Dutch
Indies offers to the student a rich source of comparative
study in administrative technique, treatment of the ‘native’
people, and above all the social, educational and economic
characteristics of what forms the sub-title of the work—a
plural economy. Mr. Furnivall admirably succeeds in his
task of “depicting stage by stage throughout the course of
history, the general political and economic environment of
Netherlands India, and at tracing in each stage the course
of economic progress and the main features of social eco-
nomy.”” To the Indian reader the study is not only informa-
tive but distinctly stimulating, particularly in the subjects of
‘native’ schools and Dutch schools, the methods of local
government, the racial cleavages, the development of
nationalism and communism amongst the sons of the soil,
the undercurrent of the rivalry in the course of the European
attempts at exploitation of the resources of the country, and
Jast but not least in importance, the arrangements at the
plantations run by the government and private capitalists.
Some of the salient features of Dutch colonial rule are
worth noting, particularly because in recent years Dutch
experiments have been recommended to the notice of India.
Till the dawn of the 19th century, except round Batavia, a
trading company flying the Dutch flag plied their trade. The
story of two centuries of the company’s monopoly of trade
and the final collapse bear resemblances to the British East
India Company's record in India. Mr. Furnivall in discuss-
ing why the English Company survived and the Dutch fail-
ed, ascribes the cause neither to corruption nor defects in
accounts nor the policy of monopoly, but to (a) the Indus-
trial Revolution in England which created a cl in the
‘mother-country’ which wanted to sell goods to the colony

1 Vide, The Economist (London) May 27, 1939.

Google

148 REVIEWS

as well, and (b) the rigid Dutch system of government
which did not allow the right of parliamentary scrutiny
to penetrate the dark spots of the regime of the Dutch
Company. The occasion of the failure of the company was,
of course, furnished by the war with England (1781-84),
followed by years of confusion until in 1815 the Dutch
monarchy took over the coloni Crown farms with enfor-
ced planting of indigo, sugar, and coffee were established
and taxes were realised in kind. Till 1870 the system
continued with various modifications. In that year the
door was opened to private traders, and capitalists could
hire land from ‘natives’ on lease for planting. The era
of liberalism did not mean, however, any repudiation of
batig slot, the surplus revenue to spend in Europe. The
twentieth century ushered in a new Imperialism; *
welfare became a definite programme of Government; the
Outer Provinces began to receive a new attention due to
the growing demand for raw materials for Eur-American
industrial development.

The political approach also underwent a vital change.
The traditional structure of Dutch colonial administration
was based on the principle of a plural civil service and
administration for the “‘natives and Europeans. There
were areas which were indirectly ruled through native
rulers in state lands, governed according to native customs.
In 1903 Idenburg's Decentralization Law set up local
councils of Europeans and natives with advisory powers
and in 1918 the volksraad or representative Parliament for
Central Indian affairs was created. Yet true decentralize-
tion is yet tocome. The author furnishes one explanation
of the reluctance to transfer the power of taxation and
spending to popular bodies. ‘‘The English tradition in
government is to maintain law and order, and beyond that
to interfere no further than is necessary; the Dutch, with
their heritage of Roman law, expect more of government,
and the delegation of authority is therefore more difficult,
just as only a simple organism can reproduce by fission’™.

Google
REVIEWS 149

It is only in urban areas that successful and real local
government and many of the towns are models in
several respects. The reason for the grant of powers to
these municipalities is that they are mostly run by
Europeans for Europeans.

Mr. Furnivall’s treatise bears the appropriate sub-title
“A Study in Plural Economy’’. A plural society has been
defined as ‘‘comprising two or more elements or social
orders which live side by side, yet without mingling, in one
political unit". They are to be found dependencies
where the rulers and the ruled belong to different rac:
The native, European and Chinese elements of the popul:
tion, their economic, educational and administrative pro-
blems, and the sectionalism—all present features, analogies
of which will appear to every Indian reader's mind. ‘‘The
fundamental character of the organization of a plural
society as a whole is indeed the structure of a factory
organized for production, rather than of a state organized
for the good life of ite members’. It should be noted,
however, that industrial capitalism has its own method of
levelling down differences and in recent years the domina-
tion over agricultural and rural interest by urban and
industrial interests is becoming more and more marked.

Placed between the Chinese and the European
enterpriser and trader, it is remarkable that the natives
have been gradually building up their business in spite of
the so-called “non-economic” characteristic of the people.
On the other hand, the village-system, as developed under
successive administrations, under the headman and with the
autonomy and self-regulation allowed through village
institutions is, to say the le: evidence of Dutch zeal.
Though criticised as ‘artificial’, much of the welfare
instructions of the Netherlands Indian Social Economy may
well be studied for experimentation and adaptation in
British India.

Though Holland's paternalistic administration has a
record no worse than that of other countries, new forces

Google
150 REVIEWS

have been released both within the Dutch East Indies as
well as outside. The depression reduced the annual value
of exports from Netherlands India to even one-fifth of the
1925 level and a rapid progress towards industrialisation is
regarded as the only alternative to lessen the dependence
on the shifts in world prices of her raw materials. Politically
also Netherlands India has reached a critical stage in her
development. Netherlands India is no longer a source of
profit to the mother country, in fact, Holland is repaying her
“Debt of Honour’ to the colony by having taken over the
debts of Netherlands India: still the bureaucracy-ridden
country finds herself with unbalanced and meagre budgets.
The new Constitution of 1927 has been somewhat still-born
and nationalism in the colonies is tinctured by racial as
well as Moslem antipathy. Professor Bousquet of the
University of Algiers published a book from Paris a few
months ago which reveals how nationalist agitation and
political reform in Netherlands India are closely intertwined
with Moslem aspirations. British Indian events have played
a great part in shaping the nationalist movement in these
islands. The native population, homogeneous in culture
and religion, is free from caste. The women “‘are even
freer than in Buddhist Burma". The result has been the
gradual drift towards extremism, all the politically-minded
elements aiming at ‘‘breaking loose from the Netherlands’.
Holland at last is facing economic and political issues,
which sooner or later has had to be faced by all Imperial
countries. Lord Hailey’s ‘African Survey” and the British
Colonial Office Report (1938) tell how the British people
have tackled and intend to tackle similar problems.
There can be no doubt that a new technique of
imperialism suitable to a ‘phase of contracting capitalism’
(to use Professor Laski’s expressive phrase) is gradually
emerging in the colonial empires of western nations.

Mr. Furnivall’s treatise is not only a learned and
exhaustive study of a neighbouring colony of another
European country, but is a distinct contribution to the

Google
REVIEWS 151

knowledge of the student of comparative administration and
econo! Not only inthe past, but even to-day by a
curious irony of circumstances, the problem of Netherlands
India is in more than one respect similar to and compar-
able with analogous developments in British India.
Here is another instance to prove that the study of Greater
India cannot be concerned with the past only, but must
relate to the present and also the future, where closer and
natural politico-economic links are sure to be forged
between India and her neighbours.

BENOYENDRANATH BANERJEE

Concepts of Buddhism:—By Dr. Bimala Churn Law,
Ph.D., M.A., B.L. Published by the Kern Institute, Leiden,
1937.

It is refreshing to go through Dr. B. C. Law's Concepts of
Buddhism, dealing, as it does in a terse style, with the
principal concepts of Pali Buddhism. Throughout all the
writings of Dr. Law, one cannot but be impressed with the
indefatigable industry bestowed by him on putting together
all the available materi: nd focussing them on particular
topics. We appreciate his work of this nature which, as it
appears to our mind, is to leave the reader free to form
his own opinion about a particular topic. The present
work is no exception to his usual method and thorough
ness. The one desideratum which every modern student
of Buddhism will miss is that Dr. Law confines his
attention wholly to the Pali literature and never turns to
the Buddhist Sanskrit literature, Hinayana or Mahayana,
nor takes notice of the contributions made by dis-
tinguished writers of the present day. His undue reli-
ance on Buddhaghoga has made his interpretations in several
instances traditional, e.g. his comments on the word ‘tatha-
gata’, his exposition of the ‘ariyasaccas’ and the ‘paticca-

Google
152 REVIEWS

samuppada’. But we thank him for the amount of energy
devoted by him for bringing together the traditional inter-
pretations of ‘Dhamma’ and ‘Nibbana’. It is unfortunate
that Dr. Law avoids giving any definite opinion about the
controversial issues. It is, however, interesting to note that
the author’ holds that ‘dhamma’ according to Buddha is
‘nibbana’ while it is ‘swarga’ according to Asoka (p. 76).
In Chapter Ill, the author deals with ‘“‘Paramita’”’ and remarks
that “references (to Paramita) are scattered here and there
in the Pali Nikayas” (p. 9). We are afraid that this remark
is not sufficiently cautious, for “‘paramita’’ does not occur
either in the Angutta-Nikaya or the Sangiti-suttanta where
these should have found a place in any event, not to speak
of any other Nikaya. The “Paramita’’ doctrine is originally
non-Theravéda and it is a later development. He refers to
the only Mahayanic treatise Sraddhotpada-siitra the origin-
ality of which is still a matter of controversy and has not a
word about the voluminous Mahayanic literature on prajfid-
paramita. We do not quite follow Dr. Law when he says
that the “‘ariyasaccas are regarded as quintessence of
Buddhism’. The ariyasaccas are universally accepted and
there is nothing particularly Buddhistic in the formulee. All
that it stands for is how to approach a problem and find
olution. We do not quite follow him as also does
. Keith (see p. viii) when he says “‘jhdna is the main
point in the Noble Eightfold path’ instead of samma-ditthi.
In the chapter on Jhdnas, Dr. Law regards “the five jhanas
a somewhat later classification which had developed out
of the four jhanas". The classification of jhdnas into four
or five is not of much importance. The first two jhanas
are sometimes expanded into three thus: (i) Savitakka-
savicara, (ii) sa-vitakka-avicara and (iii) avitakka-avicara.
The jhanas have been dealt with by Dr. N. Dutt and Mons.
Lounsbery exhaustively in their writings on Buddhist medi-

1 See in this connection p. 33 in which the opinion attributed
to Dr, N, Dutt is gratuitous.

Google
REVIEWS 153

tation (Vide I-H.Q. Vol. XI, pp- 710-740 and La Meditation
Bouddhique, Paris, 1935). The treatment of the jhanas,
I am afraid, lacks a grasp of the subject on the part of the
author. Scholars have so far failed to agree about the
Buddhist conception of Puggala, so Dr. Law has done well
in presenting the important discussions found in the Pali
texts. Profs. Stcherbatsky and la Vallée Poussin have devot-
‘ed long discussions to the subject and the author has not a
word to say about their opinions. He gives his own idea
of the Buddhist conception of Puggala which is that there
is no soul and rebirth is ‘“‘the continuity of an impulse’.
As the author's object is mainly to explain the concepts of
Buddhism, we must say that he has acquitted himself well
of his task and the book will serve as a very useful hand-
book to our students of Pali and Ancient Indian culture.

D.

The Bhadramayakaravyakarana, INTRODUCTION, TIBETAN

‘TEXT, TRANSLATION AND NOTES—By Konstanty Régamey. The
Warsaw Society of Sciences and Letters. Publications of
the Oriental Commission, No. 3.

The Warsaw Society of Sciences and Letters is rendering
a substantial service to the study of ancient Indian culture
by publishing rare Buddhist texts. The present one is the
second one of this series, the first being three chapters from
Samadhiraja siitra. Dr. Régamey points out the importance
of the Ratnakita collection of Mahayana-sitras and intends
to publish the texts of this collection gradually. This is
undoubtedly a laudable ambition and we hope the author
will have time, patience and due encouragement and
support to carry out such an arduous task. It is really
unfortunate that the Sanskrit originals of 43 out of 49 texts
of this collection are lost unless some chance discovery like
that of Gilgit MSS. in Kashmir or of Rahula Sankrityayana
in Tibet brings them to light. Dr. Régamey is perhaps not
aware that the Naigai-shuppen-Kaisha (Printing Press),

10

Google
154 REVIEWS

Kyoto, (Japan), has published an edition of the Tibetan text
of Srimaladevi-simhandda-sitra and Ratnacandrapariprecha.

The treatise belongs to the Vyakarana class, as it fore-
tells the future of Bhadra. The Buddhist texts, specially
the Mahayanic, abound in similar anecdotes and parables to
establish that the world around us has no more existence
than the things produced by a magician by magical tricks,
and this idea has been well-expressed from the texte by
Dr. Régamey in these words (p. 7): ‘“‘The enjoyments and
gains of all beings are created by the maya of karman, this
order of monks is created by the maya of dharma; 1
(Buddha) am created by the maya of jfidna, the trisahasra-
mahasahasra-lokadhatu is created by the maya of Viéva-
bhinivrtti and all the dharmas are created by the maya of
pratyayasambhara’’. Incidentally the question of soul is
discussed and the qualities of Bodhisattvas are dilated upon.
The Arguttara-nikaya style of mentioning the qualities of
a Bodhisattva is interesting.

The author’s restoration of Sanskrit words from Tibetan
is happy and has added much to the value of the text.
The English language suffers from the defects unavoidable
by a foreigner, e. g. inreality for unreality, allocution for
elocution, inexistent for non-existent, but that can detract
from the value of the book. Dr. Régamey has indeed
accomplished a laudable task and we wish he would
continue his work in this line with unabated zeal.

NacinaksHa Dutt

SUVARNADVIPA, Part Il—Cultural History (Ancient

Indian Colonies in the Far East, Vol. Il). By Dr. R. C.
Majumdar, M.A., Ph.D. xiv+354 pp., Index, and Plates
(Nos. I-LXXV), Calcutta, 1938.

With the publication of the present volume the learned
author has advanced a step further towards the com-
pletion of his laudable project of giving a comprehensive
survey of Hindu cultural expansion in South-Eastern Asia,

Google
REVIEWS 155

We notice here the same qualities that have distinguished
his earlier works in that series, an easy and flowing style, a
readiness to utilise the labours of the best and most
up-to-date authori complete references and a full and
adequate description of topics under well-arranged heads.
Of the two Parts into which the present work is divided,
the first and the smaller portion (Book V) bears the title
‘Culture and Civilisation in Suvarnadvipa’. (Q. Why this
duplication of the same word and why the exclusion of Art
from the purview of culture and its consideration under a
separate heading?). This portion has separate chapters on
‘Law,’ ‘Economic Condition,’ ‘Society,’ ‘Literature’ and
‘Religion’. In the first chapter, Dr. M., after a preliminary
enumeration of the law-books of Java and Bali, gives a
detailed account of one of them (Kufara-manava-éastra),
comparing some of the leading provisions of the Javanese
Jaw with their counterparts in the Sanskrit smrtis. For the
sake of completeness of the comparison, it would have been
better, if Dr. M. had also taken into consi ion the
corresponding provisions of the law in Kautilya’s (or
Kautalya’s) chapter called Dharmasthiyam. On the subject
of slavery, Dr. M. (p. 17) observes that the four classes of
slaves mentioned inthe Javanese work above mentioned
closely follow Manu. This is hardly accurate, as Manu's
list extends up to seven classes, including besides the above,
the krita, the datrima, and the paitra. In connection with
this point, Dr. M. observes that the Javanese law as regards
emancipation of slaves is more liberal. If he had referred
to Kautilya’s work, he would have found that it does allow
(Jolly and Schmidt's edition, p. 107) the self-sold slave, the
born slave, and the pledged slave to purchase freedom.
What is more, it prescribes a fine for neglecting to liberate
the slave after payment of his ransom. Even the
Narada smrti, to which Dr. M. refers, lays down’ that a

1 For references see the writer's paper Slavery in Afcient India,
Calcutta Review, 1925,

Google
156 REVIEWS

slave who rescues his master’s life from grave peril is
forthwith delivered from servitude. For the Javanese law
that when a master married a female slave, their children
inherited the property of the father if the latter had no
children by wives of equal birth, Dr. M. could have found
a distant parallel in Yajfiavalkya (II, 134), which says that
a Sidra’s son by a female slave gets a half share of the
inheritance when there are legitimate sons, and a full share
where there are no such sons and no daughter’s sons.

In the chapter on ‘Economic Condition’, Dr. M. gives a
luminous account of the foreign trade of the countries
included in his title ‘Suvarnadvipa’, from Fa-Hien’s time
downwards, If he had utilised the numerous Old-Javanese
inscriptions (of which we understand a Corpus is going to
be published by Mr. H. B. Sarkar of the Dacca University
in a short time), he could have given us almost equally full
descriptions of the agriculture and industries of the
countries concerned. Even the list of exports given in
many of the foreign accounts utilised by him would have
helped him to fill this gap.

In the chapter on Society, after premising that the
Indian caste-system, as described in the Manu-samhita,
prevails in its essential features even to-day among the
Balinese, Dr. M. thinks (p. 44) that the few recorded notices
of ancient Java and neighbouring lands are not inconsi
with such conditions. It is difficult to reconcile this state-
ment with Dr. M.'s hesitation (p. 40) to accept the referen-
ces to the caste-system in Java, etc. as anything but a
theoretical division, and still more with his positive conten-
tion (p. 49) that a large section of the people of Java was
still at the last period of Hindu culture outside the pale of .
that civilisation. Dr. M.'s case for the close parallel
between ancient Javanese and modern Balinese societies
would have gained in weight, if he had given actual ins-
tances from ancient times of such institutions as anuloma
marriage and the existence of Vaiéyas and Siidras as
separate castes, While on this subject, Dr. M. commits

Google
REVIEWS 157

himself to the statements for which it would be well to
have his authorities, that polygamy was prevalent on a
large scale in India, and that widow-remarriage was all but
unknown in that country.

The chapter on Literature under its sub-headings of
Javanese, Balinese, and Malayan, gives usa very useful
and comprehensive survey of the subject which it treats.
It is, however, unfortunate that Dr. M. should have consi-
dered it beyond his scope to enter into a discussion not
only of the qualities of this literature as a whole, but even
of such outstanding works as the Javanese versions of the
Ramayana and the Mahabharata, the Javanese historical
works and chronicles and so forth.

The chapter on Religion deals separately with Java,
Bali and other parts of Malaysia, ending with a good
appendix on the religious literature in Java. Dr. M. prefers
to stick to the now generally ed expression
“Pauranic form of Brahmanical Hinduism,"’ although it is
a fact that what is called the Pauranic Trinity is. referred
to as early as in Maitrayani Upanigad (IV, 5—6; V, 2)
while its more sectarian forms are mentioned even in the
Ramayana (VI, 106, 19) and the Mahabharata (III, 272. 46).
Dr. M.’s treatment of the Javanese types of Brahmanical
deities might have been enriched by comparison with their
Indian prototypes from the point of view of general con-
ceptions as well as iconography. The same remark applies
mutatis mutandis to his description of rituals and mantras
for Sirya and Vignu which he has industriously compiled
from the writings of two Dutch authorities. While on this
subject, Dr. M. justly draws attention to the predominance
of Saiviem in Java, but we miss an explanation of a pheno-
menon of such outstanding importance. The description
of Mahayana Buddhism in Java is good so far as it goes,
but we could have expected a fuller treatment of the in-
fluence of Buddhism from Bengal to which he just refer:
The list of Sivite sects culled from texts and inscriptions
could haye been compared with those mentioned in the

Google
158 REVIEWS

Saiva agamas. In particular, the author could have dis-
cussed the probable identity of the Bhairava sect of Java
with the Kapalikas and Kalamukhas of India. Dr. M.
contrasts the later (Tantric) form of Buddhism in Java with
the earlier by saying that Tantrism at its best sought to
attain by supernatural or magical practices in this life such
spiritual bliss as o1
series of rebirtl The distinctive characteristic of
Theravada Buddhism, however, is that it enjoins a progres-
sive course of discipline beginning with éila and passing
through various stages of jhdna and pajifid to the stage of
the passionless arahat. It is again difficult to accept the
author’s view (p. 123) that the last phase of Mahayana con-
's of syncretism of different Hindu and Buddhist gods.

The second and larger section of the present work
called ‘Art in Suvarnadvipa’ consists of eleven chapters,
bearing the titles ‘The Architecture of Central Java,’
“Sculpture of Central Java,’ ‘The Architecture of Eastern
Java,’ ‘Sculpture of Eastern Java,’ ‘Bronze Sculptures,’
‘Art in Bali,” ‘Art in Sumatra,’ ‘Art in Borneo,’ ‘Art in
Malay Peninsula,’ ‘Art in Other Islands,’ and ‘General
Review of the Art of Suvarnadvipa.’ These chapters con-
tain by far the most exhaustive account of the Art of
Malaysia that we have in the English language, and accom-
panied as they are by a series of seventy-five plates selected
with rare judgment, they constitute the most useful portion
of this work. We, however, find it difficult to follow the
author in his contention (p. 346) that the common source
of the architecture and sculpture of these regions is to be
found in the Gupta art. The influence of the Amaravati
school upon certain phases of early ‘Srivijaya’ sculpture to
which pointed attention has been drawn in recent years
(N. J. Krom, Ann. Bibl. of Ind, Arch. 1931, pp. 29-33;
JGIS., Vol. 1, pp. 31 ff; Vol. Ill, pp. 50 f.) rests on good
grounds. In this connection itis interesting to note that
Dr. M. observes (p. 351) that South India exercised no in-
fluence of any importance upon Malaysian art generally

Google

a os
REVIEWS 19

till the 10th and IIth centuries 4.D. This completely
ignores the arguments for implying South-Indian influence
on certain Sumatran and Malayan sculptures which have
been advanced in previous numbers of this Journal. (See
JGIS, Vol. 1, pp. 33 £, and Vol. Ill, pp. 54 ff. and the refe-
rences given there). Dr. M. justifies his position by pointing
to the close similarity of Gupta and early Javanese temples
as regards plan, roof and decoration. Not to speak of the
remarkable plans of Candi Sevu and Candi Loro Jongrang
and above all of Borobudur, it would be interesting to ask
for Gupta prototypes of Kalasas in such early temples at
Candi Arjuna and Candi Pavon. While on this subject,
we can not but regret that the author (p. 351) has considered
it beyond his scope to trace in detail the influence of later
phases of Indian art (such as Pala and Cola) upon the art
of Suvarnadvipa. We thus altogether miss a consideration
of the place of the unique Paharpur temple in the evolu-
tion of Malaysian art.

We have noticed a few mis-prints which may be cor-
rected in a later edition :—dhvaja-hrta (p. 17), Raghunandan
(p. 44), manner (p. 47), its (p. 74). ;

We cannot conclude without congratulating the learned
author on his producing a work which should be indispen-
sable to all English-knowing readers who are interested in
the culture of Greater India.

U.N. GHosHAL

Uittreksel uit de Oudheidkundige Verslagen over
1931-35, Batavia, 1938,

In 1930 and 1931, the reconstruction-activity of the
Archaeological Department of the Dutch East-Indies was
projected on the temple-complex of Prambanan. In the
latter year, the principal candis of the temple-groups of
Gedong Songo were successfully restored. As regards
European antiquities, there was inventarisation and mainten-
ance of the company’s country-houses in Bata’ Bantam,

Google
160 REVIEWS

Banda Archipelago, Manodo, Sumatra and Bali. A very
important discovery in Bali was the casting mould of bronze
kettle-drum. Prehistoric explorations at Sampung in East-
Java ended this year, but the inventarisation of neolithic
work-shops in the district of Punung in East-Java continued.
An inscription was found at Kandat (Kediri), while two
images with inscriptions were found in the regency of
Tulungagung.

Reconstruction-activity at Prambanan continued through-
out the following year and the Southern main temple was
completely restore: 1932. The most important discovery
of 1932 was the Siva-image, 1m in height, found in Kali
Wadas, 6km to the South-West of Tegal. This is said to
be the biggest of the bronze images so far discovered in
Java. Some Mohammedan monuments in Cheribon were
also restored this year.

In 1933 the reconstruction-activity at Prambanan provi-
sionally ended with the Northern main temple. The most
important find of 1933 is the bronze Buddha image from
desa Sempaga on the west coast of Celebes. The writer
thinks it to be a “product of the Buddhistic Art-school,
which, in the first centuries after Christ, developed at
Amaravati in S. India, and that it belongs to the oldest
remains from the Hindu period so far discovered in the
Archipelago.” Dr, Van Stein Callenfels undertook prehis~
toric explorations in Celebes, which made it possible for
him to further define the Southern boundary of Philippine-
Minahassi culture. In the Dutch Indies proto-neolithicum
is found for the first time in Galumpang. European anti-
quities received scant attention for want of funds

In 1934 and 1935, there were minor restoration-activities
at Prambanan. In the former year some inscriptions were
found at Palembang. In 1935 some incised gold plates
were found at desa Sidomulya. In this year arrangements
were also made to ascertain the “‘colonial style’ in archi-
tecture from 1750-1850.

H. B. Sarkar

Google

a
REVIEWS 161

Een Oudheidkundig Jubileum, 1913-1938, Batavia, 1938.

The present Jubilee number of the Archaeological
Department of Netherlands India is a very opportune
publication and gives usa succinct review of the fruitful
activities of the Department conducted in close co-operation
with the Royal Batavian Society of Arts and Sciences. The
Department has done excellent work in the domain of
excavation, conservation, reconstruction, restoration, in
ventarisation, publication, etc. In 1912 appeared the
Oudheidkundige Verslagen which was continued from
1913-°30, 1936, 1937; in the series of reports appeared
Inventaris der Hindoe-oudheden (1914, 1915, 1923). In 1925
@ new series commenced with the Publicaties van den
Oudheidkundigen Dienst of which part I has been issued.
Besides, the Hommage, a Journal devoted to prehietorica,
appeared in 1932. Not the leaet important are the articles
by members of the staff, which have been published in
TBG, BKI, etc. Numerous projects of restoration and
reconstruction were undertaken and carried out between
1913 and 1938. The following deserve special mention: the
Naga-temple and the Date-temple of Panataran (1917-18),
Candi Sawentar (1921), Plumbangan (1921), Candi Badut
(1926), Candi Ngawen (1926-27), Candi Sewu (1928), Candi
Kalasan (1929), Candi Sari (1930), Candi Singhasari (1937).
The reconstruction of the main temple of the Loro
Jonggrang-complex at Prambanan continued for more than
10 years. Prehistoric, Muslim and European antiquities
have not also been neglected.

H. B. Sarkar

"

Google
Comment and Criticism

New CaTaLocus CaTALOGORUM (PROVISIONAL FASCICULUS).

In Mr. Shiva Prasad Bhattacharya’s review of the New
Catalogus Catalogorum of the University of Madras,
published in the journal of the Greater India Society, Vol.
VI, No. 1 of January, 1939, there are some criticisms which
I may be permitted to answer.

i) The reviewer remarks about ‘unnecessary duplication
(e. g- Akgobhyatirtha, etc.) which in several cases are
verbatim reprints from Aufrecht's work,’ and which, the
reviewer suggests, could ‘easily have been dispensed with.’
I beg to draw the attention of the reviewer to our preface
where our undertaking has been described as a work of
bringing up-to-date Aufrecht’s Catalogus Catalogorum and
not one of merely supplementing it. The advantage of
bringing out an up-to-date revision of Aufrecht’s work is
to remove the necessity for the old catalogue.

ii) The alleged mispagination of pages 9-16 is not borne
cout by an examination of a number of copies in our office.

iii) We are thankful for the correction, Mm. Gananath
Sen for Mm. Ganganath Sen.

iv) Regarding misprints in general, it is necessary to
point out that the fasciculus issued was provisional in nature
and was got ready in haste last December for distribution
at the All-India Oriental Conference at Trivandrum.

vy). The workers are not suffering from any tendency
to overburden the work with entries of works of question-
able value, or of unimportant works of particular provinces.
There is a slight difference of opinion on the question of
entering modern works and it is to elicit the generel opi-
nion of the world of scholars that such entries were intro-
duced. Including the reviewer, only three scholars have

Google
COMMENT AND CRITICISM 163

expressed their view that such works had better be excluded.
No partiality for any cular province was, however,
responsible for the entries of some of the unimportant
works mentioned by the reviewer. On this and the previ-
ous question, it was thought fit to incorporate in our cata-
logue the entries in the British Museum and India Office
Catalogues of Sanskrit Printed Books.

vi). Incorporation of works and authors known through
citations alone is receiving its proper share of attention.

vii). Regarding the spelling of Angirakalpa and Angi-
rapri, which the reviewer would emend into Angirah-
kalpa (?) and Angirah-apri (?) I may be permitted to re-
mark that dictionaries permit the forms—Angiras, Angira
and Angira.

viii). The reviewer's criticism of Akalabhaskara seems
unnecessary, since the expression, intercalary months, as
used in Sanskrit-English Dictionaries and by modern
writers in English on Smyti, is sufficiently expressive of
periods unfit for rites.

ix). We would like to learn from the reviewer what
co-ordination he means, and what he means by imagining
n of partisan spirit under Agniemrti or Agastya-

x). Regarding the final suggestion of the reviewer, we
might inform him that thanks to the courtesy of many
scholars the Catalogus Catalogorum Office does have a wide
circle of scholars to co-operate in the work.

Any help which the reviewer could give, will be thank-
fully received and acknowledged by the office.

V. RacHAVAN

Hy

Dr. V. Raghavan, a member of the Board of Editors of
the New Catalogus Catalogorum, published by the Uni-
versity of Madras, has tried to answer some of the criticisms

offered by me in my review of the work in JGIS, Vol. VI,

Google
164 COMMENT AND CRITICISM

No. |. Items i-iv and ii of his reply call for no comment,
ashe apparently does not underestimate the importance
of my suggestions. With regard to items v and ix, | do not
see why he should think otherwise. The editors of an en-
cyclopsedic reference work like the present one should be
on their guard lest they join any side in discussions which
are still not closed. The safest course would be to state
the views and let the world of scholars draw the legitimate
inference. The attempt to explain away item No. vii is
feeble and unconvincing. To take intercalary months as
equivalent to or embracing all kinds of imp 8 is a course
which the orthodox smrti scholar would hesitate to accept.
We welcome the assurance that incorporation of references
in works not known but quoted, is receiving its proper share
of attention, and we hope this will be consistently com-
plied with. If the Board of Editors think that all scholarly
and provincial interests are well represented in their scheme,
we have nothing further to say. What | suggested was
that the important MSS. in different provincial scripts should
preferably be referred to those that are intimately familiar
with those scripts, 20 as to avoid all chances of error.
Let us hope that the Board has undertaken its stupendous
task with thorough sense of its responsibility and is prompted
by the sole consideration of advancement of learning.

SHIVA PRASAD BHATTACHARYA

[The controversy is closed—Ed.]

Google
yy

Select Contents of Oriental Journals

Bijdragen tot de taal—, land—en Volkenkunde van
Nederlandsch-Indie, dl. 98, afl. I and II, 1939.

Studien zur geschichte des Sivaismus:die Sivaitischen
systeme in der altjavanischen literatur. I. by A Zieseniss.—
In this very important paper the author has recognised the
importance of data in Old-Javanese literature for recons-
tructing the history of Saivism, and has taken great
pains to discover the systems of Saivism represented in
such works as Bhuvanakoga, Bhuvanasanksepa, Tattva sang
hyang Mahajfidna, etc. So far as Java is concerned, it
throws a flood of light on the subject.

Tijdschrift voor Indisohe taal-, land-en Volkenkunde,
dl. 79, afl. I-I, 1939.

1. Two silver plate grants from the Bataiva Museum
by K. A. Nilakanta Sastri—The author edits two charters
preserved in the Museum of Batavia. The one was issued
by Vijayaraghava of Tanjore in 1658, conferring trading
rights and privileges on the Dutch Company. This charter
written in Telugu. The other charter, written in Tamil,
was issued in 1676, when Ekoji confirmed the previous
grant of Vijayaraghava.

2. Note on cultural relations between South-India and
Java by W. F. Stutterheim—Amongst other things the
author offers a new interpretation of a much-debated
couplet in the Canggal inscription and seeks to identify the
Kufjara-kuijadesa of the charter with the Kédu-plains or
a part of them.

3. Een bijzettingsbeeld van Koning Rajasa? by W.F.
Stutterheim—The writer supposes the image no. 143/18509
at the Leiden Royal Museum for Ethnology to be an apo-
theosized figure of king Rajasa, the founder of the dynasty
of Singhasari.

Google
166 SELECT CONTENTS OF ORIENTAL JOURNALS

Djawa, 19, 1939

Een bronzen stiipa by W.F. Stutterheim—The writer
describes a bronze stiipa in the collection of Resink-
Wilkens. It contains 21 pajungs (umbrellas) and is sup-
posed to date from the eighth century 4.D. It has some
resemblance with the stipa of Bédulu in Bali.

Djawa 1938, No. 6.

De Beelden van Belahan by Dr. W. F. Stutterheim.
On the basis of some discoveries connected with Belahan
Stutterheim identifies the Vignu-image of Belahan with the
apotheosised king Airlangga and recognises in two other
images the queens of the said king, one of whom, Sri
Sangramavijayadharmaprasadottuigadevi, was so far recog-

nised to be the daughter of the king.

Djawa 1939, No. I.

(1) Bima als Goeroe by H. Overbeck.

The author has gathered some di on the nature of
the Bhima-cult from Javanese lakon-literature.

(2) Eenige opmerkeningen over de wajang-koelit-voor-
stelling by A. J. Resink-Wilkens.

The author describes his observations onthe arrangement
of male and female seats in wayang-kulit shows, and dis-
cusses in that connexion the views of Drs. Poerbatjaraka
and Rassers. According to the author, men and women
formerly sat on the shadow-side of the kélir.

(3) Een Bronzen Poepoedak by W. F. Stutterheim.

Stutterheim describes a bronze case, in which occurs the
representation of a Idve-scene between Arjuna and two
celestial nymphs.

(4) Volksoverlevering in beeld by J. H. Hooykaas—van
Leeuwen Boomkamp-

The paper discusses folk-tradition in the portraiture at
Jogja, under four heads: (1) Wayang-stories, (2) husband
and wife series, (3) Muslim representation, (4) Non-Muslim
representation.

Google
SELECT CONTENTS OF ORIENTAL JOURNALS 167

Bijdragen tot de taal—
Nederlandsch Indie, 97, afl. 4, 1938.
Inscripties van het Rijksmuseum voor Volkenkunde te
Leiden by F. H. van Naerssen.
The author edits 3 unpublished copper-plate inscriptions

of the Rijkemuseum, bearing nos. 3338, 3339 and 3340.
Nos. 3338 and 3339 belong to the same series; no. 3340

belongs to the time of Balitung and is dated 932 S.E.
H. B. Sarkar

Ostasiatisehe Zeitschrift. (N.F. 14 Jahrg., 2/3 heft)

The Antiquity of the Buddha-Image: The Cult of the Buddha.
By O. C. Gancooty.

No lack of techinacl skill or creative genius, but an indirect
injunction prevented native artists of India from rendering
Buddha's personality in adequate plastic forms. Even
after Buddha's image became current in Indian Buddhist
art, the canonical and artistic convention of omitting
his figure continued for some time. The earliest surviv-
ing text sanctioning image-worship was very probably
composed some time during the first part of Ist century
B.C. The earliest monumental example of Buddha image
in Gandhara school must be dated some time in Ist cen-
tury B.C. The available evidence, literary ormonumen-
tal does not permit fixing the earlist date of the Buddha
image.

(N. F, 14 Jahrg., 4/5 heft).

Zur Geschichte der Chienischen Plastik vom VIII-XIV
Jahrhundert. By L. BACHHOFER,

Untersuchungen z. mittelalterlichen Kunstgeschichte Ostuur-
kestans. By Heimo Rav.

Streiflichter auf die Entwicklung des Bauplans chinesischer
buddhistischer Kloster in ihrem Verhaltnis zum buddhis-
tischen Kultus, By Prip-Moller.

Google
168 SELECT CONTENTS OF ORIENTAL JOURNALS

Annals ef the Bhandarkar Oriental Researoh Inctitute.,
(Vol. XIX, Pr. fl)
Non-Aryan Contribution to Indian Music. ©. C. Gangoly
The Brhad-Deéi of Matanga offers evidence to show that
“the Indian Musical systems have freely borrowed rich
materials from aboriginal sources." Some of the Melo-
dies of Indian Music are named after ancient tribes

such as Malavas, Pulindas, Sakas, Abbiras, Gurjaras,
Savaras etc.

Quarterly Journal of the Mythio Society.
(Vol. XXIX, No. 1)

Theory and Practice of Politics in Mediaeval Ceylon.
By R. C. Proctor.

(Vol. XXIX, Nos. 3, 4)
India and Old Ceylon. By V. SRINIVASAN.

Archiv Orieatalni.

(Vol. X, No. 3)

The Narrators of Buddhist Scriptures and Religious Fables in
the Sung Period. By JanosLav PRUSEK.
Bulletin of the School of Oriental Studies

(Vol. 1X, pt. 4)

The Jataka-stava of Jfidnaéraya. By H. W.BaiLey. A short
Khotanese text, the Skt. original of which has been found
with an inter-linear Tibetan gloss in the Sde-dge (Derge)
Bstan-hgyur and edited in this article.

Monumenta Serica.

{Vol. Ili, Fasc. 2
Dragons Chinois et naga Indien. By J. PREYLUSKI.

Google
BOOKS RECEIVED

The Greater India Society acknowledges with thanks the
receipt of the following books, periodicals, pamphlets, etc.
during the last six months.

Periodicals

Adyar Library Bulletin (Brahma-vidya), Vol. Ill, pt. 2.
Madras, 1939.

Annals of the Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute, Vol.
XIX, pt. 4, Poona, 1939.

Annual Report (1938) of the Division of Intercourse and
Education, Carnegie Endowment for International
Peace, New York, 1939.

Annual Report (46th year) of the Nagari Pracdrini Sabha,
Benares, 1939.

Annual Report (1936-1937 and 1937-1938) of the Varendar
Research Society, Rajshahi, 1939.

Buddha-Prabha, Vol. 7, Nos. | and 2, Bombay, 1939.

Bulletin of the Colonial Institute of Amsterdam, Vol. Il,
No. 3, Amsterdam, 1939.

Bulletin of the Czechoslovak Oriental Institute, No. 2,
Prague, 1938.

Bulletin of the School of Oriental Studies, Vol. X, Pt. 1,
London, 1939.

Djdéwé, 19 Jaarg., Nos. 2, 3 and 4, Jogjakarta, 1939,

Indian Historical Quarterly, Vol. XV, No. 1, Calcutta, 1939,

Journal of the Assam Research Society, Vol. VII, No. 1,
Gauhati, 1939.

Journal of the Bombay Historical Society, Vol. V, No. 1,"
Bombay, 1939.

Journal of Indian History, Vol. XVIII, Pt. 1, Madras, 1939.

Journal of the Malay Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society,
Vol. XVI, Pt. Ill, Singapore, 1938.

Man in India, Vol. XIX, No. 1, Ranchi, 1939.

2

Google
170 BOOKS RECEIVED

Nagari Pracarini Patrika, Vol. 43, Nos. 2,3 and 4; Vol.
44, No. I, Benares, 1938-39.

Ostasiatische Zeitschrift, 14 Jabrg., 4/5 heft, Berlin, 1939.

Quarterly Journal of the Mythic Society, Vol. XXIX, No. 4.
Bangalore, 1939.

Books, Pamphlets, etc.

Aanwinsten op ethnografisch en anthropologisch gebied van
de afdeeling Volk. von het Koloniaal Inst. over 1938,
Amsterdam, 1939.

Butler, N.M., The Everlasting Conflict, New York, 1939.
Kunst, Arnold, Probleme der Buddhistischen Logik in der
Darstellung der Tattvasamgraha, Krakow, 1939.
Lijst van Leden Enz., Ist May, 1939 (Kon. Inst. voor de
Taal—, Land—en Volk. van Nederlandsch-Indié), ’s-

Gravenhage 1939.

Oudheidkundig Verslag 1938 (Kon. Bataviaasch Genoot-

schap van Kunsten en Wetenschappen), Batavia, 1939.

Google
7

JOURNAL OF THE GREATER INDIA ‘SOCIETY

Published twice a year, in January and in July. Annual
subscription Rs. 4-8, or 88.-6d. inclusive of postage. Agents
outside India: Messrs. Luzac & Co., 46, Great Russell
Street, London, W. C. 1.

Contents of Vol. VI, No. I

Early Traces of Buddhism (Nihar-Ranjan Ray) ; Date of
the Earliest Sanskrit inscription ‘of Camp&. (D. C. Sircat);
Notices of Books, etc. Price (single copy) Ra. 2-4-0 or 4s.-
3d., inclusive of postage.

Reprints of almost all the articles published in the Journal
are available for purchase. Back numbers of the Journal are
still available.

4
INDIAN INFLUENCES ON THE LITERATURE!
OF JAVA AND BALI

BY HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR, M.A.

Price: Rs. 6/-. Postage Extra

To be had of
The Manager, GREATER INDIA SOCIETY,
21, Badur Bagan Row, P.O, Amherst Street
CALCUTTA

Google
ees

ve

PUBLICATIONS OF THE

Greater India Society

re
Greater India—By Dr. Kalidas Nag, (to be re-issued).

India snd China—By Dr. Prabodh Chandra Bagchi (to be re-ismued).
indian Culture in Java and Sumatra—Revised and enlarged edition. Part I,
Jert—By Dr.B. R. Chattorji; Part II, Insctiptions—By Dr. N. P.
Ohakravarti and Dr. B. R. Chatterii Re 2.

“India and Central Asia—By Dr. N. P. Chakravarti (to be re-issued).

Anolent indian Culture in Afghanistan—By Dr. U. N. Ghoshal
Re 1.

ACATIONS

PueniaTion®
Ancient indian Qolonies in the Far Enst—Vol. I, CHAMPA—By Dr. R.
©. Majumdar : Re. 15...
Anolent indian Colonies in the Far East—Vol. II, Part ~SUVARNADVIPA
By-Dr. R-O. Majumdar is. 10.
Hindu Law and Custom—(Only authorised. English translation of Dr.
Julius Jolly's Recht und Sitte)—By Dr. B. K. Ghosh, _—RS. 10-8
Soolat Life in Ancient India—(Stadies in Vateyayana’s Kamasitra)—By
Prof. .H. ©. Chakledar. Rs

Pratima Laksanam (Sanskrit and Tibetan)—By Prof. P. N. Bose.
Re 4,

Indian Literature in China and the Far East_By P. K. Mukherji.
Re. 3.

Indo-Javanese History (only authorised English translation of Dr. N.3
Krom’s Hindoe-Javaanacke Geschiedenis)—By Himansu Bhusan Sarkar, M.A
(in preparation) 1

Indian Colony of Slam—By Prof. P. N. Bose. “ Rs, 36.
AE ANT (Hindi edition of Bulletin No. 1.) (Zo be re-issued).
JEST GAS (Bongali edition of Bulletin No. 1.) Re. 1.

GREATER INDIA STUDIES.

Indian, Influences on the Literature of Java and Ball—By

Bhusan Sarker, M.A. Rs,
‘Travels of Tibetan Pilgrims In the Swat Valley—By' Dr. .G. Tucci. |

(in the Press) |

To be had of the Manager, GREATER INDIA Society,
21, BADURBAGAN ‘Row, P.O, AMHERST STREET,
“GALCUTTA. ‘

Printed and Published by Sj. J.  Sarkhel, at the Calcutta Oriental Press, Led.

+s g, Panchanan Ghosh Lane, Calcutta.

Google s
