a To nguaheiss the he data of Crete India by ores
meetings, lantern lectures, e exhibitions and conferences.

5 for rai ‘the results of research
ts : ® spiritual and Tea eras tions, wi

Greater India and
ls colleges, and.

THE

JOURNAL

GREATER INDIA SOCIETY
Vonrsi. 2) JANUARY! 1045 a ae "Mo. 1

that the services of such scholar

In: Memoriam
|The Late Dr. J. Ph. Vogel

By Dr. “Bo. CH. CHHABRA.

fee Philippe Vogel was born on “ae, ih’ A Ee in- the year
1871 in Holland. For about thirteen’ years he served in ‘India as an
officer of the Archaeological Department. He was then appointed
Professor of Sanskrit. and. Indian Archaeology at the University of Ley-
den in his native country.’ This:exalted post he held for a full quarter
of a century. He was the” Founder-President: of: the Kerh Institute, -

Leyden. Some twelve years ago, the British Government. conferred on

him the distinction of Gay E. in recognition of his manifold substantial
contributions: in the field of Indological researches. ®

-He studied Sanskrit under: Prof. C. C. Uhlenbeck ‘at the: Universiy
of Amsterdam and took his Doctorate: of Philesophy .in. December
1897, His. thesis was Het Leemen Wagentje. (The Little” Clay Cart), com-
prising a critical study and a translation into ‘Dutch of Stidraka’ s Mre- —
chakatika, a’ well-known’ comedy in: ‘classical: Satiskrit. The! complex
character of this exuberant | drama, it! need har! he be pointed out,
demands ‘much. of a serious student: and,. in ‘turn,’ xedoubles his know-
ledge of Sanskrit, “and acquaints. him well. with- a variety cof Prakrits.
into the bargain. ‘This thus reveals oné of the sécrets- behind . Vogel’ s
success: as an expert in: Indian epigraphy that. he ‘has be n. Soon
after finishing his academic career, the young ‘Doctor cam: ‘over to
India where ultimately he joined the. “Department of Archaeological
“Survey on the Ist January 1901. This was a time that marked an
epoch’: t history of that Department inasmtich” as it was then,

‘orts of Lord Curzon, bei

sound footing” through thei

of gt

@at prornise aé Dr.

g veduiscitated and placed: on
various reforms.” Te appt then a

an
i)
dj
ae
si

a ee B. CH. CHHABRA

Dr. J. Ph. Vogel, and Mr. (later Sir) John H. Marshall were being

enlisted. These with their other colleagues, both European and Indian,
formed a team of energetic workers who upheld the dignity of the
Department, each rendering excellent service to the cause of archaeo-
logy in India.

Dr. Vogel began his. services . as Archaeological Surveyor of the

Punjab Circle. Soon, however, a reshuffling took place in the Depart. _

ment, amalgamating the two Circles of the Panjab and the United’

Provinces into one Northern Circle, of which he became the Super-
intendent. His duties were then confined to all that related to the
Hindu and Buddhist Monuments within his jurisdiction, while the
Muhammadan Monuments were made the charge of a newly appoint-

ed Aychitectural Surveyor in the person of Mr. E. B. S. Shepherd. » eo

The new arrangement considerably widened the sphere of Dr. Vogel’s
activities and increased his responsibilities, but he rose equal to the
task. In addition to his own duties, he had often to lend a helping
hand, mostly in an honorary capacity, to the provincial museums
within his Circle, at Lahore, Delhi, Mathuta and Lucknow.” His. cata-
logues of the Delhi Museum of Archaeology and the Archaedlasicnl
Museum at Mathura bear testimony to the arduous task these addi-

tional charges entailed.

Directly he took charge of his office at Lahore in 1901, he set about

. his work in right earmest.. His attention was attracted, to the petty
hill State of Chamba in the Panjab as a region likely to yield a wealth —

of archaeological material. ‘Consequently, during the years 1902-08,
he devoted part. of the summer months to the exploration work in
that State. The results far exceeded the expectations. Apart from

other antiquities, an. abundance of old inscriptions in Sarada and its

derivative: characters, both ‘on stone and’ on copper plates, was

: brought to light, the value of which cannot be overestimated. Dr.

Vogel divided the entire material into two parts, one relating to the
pre-Muhammadan period and the other to the subsequent times. The
first is dealt with in his: excellent: monograph, entitled Antiquities of

Chamba State, Part 1: Inscriptions of-the Pre- Muhammadan Period,
which was published in 1911 as Vol. XXXVI of the New Imperial
‘Series of the Archaeological . Survey of India. As to Part H, which
he’ had in mind, he had done much preliminary work in connection
7 with that, but he could not complete it, as in the meantime he left the
Department. In this connection it may further be observed that the
- Bhuri Singh Museum at. Chamba, of which he has also compiled a
catalogue, owes its origin to Dr. Vogel himself. It was opened on

the 14th September 1908 with due ‘ceremony. Nyce eRe Avo
His Chamba work: was ‘more. or: less a side-show. ‘Dr. Vogel's

fy
BA

ar
{

THE LATE DR. I PH, VOGEL . 3

main duties miitoced much conservation and: excavation work. Of
the conservation, it is enough to refer to ‘his Annual Reports of the
Northern Circle. Another of his monographs, entitled Tile-Mosaics of

‘the Lahore Fort (Vol. XLI of the N.LS. of the A.S.J., 1920), accom-

panied by as many as eighty plates, containing fine reproductions mm

original colours of one hundred and sixteen panels of tile-mosaics,
will afford some tangible proof of the care and precision with which
he executed this type of work. As regards. the field operations, first of
all he conducted excavations, in company with his chief, Sir John
Marshall, at the ancient site of Charsadda near Peshawar early in 1903.
The results of these operations were most gratifying, as will appear
from an account of them published jointly by the two officers in that
years Annual Report of the Archaeological Survey of India. During
the next. three consecutive seasons, Dr. Vogel was engaged in super-
vising similar excavations at Kasia in the U.P. From this site he
succeeded in bringing to light a large number of Buddhist antiquities.
It ig believed that Kasia and its neighbourhood represent the ancient

- Kuginara where the Buddha entered parinirvéna. The digging opera-

tions at Kasia, were interrupted by the famine that broke out in -
that part of the country in 1907-08. The scene of activities in 1908
was therefore shifted to another old site, namely Saheth-Maheth, the

‘ancient Sravasti, equally famous in the. Buddhist scriptures. Dr.

Vogel's detailed reports on these excavations are found in the said i

Annual Report of the A.S.I. for the respective years. It wil be seen

from them that he made a good: job of whatever he undertook.
In 1905-06, in addition to his own duties, Dr. Vogel held charge of

the Frontier and Baluchistan Circle for six months when Mr. (later Sir)

M. A. Stein, the Surveyor of the Circle and Inspector-General of
Education of the Frontier Provinces, was on other duty. Further,
from May 1910 to February 1912, Dr.. Vogel officiated as Director-
General of Archaeology in. India. He proceeded | on leave and furlough
for 18 months from the 24th September 1912: Jt was during this period
that he was offered the post of | Bibtessot of Sanskrit and: Indian
Archaeology at the University of Leyden. (Holland) by the Government
of the Netherlands, which he accepted. Consequently he resigned his
appointment in the Department of. Archaeological Survey of India with
effect from the 28th March 1914, when. his leave expired, His actual
association with ‘this Department ‘thus: lasted for a little: more than’ a

decade,’ And within this comparatively short space: of: time he acconi-
plished a lot.’ ‘He’ has left a splendid record of solid work. His nume-_
rous publications, Batibieg: $0; the ope idd ‘concerned, will bear: this :
= His isbsoininent is Prbtachot hered a new phase ‘in his career,

4 B. CH. CHHABRA

which proved even more glorious. . He got a job best suited to his
genius, wherein he could tum to the utmost advantage the varied
experience he had gained during his sojourn in India. The termination
of his official connection here by no means meant a severance of his rela-
tions with India. On the contrary, the bonds were strengthened by his
maintaining a constant touch with his friends and acquaintances in the
east. And, sitting far away as he was, he was much better informed of
the Archaeological activities and progress in this country than many of us
here could be. True, it was a part of his ‘profession’, but certainly
there was something more, much nobler, behind it. The pursuit of
the cultural history of India in all its aspects was a passion with
him, which grew intenser and intenser as the years rolled by. And
it was due to this that he continued la India in his own way
up to the very last.

The chair of Sanskrit learning at the oe of Leyden a a

glorious tradition behind it, and Prof. Vogel, through his excellent
qualities of head and heart, added lustre to the glory. The University

of Leyden is one of the dldese in Europe. Its faculty of arts had

provision for the study of various languages, including Arabic; but
Sanskrit was introduced there only on the |8th October 1865, when
Henry Kern, that famous Dutch Indologist, a great lover of Sanskrit,
was appointed the first. Professor of Sanskrit at that’ University. It
is said of this giant among the linguists that he knew four scores
of languages, both ancient and modern, ‘Indonesian, Indo-Germanic,
Dravidian and what not, but that, of all these, he loved Sanskrit most.

And this he continued teaching, as Professor, upwards of thirty-eight

years. In 1903 he completed the 70th year of his life, when, in

ebedience to the law of the land, he retired and passed on the

chair of Sanskrit learning to one of his antevdsins, Dr. J. S. Speyer
by name. Prof. Kern lived to a ripe ege of 84, and even during

his retired ‘life he was engaged in: his literary pursuits with unabated

zeal. We in India do not know much about his successor, Prof.

| Dr. J. S. Speyer, but he had made a name among his countrymen, as

a very brilliant scholar. As Professor of Sanskrit he was equally
loved and respected by his students. His works, published during
the years 1872-1913, amount to more than. one hundred. He had
just completed the [0th year of his Professorship when, on the 3lst
Octcber 1913, at the age of 64, he breathed his last. This was a
terrible loss, and quite unexpected, too. The University of Leyden
was left poorer thereby. The. authorities were on the look out for a

scholar worthy enough. to fill the. high | post that had fallen’ vacant.

And they were lucky indeed’ in finding such a one in the person of

Dr. Vogel who happened to. be there at that time, enjoying his fur-

‘
a

are =

vi,
'

THE LATE DR. Jj. PH. VOGEL 5

lough, and was thus readily available. He had an advantage over
others. In addition to being a good Sanskritist, he was en archaeolog-
ist and an epigraphist with a great deal of practical experience in
the field of Indian archaeology and epigraphy. And it goes without
saying that all these subjects form complements of each other in the
vast field of Indology. The Government of the Netherlands were
not slow to recognize this. They decided to benefit by Dr. Vogel’s
additional endowments. This is how the study of Indian archaeo-
logy also came to be introduced at that University, and how Dr.

Vogel had the unique honour. of being appointed as Professor of
Sanskrit and Indian Archaeology.

This appointment imparted a fresh impetus to the Indological studies
in Holland. A steady progress was maintained, and in the course of
years that followed the University of Leyden earned the reputation of
being a centre of Oriental learning in no way inferior to any similar
institution on the continent. And behind this success was the perso-
nality and scholarship of Prof. Vogel, self-denying and persevering.
How many scholars have not sat at his feet and received enlightenment
from him during his tenure of twenty-five years. of Professorate, apart
from his tending care and solicitude? And how many have not donned
the robes of doctorate with’ his_ blessings > ' And can any father be
more ‘solicitous for his sons than he was ‘for his pupils, concerning
their future? Without their knowing it, he would do all he could,
even go out of his way, to see that they were well settled in life
and, especially, placed in a position where their learning might bear |
fruit, their adhita might become tejasvin. It was his earnest desire
that he could count among his sigyas some at least from India, the
land he loved so dearly. This wish of his was granted in an ample
measure. The first to take his Doctorate under Prof. Vogel was
F. D. K. Bosch who later became the. Director: of Archaeology in the
Netherlands’ India. That was as early ‘as 1914, the very first. year of 7
the Professor's Professorate. And the: last to enjoy that honour was
Durga Prasad Pandey, an Indian scholar from Santiniketan, who
took his Doctorate at. Leyden in. 1939, the year when Prof. Vogel
retired. The way the cycle was completed might well be looked, 5 ge
as symbolic of the meeting of the east and. the west. oa

It was indeed his constant endeavour to promote muftsal | Lvten:
standing between. the east | and the. west and bring them together
through | the medium of his profession. - ‘For ‘this: ‘purpose no sacrifice
was too great’ to him. It was chiefly with. this end ‘in view that he
conceived the. idea: of ‘starting a xesarch. i itute | at Leyden,» which
won the approval and active. support | ‘of the ‘University authorities. As
a consequence, the Kem Institute came into bettie a was, appro: “

6 : B. CH. CHHABRA

priately named after that pioneer, Prof. Kern. The opening ceremony
took place on the 4th April 1925. And what this Institute has meant
to India. and to Holland needs no demonstration. It is an annexe to
the University and, at the same time, an independent research
‘nstitute. Prof. Vogel used to hold his classes in the rooms of this
Institute, and so did Prof. Krom and Prof. Berg. In 1935 they cele-
brated the tenth anniversary of its existence. Prof. Vogel, as its
President, gave a detailed account of its manifold activities: the
regular publication of the Annual. Bibliography of Indian Archeology;
the teaching of various oriental languages, apart from Sanskrit; the
growing library; the collection of antiquities and of the plaster casts
of those which were considered very important for the study, but of
which the originals could not be secured; the progress with the pre-
paration of an archaeological atlas of Greater India, designed to con-
tain at least twenty maps of Voor-en Achter-indié, Ceylon en Indonesié;
so.on and so forth. And it is no exaggeration that each and every
activity of the Institute bore an impress of Prof. Vogel's labour of

love. About its library in particular he was proud, and justly so,

to observe that on the subject of Indian archaeology it was next only
‘to that of the India Office, London, and to that of the Archaeological
‘Survey of India, Simla. In short, the Kern Institute was proving of
“real service to all concerned, but. very few persons had any idea of
what the splendid job cost Prof. Vegel. He was so wedded to the
cause that he served it literally with tan, man and dhan (body, mind
and money), as one would say in Hindj.. With the finances of the
Institute it was not always a smooth sailing. They had a tendency
often to ebb very low, and Prof. Vogel would make the deficit good
from his own pocket, ungrudgingly, yet at considerable personal

sacrifice. It was once remarked that since Prof. Vogel had no child,’ :

he regarded the Kem Institute as his child: And so indeed it looked.

In the learned circles, at home and abroad, Prof. Vogel was held
in high esteem. In the academic year 1930-31, he was at the helm of
the University of Leyden as its Rector Magnificus. It is their practice
annually to select one of the University Professors for this dignified

position. Jt is more or less equal to the rank of Vice-Chancellor of |

our universities. He treated his students as his children and they,
in their turn, had profound regards for. chim, and will ever have.

_ Prof. Vogel was as proficient in French as. he was well-versed in
Eng! lish. His contributions i in French rank among the best. La Seulp-

3 ture de Mathura by, him. is. _distinetly a. _monumental work in every

1 Prof. Vogel had no child. , He got ‘married after his appointment as

: Professor. Some years later, Prof. and Mrs.. Vogel made a trip to India.

d
rl
4

BAO

THE LATE DR. J. PH. VOGEL 7

respect, It is an envy of many a scholar. He knew German as well,
but did not write much in that language.

He retired in September 1939. According to the University regu-
lations, he could have served for another two years, but he felt he
was badly in need of rest. Besides, he wanted leisure and solitude
in order to finish off the various research works he had on hand. He
left the town of Leyden and went to dwell in’ the neighbouring village
Oegstgeest where he had lately purchased a cottage with a garden
in the midst of beautiful country surroundings. In that quietude he
occupied himself with his cherished pursuits. One of the works he
was last engaged on was the writing of a history of ald trade-routes
between India and the western world. He had collected a lot. of
material on this subject, much of it from the Sanskrit literature. It is,
however, not known at what stage he has left that work.

He led a very simple life and a very austere life. He was all -
along overbusy. Yet he would never do a thing in haste. With him
a thing worth doing was a thing worth doing well. Daily he had
to dispose of a good deal of correspondence, but be it an important
letter or an ordinary note, it would receive his careful attention. And
his correspondents will bear it out that in his clear well-set handwriting

there seldom was a flaw to be noticed or a trace of hurriedness. He __

was by habit prompt, regular and. thorough. Home-gardening was

his hobby that would afford him much-needed relaxation. Children

were an immense joy to him, though, alas! he had none himself.. He —
had no time for cheap amusements. On occasions, both he and! Mrs.

Vogel would make a trip to Paris, or visit some health resort in_
Switzerland. Stratford-on-Avon, Shakespere’s birth-place, was another
of their favourite holiday resorts, where they would delight in seeing
some comedy of Shakespeare staged in an open-air theatre. From
such recreations the Professor would return much refreshed: and would
resume his work with renewed vigour. His only luxury was a cigar
after lunch when he would sit at his writing table and ply his pensive
pen. Always quiet and serene of deportment, he abounded in kindli- .
ness. I never saw him utter a harsh word to anybody, not to speak
of losing temper. He would greet. you with a smile: and would never
omit enquiring after your welfare. He was frugal of speech and never

- asserted himself, but whatever fre said carried. weight. He did’ not

quite roll in wealth. You could not call him even rich. All the same,
he: was of an exceedingly charitable disposition. And his charity —
travelled far beyond the narrow . limits of family or community. He

has helped people in. need, and done so. anonymously. QOstentation —

was his abhorrence. “He shunned. limelight. . | Methinks his- saintly
virtues derived from his lifelong studies. He had imbibed all that i ds

‘ th
5

g , B. CH. CHHABRA

noble and sublime in the Indian culture, of which he was both an
admirer and an exponent. In this. he followed in the footsteps of his
guru, Prof. C. C. Uhlenbeck. I had the proud privilege of seeing this
octogenarian maharshi at his residence in Amersfoort (Holland) on the
22nd August 1932, when my friend, Pt. Gauri Shankar of the Govern-
ment College, Lahore, and myself went from Bilthoven to pay our
respects to him. To our joy and surprise he greeted us in Sanskrit
and our conversation was for the most part in Sanskrit itself. He
would refer to his Sisya by the name of Vihagottama, the Dutch
word vogel meaning ‘bird’. We aré all birds of passage, but it re-
quires a supreme bird to soar high and get at amrta, secure immorta-

lity. So, Hail to thee, Most Excellent Bird:

namo namasie V ihagotiamdya’

a
i

i
i

Publications of Dr. J. Ph. Vogel
(The list is not exhaustive. )
1897
Het Leemen Wagentje (The Little. Clay fart, Dutch Translation
of Se Amsterdam.

og “4902 : we
Triloknath. JASB., vol. 71, pp. 35-41.

$908
Note sur une Statue du Gandhara. BEFEO, Ill. pp. 1-15.

1904
The Qi ‘l-a-i Kuhna Masjid at Delhi. ARASI, for 1902-3, pp. 77-79.
Excavations at Charsada in the Frontier Province (jointly with J. H.
Marshall). ARASI, for 1902-3, pp. 141-184.
Tombs at Hinidan in Las Bela, ARASI., for 1902-3, pp. 213-217,
Inscriptions of Chamba State. ARASI, for 1902-3, pp. 239-271.

- Armenian Inscriptions i in Baliichistan. _ARASI, for 1902-3, pp.
272-274, pe ad Se

2...Tam indebted to Dr. H. ‘eitete, ‘Mere: re s. Gadre, Wr. G. §. Gai and
Mr. 8. V. Chari for. their ‘kind ‘help, especially in connection with the BSE:
graphy appended to thian note, Sy eat

THE LATE DR. J. PH. VOGEL 3

1906
Buddhist Sculptures from Benares- ARASI ; for 1903-4, pp. ale: 226.
Inscribed Gandhara Sculptures. Ibid., pp. 244-260.
A Copper-plate Grant of Bahadur Singh of Kullu. Ibid., pp. 261-
269.
The Sanskrit Pratoli and its New ee Derivatives. JRAS, pp.

539-551,
A Woman's Wiles. Ind. Ant.; sal XXXV, ne 29t.

1907

Some Seals from Kasia. JRAS, pp. 365-66.
1908
Note on Excavations at Kasia. . ARASI, for 1904-5, pp. 43-58.
Inscribed Brass Statuette from Fatehpur (Kangra). Ibid., pp. 107-
109. . 7
The site of Sravasti. JRAS, pp. 971-75.

Catalogue of the Delhi Museum of Archaeology, Calcutta.
Notes de Sculpture bouddhique. BEFEO, VIII, pp. 487-500.

1909 |
Catalogue of the Bhuri Singh Museum, Chamba.
Excavations at Kasia. ARASI, for 1905-6 pp. 61-85.
Notes de Sculpture bouddhique. BEFEO, IX, pp. 523-532.
Ancient Monuments of Kanera ruined in the Earthquake. ARASI,.
for 1905-6, pp. 10-27.
Excavations at Kasia. Ibid., pp» 44- 67.
The Mathura School of Sculpture. Ibid., pp. 137-160.

1910 :
Catalogue of the i ieeege asical loseuy at. Mathura. Allahabad.

1911

Excavations at Saheth- Maheth. ARASI far 1907-8, - pp. 81-131.

Antiquities of Chamba State, Part I. Inscriptions of the Pre-
Mubammedan Period, with 40 plates and 30 text-illustra-
tions. ASI., New Imperial Series, vol. XXXVI, Calcutta.

és Historical Notes on Lahore Fort. Journal, Pariah 3 Fare - Soc. for q91t.

1912

Conservation. ARASI, for 1908-9, pp. 1-4.
The Temple of Bhitargaon. Ibid., , PR: 5-2 T
Exploration and Research. | Tbid., PP. 3337,
‘2

10

B. CH. CHHABRA

The Garuda Pillar at Besnagar. Ibid., pp. 126-129.

Naga Worghip in Ancient Mathura. I[bid., pp. 159-163.

Archeological Exploration in ‘India, 1910-1911. JRAS., pp. 113-
132. |

1913

Een beeld van Koning Kaniska den Kusan, Verslagen en Mededee-

lingen der Kon. Akademie van Wetenschappen, afd. Letter-
kunde, 4° Serie, vol. XII, p. 272.
1914
Conservation. ARASI, for 1909-10, pp. 1-10.
The Temple of Mahadeva at Bajaura, Kula. Z/bid., pp. 18-24.
Exploration and Research. I[bid., pp. 40-45.
The Mathura School of Sculpture.- [bid., pp. 63-79.
The Sacrificial Posts of Isdpur. Ibid., for 1910-11, pp. 40-48.
Iconographical Notes on ‘Seven Pagodas.”’ [bid., pp. 49-62.
Het Koninkrijk Qrivijaya. © emi,

1915
Explorations at Mathura. ARASI, for 1911-12, pp. 120- 133,

1917
Two Notes on Javanese Archzeology, ee PP. 367- 376.

1918
The Yiipa Inscriptions of King Malavarman from Koetei (East
Borneo). Bijdr., vol. 74, pp. 169-232.

4920 _—
Tile Mosaics “of the Lahore Fort, ASI., New Imperial Series, vol.
XLI, Calcutta.
The Sign of the Spread Hand or Five Finger Token (Paficenguh)
: in Pali Literature. Comptes rendues del’ Academie Royale
des sciences, 5° serie, 4, p. 218. Amsterdam.

1923. ;
Note on the Nirmand Mosque Inscription. Acta Orientalia, vol. I.
pp. 230-237.
Facts and Fancies | about oe fin 4h lar of Old Delhi. J. Punjab
Hist. Soc., vol. he

1924

; Serpent Warstin! in: Andent and Modern India. Acta Orientalia,

vol. I, pp. 279-312,

THE LATE DR. J. PH. VOGEL Ul

1925
The Relation between the Art of India and Java. London.
Ganga et Yamuna dans l’iconographie bouddhique. Etudes Asia-
tiques, Paris.
The Earliest Sanskrit medeiets of Java, Publicaties van den
Oudheidkundigen Dienst in Nederlandsch-Indié, Deel 1,
pp- 15-35. ss i

1926
Indian Serpent Lore, or the Nagas in Hindu Legend and Art,
London.
4927

‘A Guide to the Qutb, Delhi. Calcutta.

The Title talavara in Sanskrit and Prakrit Inscriptions. Oostersch
Genooisch, 5th Congress, pp. 326.

The Bagh Caves in the Gwalior State, London. (Dr. Vogel has
written pp. 27-63).

1929
The Woman and Tree or Salabhafijika in Indian Literature and Art..
Acta Orientalia, vol. Vil, pp. 201-231.
Two Notes on Ancient Geography of India. JRAS, | pp. 113- 116,
Opgravingen te Nagarjunikonda (Excavations at Nagarjunikonda)
Oostersch Genootsch, 6th Congress, pp. 37f. Leyden.

1930
La Sculpture de Mathura. Ars Asiatica, Paris-Bruxelles.
Le Makara dans la sculpture de’ Il’ Inde. Revue des Arts Asiatiques.
Annals du Musée Guimet, Tome VI, Paris, pp. 133-47, —

1931
De cosmopolitische beteekenis van het Buddhisme (The cosmo-
politan significance of Buddhism). Rectorial address deli-
vered on the occasion af the 356th ‘Anniversary of the Leyden
University. me

7 1932 ta oy
A Reminiscence of classical Art in the Sculpnixes oF Maral lla-
puram (Mavalipuram)* ‘Etudes d Orientalisme, publies. par

le Musée Guimet 4 a6 mameites x = Raymonde Linossier. Nee
vols., Paris, pp. 525-530. eat Be eae

3 The Boudainabeche eae van » Vooriindie. Arsterdam: &

B. CH. CHHABRA

1933

Unidentified Sculptures from Nagarjunikonda. Ann. Bibl. Ind. Arch,
for 1931, pp. 14-19. .

The Discovery of Frescoes in South Indian Temples. Ibid.,
pp. 16-19.

Prakrit Inscriptions from a Buddhist site at Nagarjunikonda. Epi-
graphia Indica, vol. XX, pp. 1-37.

Note on a Stone Image of Agni, the God of Fire, in the possession
of Sir Eric Geddes. Ind. Ant., vol. LXII, pp. 228-232.

History of the Punjab Hill States. Lahore (jointly with J. Hutchison),

1934

Epigraphical Discoveries in India, Ann. Bibl. Ind. Arch., for 1932,
pp. 18-23.

Op het voetspoor van Boeddha (In the Footsteps of the Buddha).
Haarlem.

1935

In ‘Memoriam Hendrik Kern. Ann. Bibl. Ind. Arch., for 1933.

PP» 1-2.

Archaeological Researches in India during the year 1932-33. Ibid.;

pp. 6-9,
Ancient Monuments ik Kxshmir! lbid., pp. 20+ 25.
Monumentenzorg in Nederlandsch-Indié (Preservation of Ancient
monuments in Dutch Indies). Nieuwe Rotterdamsche Courant.

1936

A standard work on Indian Architecture. Acta Orientalia, vol. XIV,
pp. 224-230.

1937
Archaeological News in Notes. Ann: Bibl. Ind. Arch., for 1935
pp. 4-8. ;
4989

Archaeological News. in nee Ann. Bibl. Ind. Arch., for 1937,
Phy P3195 er

Explorations by the French Mission in Afghanistan. I[bid., PP, 30-

The North- West Froutiér ee Hellenic Civilization—Toxila and
‘Mathura. Revealing India’ 8 Past, Pp. 136-152.

THE LATE DR. J. PH. VOGEL 13

Miscellaneous Writings

Epigraphical Discoveries. Epigraphia Indica, vol. VIII, pp. 166-179,

Shorkot Inscription of the Year 83, [bid., vol. XVI, pp. 15-17.

Additional Prakrit Inscriptions from Nagarjunikonda. Ibid., vol.
XXL, pp. 61-71. |

Two Brahmi and Khardsthi rock Inscriptions in the Kangra
Valley. Ibid., vol. VI, pp. 116-119.

The Head-offering to the Goddess in Pallava Sculpture. Bulletin
of the School of Oriental Studies, London, vol. VI, pp. 339-543.

History of Chamba State, Journal, Punjab Hist. Soc., vol. X, pt.
ii, pp. 5-70, (jointly with J. Hutchison).

A Statue of King Kaniska, [bid , vol. Il, p. 39..

The Man in the Well and some other subjects illustrated at Nagar-
junikonda. RAA, vol. XI. pp. 109-121. :

De oude monumenten van Delhi (The Ancient Monuments of Hd

Delhi). Ned. Ind. O & N. vol. XIV. pp. 355-374.

De Archaeologische Atlas van Groot- Indie, Oostersch Genootsch.
7th Congress, p. 44ff.

Archaeology of Kangra Proper. Punjab Dist. Gazetteers, vol. VII.
Part A, chapter IV (B).. Kangra District. —1924-25.,

Het. verhaal van den wijzen Vidhura afgebeeld op den Barabudur _
(The Vidhurapanditajataka represented on Barabudur) in
Feestbundel uitgegeven door het Koninklijk Bataviaasch °
Genootschap bij gelegenheid van zijn 150 jarig bestaan,
1778-1928. (Commemorative Volume, published by the
Royal Batavia Society of Arts and Sciences, on the occasion —
of the 150th anniversary of its existence, 1778-1928).

Three More Yupa Inscriptions of King Mulavarman
from Koetei (East Borneo)
By B. CH. CHHABRA, M.A., M.O.L., PH.D.

Prof. Dr. J. Ph. Vogel has already published four yiipa inscrip-
tions of king Milavarman from Koetei, East Borneo.' They were
discovered as early as June, 1879. Three of them ate complete and
one fragmentary. They were first dealt with by Prof. Dr. H.
Kern in 1880.

As late as 1940, three more similar inscribed yiipas came to light.”
In July, 1941, | received a set of excellent inked estampages of them
from Dr. W. F. Stutterheim, Director of Archaeology in Netherlands
East Indies, Batavia, Java. He wished me to edit these records for
their newly started epigraphical series, entitled Inscripties van Neder-
landsch-Indié, of which the first ‘number appeared in 1940. Subse-
quently the war situation grew worse and communication between
Java and India broke down. And there is no telling as to when
the normal conditions will be restored. Considering the importance

of the inscriptions, | think, | should no longer keep the discovery to — :

myself. I have therefore decided to publish them provisionally in

the pages of this journal, reserving the full treatment for the afore-—

said Dutch publication or the Epigraphia Indica.

One of these three epigraphs is complete, one is slightly damaged,

and the third, the longest and the most important of the lot, is much
effaced. Their script, language and style are, as is to be expected,
quite similar to those of the already published records. Like these,
the present ones also record certain pious gifts of king Milavarman.
Below | give their texts, adding my notes and translations.

A
| Jayaty =atiba [lah]
2 &iman =éri-Milavarmma-nr[pah 1]
3 yasya likhitani-
4 danany=asmin=mahati[sthale uy}
1 Bijdragen tot de. Taal-, . Land- “en Volkenkunde van Nederlandsch-Indié,
Vol. 74 (1918), pp. 167-282, with three facsimile plates. The article isin English.
- 2 The discovery has been announced in the Oudheidkundig Verslag (i.e.
Archaeological Report) 1940 of the Oudheidkundige Dionst in Nederlandsch-Indié,
pp. 32 and 40, also in the J aarboek (i.e. Yearbook) VU 1942 of the Koninklijk
Batavieasch. Genootschap van Kunsten en Wetenschappen, pp. 106 and 136.
Again, this has been referred to by Dr. U. N. Ghoshal in this journal, Vol. 1X
(1942), p. 117. Tog ete A See ee ty

i

;

Low
t
Ae
3

THREE MORE YOPA INSCRIPTIONS OF KING MOGLAVARMAN 3

5 Jaladhenun=ghrtadhe [num]

6 kapiladanan=tath=aiva tilladanam |]
7 vysabh=aikadagam=a [pi yo] |

8 datva vipresu rajendra [{h u]

Notes
The readings within the square brackets are conjectural, The
inscription consists of two verses, the first being in the Anustubh
metre and the second in the Arya metre. The second and fourth

’ quarters of the first verse are irregular. The second verse obviously

forms a dependent clause, but the construction is not a happy one.
The rule of sandhi has not been observed in srimdn=éri-, 1. 2. The
form datvud, |. 8, may be corrected into dativd. In vipresu, I. 8,
the locative has been used instead of the dative. The word dhenu
in the expressions jaladhenun=ghrtadhenurn, |. 5, has been used
in the technical sense, as a synonym of dana. The opening words
of the inscription echo the first pdda of the following stanza in
Valmiki’s Ramayana: .

jayaty =atibalo Ramo Laksmana$=ca mahabalah |

raja jayati Sugrivo Raghaven=Abhipalitah tt

(Sundarakanda, XLII; 33).

Thanaldues
Hail: to the mighty king, the illustrious Milavarman of eae
rank, whose gifts have been recorded at this holy spot after he, the
most excellent king, has bestowed on Brahmanas the gifts of water,
ghee, tawny cows and sesame seeds as well as of eleven bulls !°

B
1 Sri-Milavarmmana rajfid
2 yad=dattan=tilaparvvatam [l*]
3 sa-dipamalaya sarddham. .
4 yupo= yath tikhite etayoh In")

Notes. | |
The inscription consists of one, verse in the Anustubh metre:
The word parvata has been used in the: neuter’ “gender, while correctly
it should be in the masculine: gender. “The compound sa-dipamalayé
is irregular, the addition. of sa in the beginning” being. redundant.
The dual number in the last word i is. s synthetically wrong, though | the
sense is samlese. vy

3 The gifts metitohed dre ‘are. “quite after the injunctions of the pare ; th
ef. Manusmrti, LV, 229, 238, ete, hoe =

16 B. CH. CHHABRA

| Translation

The illustrious king Milavarman gave away in charity a heap of b

sesame seeds together with a multitude of lamps. This yépa has

been engraved upon (and set up in commemoration) of those two
(gifts).*

1 Sri-Milavarmma rajendra[h*] samal[re] jitya partthi[van i]
2 karad&rh nrpatirhnga =cakre yatha raja Yudhisthirah[u* |
3 Catvarisnéat=sahasrani sa dadau Vapprakeégvare [1*]

4 b............triméat=sahasrani punar=ddadau[N*]

DNs encruasn A sa punar =jivadanam prithagvidham[1*]
6 akaéadiparn dharmmatma partthivendra[h*] svake pure[t*]
yee hes oe to. SPE chasis ,.. mahatmana|[I*]

8 yiipo=yarh sth[apito] viprair=nnana...ih=A[gataih u*]

Notes “eae
Apart from the lacunae, the reading given above isdoubtfulin)
certain places. The inscription comprises four verses in the Anugfubh |
metre. lt contains several mistakes of- grammar and orthography. ait
| The form jitya, |. 1. is a mistake for jitod, but the correct form would
militate against the metre. In karadam, |. 2, the finalnis wrongly ~"
replaced by anusvdra. In rajendra, 1. 1, and partthivendra, }. 6,
the sign of visarga is omitted. In prithagvidham, |. 5, the. first syllable
should be pr. The expression karaddn=nrpatimé=cakre, |. 2, is |
reminiscent of Magha’s Karadikrta-bhiipdlo, etc., (Sigupalavadha, ll. 4
9), describing Yudhisthira himself. The similarity, however, is |
accidental; for, Magha is later than Milavarman by about five hun-
dred years, and there is no likelihood of the former’s having known
the present inscription. Anyway, in this case it is poetry that is found
echoing epigraphy and not vice versa.”

Translation
The illustrious monarch Milavarman, having conquered (other) kings
in the battlefield, made them his tributaries, as did king Yudhisthira.
At Vaprakeévara® he donated forty thousand...... ; ; he again donated

: Tbid,, IV, 229, which speaks of the gifts of tilas and dipas.

Mr. C. Sivaram amurti, i in his recently issued book, entitled Hpigraphical
dee of Kalidasa, Madras, 1944, has collected numerous passages from various
inscriptions, that echo certain expressions in the~ ‘works of Valmiki, Kalidasa,
Dandin, ete.

6 This is the name of the holy piece where ‘Milavarman performed chiaritiog,
It occurs also in-one of his already snyaued inscriptions, where it is eee bed
as punyatama ksetra.

THREE MORE YUPA INSCRIPTIONS OF KING MOLAVARMAN 17

thirty thousand. The pious pia once again (et sa >) jivadana’
of different kinds, and illumination’ in his own town....-++...++ by the
pious one. This yapa has been erected by the Brahmanas “ee have
come here (from) different (parts).

;

7 This gift is sientioned also in one of the previously, published inaesiwtiane
and has been explained, nob without a misgiving, by Prof, Kern and Prof, :
Vogel as ‘gift of live animals’ and ‘gift of cattle «ey? respectively, Can it : mean
‘amnesty’ or ‘setting aside of the déath sentence’ f ” cate

8 ‘Lam not quite sure of the ‘significance of the term akdladipa here. ae nthe

“The status of Dhimmis in Muslim States, with
special reference to Mughal! India

By M. L. Roy Choudhury Sastri

Synopsis :—

Meaning of Dhimmi—attitude of Muhammad towards non-Muslim
subjects— of Abii Bakr— of ’Umar— legal status of Dhimmi-— attitude of
the Khalifas not consistent—how the status of Dhimmis is lost-- view of
Titus regarding Hindu subjects of the Muslims— his view not tenable—.
Turko-Afghan attitude—impossibility of infliction of too hard laws in
Hindustin— growth of a new conception in Hindustan, namely allegiance

to the throne and not to religion— experiments in the south— Mughal
elasticity--Babur’s heritage to Humayun— Mughal experiments— Akbar’s
attitude— new synthesis—Hindu right to live—freedom of worship— pri-
vilege of state service— socialand cultural unions ~- linguistic approach—
Hindu gods in Muslim books— Persian in Hindu books— Historiography.
adopted by the Hindus— translations—common ground of union through
music and Sifism— science and medicine— mutual reaction.

A Dhimme is a member of the Ahiu’dh Dhimmah (‘the Society
of the protected’)—he is a non- ‘Muslim who has not accepted Islam
but has agreed to stay in a Muslim country. He enjoys security
of. person and property in the Ddrul Islam; but he has to pay a
price for that, called Al Jeziah in lieu of his protection.’ His
status has been fixed partly by the Prophet and partly by
Jurists and partly by precedents created by the rulers in different
Muslim countries at different ages.2 All the Muslim rulers and
divines agree that a Dhimmé (in theory at least) has to fulfil all
_ the conditions of the covenants (conscious or unconscious) between
the conquered and the conquerors. If a Dhimmi remains within
the limitations created for him by the law, he cannot be interfered
with. The Prophet says, ‘If any one wrongs a man to whom a
treaty has been granted, or burdens him above his strength, Tam
an advocate See, him til the Bay of judgment, 5 Abi Bakr,

1 Ch G2 an, chap. IX. ¥. 99 : Until thes pay the tax in acknowledgment
of superiority, they are in a ‘Btate of eg errant The word Jeziah is specially
mentioned here, i

he Of, Hamilton, Hedayah tl P- 9: = heave alone non-Muslims and what-
ever they believe in.” For some accounts of the econontic position ‘of the
Dhimmis, ‘seo. Abu Yusuf, Ritabul Kharaj, PP. 73-75.

3 Kitdbut Khardy Be a. For instructions | of the Serdar to his generals,

ne ages mh

ia

ee fe
:
:
3
|
by

Sy
We
yi

STATUS OF DHIMMIS IN°MUSLIM STATES 19

the first Khalifah said, ‘Don't kill’ any of the protected people,
for if you do, God will require the protection of them from you

‘and will cast you on your face in hell.’’* The attitude of Aba Bakr

towards non-Muslims is well-illustrated in the instructions which
he gave to his commander, “When you enter that country, kill
neither old man, nor little child, nor woman. Don’t pull or injure
the monks, for they have let. themselves apart to worship God.
Do not cut down a tree nor cut down @ plant. Do not rip up any
ox or sheep. If a province or people receive you, make an agree-
ment with them and keep your promise. Let them be governed
by their laws and established customs, and take tribute from them
as is agreed between you. Leave them in ‘their religion and their
land.’ Kablifa ‘Umar, that romantic personality who has
eclipsed every follower of Islim except the Prophet, commanded
his general Abi-’ubaida on the eve of his Syrian expeditioh in
these words :— : — tie

“Borbid the Muslims so that they may not oppress the. non
Muslims, nor commit any damage to their property without valid
cause and fulfil all the terms and conditions ‘which you have cove-
nanted with them. The treaty of Jorjan definitely guaranteed
protection to the Dhimmés for their lives and religion, and promised.
that no change would be made in the agreement in future.’ a

There are instances when Muslims were given equal status © with |
non-Muslims. ‘Abdulla bin Sa’d bin Abi Sarb made a treaty i
with the Nubians, in which one of the contracting parties is called
‘the Muslims, non-Muslims and protected people.” The Nubians
bound themselves to protect the Muslims and Dhimmis trading in
Nubia.’ eye tye pas anes eta aN

There was a department for protection of Dhimmis in Iraq,
called Jihbazah. In Spain it was called Diwan-ul-Dhimmi.'

i 4 Kitab-ul-Labagat-wl-Kabtr, Ibn-Sa’id, 1p. 187. eat ae
5° Anonymous Syrian Chronicle C. 8. ©. O. Series III, vols. 14,15. Ibis said

that ‘Umar drove all Jews and Christians out of Arabia because it was a land

of Islam and Islam alone. This statement is an exaggeration. It is true that z

the Jews and Christians were driven out of Hedjaz. But we know definitely. ee

that Dhimmis lived in Medina, Mecca, Khaibar, Yamen and Najran during

‘Umar's time. ", 7 1 eran as
6 Kitab ul-Khiraj. The Prophet said,” “Whosoever. kills a
atuell the scent of paradise, and its scent. spreads a jour
(Book of Governors and Judges; Kindi, pp. 351, | ue
:. 8 Magrizi, Khila’t, vole. p. 200.
9 W. Hosain, Administration of. Just

20s 3 M, L. ROY CHOUDHURY SASTRI

' The legal status of a non-Muslim was recognised by the Muslims
at least in the following matters:—. _

(a) A Dhimmi tie be sepgnted ‘an. sRORtOr to the will of
a Muslim,”

(b) A Dhimmi could be made a Mutawalli of Muslim endow-
ments not connected with the actual practice of religious matters.” -

(c). He might be made an arbitrator to settle disputes,”

@ He might be appointed superintendent of Muslim educa-
tion, ©

“A Dhimmi may lend money at interest io another, or contract
a marriage not. recognised by Muslim law and no one can inter-
fere’’—says Imam Shafi'i. ’Umar II allowed bequests to the
Christian Church for which the technical term ‘Wagqf’ is used.
Abi-’ Ubaida promised not to interfere with the (non-Muslim)
festivals at Damascus; the Christians were allowed to beat ‘Naqus’
{peculiar musical intrument used by the Christians , -in Semitic
tans): at all hours of the day and night,** i!

“The catholicity of the early M ual iis! may be read i in ahs action
at Mu’awiyah when he prayed at Golgotha and then went to Gethse-
mane and prayed at the tomb of Mary.. Amir Abdul Aziz of Spain
lived with. his wife in. a Church in Seville,’ Whatever the strict

laws of the. Muslim divines might ordain, Tritton observes that.
-Khalifas were sometimes better than their laws. The interpreta. —

tion. of. the injunctions. and: laws and. their actual application

depended upon the attitude of the individual Khalifas of Islim
towards the problems. Mutawakkil actually forbade religious’

demonstrations of Christian. relics of religion -in public streets,
‘He ordered that all the graves of the Christians should be levelled
to. ‘the ground and that all the sites of graves should be worked with
‘wooden’. devils’, so that they might be distinguished. 16 While in
Syria, Muslims recognised some of the Christian feasts and divided
the year according : to: theis calendar.’ 7 tn SEE markets were

thé position: ‘of the: heretics i in n Europe during the time of fire Religious Wars of
the 16th & 17th centuries. Be
“Tg ‘Baillie, A Digest of eco laiimutan aed PP. 175-76. pat asic es Alamgirt,
val, VI. pp. 141-206,
_ iL Ameer Ali, Muhammadan ae vol, L -p. 361,
12° Ameer Ali, Spirit of islam, P. 249. Pe ee
18 Ibid, p.249. °° Hat i Ww Tritton, op. cit. pp. 102-9.
15 Makrizi, Khila’t, vol. Ti: pe 178. ey det
16 Tabari, Annals, TI, p. 1889. Soe ae ole :
17. Geography of Mugaddisi, p. 182. New Year’ 3 Day Jan. 1, was. observed
"3S sacred i in Syria, fpeluch & ‘Eayet (Mae udi, vol. Flee p. 406). ;

aes
¢ wat

H
i
a,

STATUS OF DHIMMIS.IN MUSLIM STATES 21°

decorated for feasts of the Dhiinmis, In Bukhara idols were
publicly sold in large numbers."* Christian churches were used
for public proclamations by Muslim officers, The Khalifa Mamun
used to hold Palm Sunday as a public holiday. =o
There are many instances of Muslims during the period of
Kholafai-Rashedin requisitioning and utilising the services of |
Greeks, Romans, Jews and Christians in the departments of Medi-
cine, Finance, Army, Architecture and | ‘Library Management.’
Non-Muslim birth did not prevent the appointment of a convert to
the religious post of a Qadi. Hasan b. *Abdulla b. Al-Marzaban
Sairafi was appointed a Qadi though he was the son of a Magian,”°
But how would a Dhimmi lose his right of protection? The
Maliki, Shaf?i and Hanbali schools of law*' hold that failure to
pay the Jeziah deprives them of protection, Abul Qasim holds that
eight deeds made a Dhimmi lose his right to protection,— (a) forni-
cation with a Muslim woman, (b) attempt to marry a Muslim
woman, (c) attempt to divert a Muslim from religion, (d) robbing
a Muslim on ihe high-way, (e) acting as a spy to an unbeliever,
(f) sending him information or acting ‘as his guide, (g) killing a

Muslim, (h) fighting a Muslim. The Hanbalé and Maliki schools.

further say that. blasphemy of. the Prophet i is a serious offence and
deprives one of one’s status asa Dhimmi. Abi Hanifah says’ that
‘a Muslim must not be too severe with a Dhimmi who insulted the
Prophet. Shafi’i says that a Dhimmi who has insulted the Preps
and repented of his act, may be pardoned. |

Baillie, following Fatawa-i-' Almgiri, correctly summarises. the
position of a non-Muslim ina Muslim land. thus: —*Dhimmis or
infidel subjects of the ee ‘power do TO} subject tigeiselnas !

48 Barthold, Turkestan down to alee Warde Invasion Ge. by %: Subra-

mages Calcutta University) p. 107.

*. 19 Kheda Bux, Contribution of Islam to Creitiaation, u. nb. 964-86.
Mu'awiya welcomed a reputed Christian physician Ibn Athal who was a famous
‘translator of medical treatises. (Muhammad Ali, Early Caliphate, pp. 188-85;
* Sherwani, Studies in the Harly Muslim. Thoughts and Admantsration, Be 1D.

20 Abu-l-Mohsin (tr. by Tughriberdi), vol. IE. p. 28.. ‘
21 There are four branches of law in Islam 1—(a). Maliki, () Shafiay-(0

Hanbali, (d) Handji, Of these Handi is the most popular amongst, ‘the* Sunnis i
‘and Maliki amongst the Shi’as The majority of Indians: belong 1 to the’ Hanafi ha es

‘Law, the Shaf’i Law prevails among. s the. cde in: font. Ind: yiand the ee aie:
follow Imami Code generally. ths a

22 There is an interesting, discussion i in ‘Bada an rdix
the trial of a Mathura Brakmia who had 1 rei led he ieee See e Ibid, vel :
PP» 127-28. ere ee

22 M. L, ROY CHOUDHURY SASTRI

to the laws of Islam, either with respect to things which are merely
of a religious nature such as fasting and prayer, or with respect
to such temporal acts as though. contrary to the Muhammadan
religion, may be legal by their own, such as sale of wine or swine’s
flesh, because we have been commanded to leave them at liberty
in all things which may be deemed to be proper according to the
precepts of their own faith.’’?°

A question has been rasied by Titus whether Hindus are
Dhimmis at all, and if the laws relating to Dhimmis are applicable
to the Hindu subjects of the Muslims in India,** Titus observes,
“The status of Dhimmis may be offered only to those who have a
scripture (Ahlul-Kitab). They are understood to be Jews, Christians,
Magians and Sabeans. In case of pagans, idolators, polytheists, who
are not regarded as Ahlul-Kitab and have no scriptures, it is held

that for them there is choice only between Islam and death.’’> We | 4
may quote by way of reply the words of the Quran:—‘I have
brought faith to God, to angels, to books and to Prophets, ‘‘there ©

is not a people but a warner has gone amongst them") and “there

has. been sent a guide to every nation,""?® Adam, the first Prophet’

of God, is reputed to have been sent to Sarandwip (Ceylon),

The words of Ali are “Sweet is the breeze that comes from the

land of Hind.” So it is clear from the above that. Hind is a country
where Prophet and Book were held to have been sent, Evidently

then, the references to the four peoples who received the Scriptures.

are illustrative and not exhaustive. The Hindus for all practical
purposes were regarded as Dhimmés, and even Aura ngzeb treated
them as such. About the first Muslim conqueror, Muhammad bin

Qasim, Al Baladhuri says, ‘‘Every one who bowed down his head.

and sued for protection was released.’?” Walid bin Abdul Malik
admitted the Hindus to the privileges of the Dhimmis. Aurangzeb
in his official: jurisprudence Fatdwa-i-’Almgiri recognised the legal

status of the Hindus in a Muslim State.” So from the time of _

_ 23 Baillie, op. cit. p. 174, “Compare Ibn. VAdakari's History, vol. I. p. 17 “9
and Tabari’s Annals, vol. LII., p. 1839.

%4 Titus, Indian Islam, p. 18,

25 ‘Ibid, pp. 18-19.
. 6 Qur'an, Surah XXXV,v. 24, and: Surah, XL, v. 24,

.27 -Murgoitten, Al-Baladhuri, p. 440. Azad Bilgrami in his Sibhat-ul- Marion
wad Ghazgldn-ul-H ind has. advanced suai arenes te aS athe as the eighteenth
century.

98 Fatdwa-i Alamgint i, okt VE. ‘pp.’ 141-206, Lephiimis do not subject.
themselves to the laws. of Islam, 37 To this contention of Titus, an answer has
been anticipated by Mirza Mazhar r Janjonin as early as WY 17 be De The great

a =i ei “oa a ee

apesamertg

“i

STATUS OF DHIMMIS..IN MUSLIM STATES 23

Muhammad bin Qasim to that of Aurangzeb the Hindus were treated
as Dhimmis. We can take the above facts to disprove the contention
of Titus that the Hindus could not claim the status of Dhimmis.
Let us examine how far these principles and practices were
‘applied to India during the Sultanate period. We begin with the
‘Arab conquest of Muhammad bin Qasim. The political organisation
which he built up died within ‘forty years of his conquest though
some silent effects were noticeable in the end. He demolished
temples, built mosques, made conversions and imposed Jeziah. But
when he sent information of these activities to his master, he was ~
reprimanded and was told that “it was not the usage of the TLaw.’’
He was therefore asked ‘“‘to repair the damages done in the land
of the conquered.’’ Though the conquest was forgotten soon after-
wards as a political incident, the exemption from the Jeziah,
the appointment of a Dhimmé.as governor on behalf of the con-
quering peuslina and the keeping of accounts in the language of
the conquered” created in Sind precedents for defining the status of _
Hindu subjects in a Muslim State. Passing to the times of Mahmud
of Ghazni, we find that one of his generals was a Hindu and many of —
his archers were Hindus. His governor at Lahore was a ‘Hindu;
his great court scholar, Al. Beruni, was a Pandit in the language —
of the Dhimmis. We do not want to say that Mahmud had any love
for the Hindus—he had ‘served God by killing the infidels’ and
‘turning the land of the idol-worshippers into the land of the
believers’—but in the face of political necessity, religious conside-
rations were overlooked by him. India was a. vast country; her
people had an ancient heritage and age-long tradition to look back
upon; her religion was so much ingrained in her children that a’
sudden change of the entire outlook was not possible, Further, the
Turko-Afghans themselves were converts, and with the change of
their religion they did not change their social system and tribal

‘Safi saint writes :—‘It appears fron the study of the betnieas that Allah the
merciful sent a Divine Book known as the Vedas in the beginning of creation.
It is divided into four parts. In it there are. instructions, orders and prohi-
bitions for the action of mankind herein and hereafter. Hindus do believe that |
God is one. He has created the world. The. world will be destroyed. Men
will get reward for their good actions and punishment for bad ones, This -
cannot be denied that the Hindu religion was.a good: religion.” “(Quoted frora :
the paper Sufi Dara Shekoh by Reza-ul-Karim in A.B. Patrika, dated 16. 10, pe
According to this view the Hindus are receivers of Revealed Books. : :
29 See Chach Namah in Elliot and Dowson,

History of India ete., val +. ire Lager

_ p. 186. Brahmans were agpoiubed'éc to, Sole Jenish. Bee 8. M. deter! 8 } artiche ue te

in Islamic Culture, 1944,

24 M. L. ROY CHOUDHURY SASTRI

traditions. Hence in the lands they conquered, religion more often

than not, was utilised as a political necessity.°* Therefore we find

in Indian administration of thé Turko-Afghan period peculiar
mixtures, settings, growths not strictly. sanctioned by the Qur’an

and traditional usages. In almost all countries which the ’Arabs
conquered, the conquests were almost always wholesale. Such was

the case with Persia, Egypt, Tripoli, Algeria, Morocco ete. The

*Arab conquerors with their zeal for thoroughness brought tradi-

tions, customs and usages of their country to bear upon the ad-
ministration and government of the conquered people, whereas

India having been conquered by converts, there always remained

gaps. These gaps may be measured in terms of comparison between

an Iranian Muslim converted. by the ’Arabs in the 7th century and

a ‘Hindustani Muslim converted. by. Alauddin ‘Khiliji in the 13th
century, Further. the problems. of. an. *Arab conqueror in Iran or

Syria or Yaman were not the same as. those ofa Turko- -Afghan, con-
queror in Hindustin. The vast size of the ‘country, the difficulties —

. of communication, the stern obstinacy of the conquered and no
Jess, the small number of the invaders together with the paucity
of women followers with them and their lack of administrative ex- _
perience, and above all, the softening influence of the Sufi, teachers _
and saints .of the period, forced them to make new experiments and
assimilations in this country. The laws of. the Qur’an, the tradi-
tions of the Hadith; the - decisions. of Figh and the precedents of
the Khalifas could not be applied in toto in the transactions with
the Dhimmis. The laws relating to the Dhimmiés were capable of
being applied to those lands only where the number of Dhimmis
was ‘comparatively small, But in a country where the number of
i Dhimmis far exceeded that of ‘the believers’, a strict application
‘of those laws would create 30 much adaanners difficulty as to
threaten ‘collapse of the . state machinery. The impossibility of
ruling Hindustan on rigid: orthodox principles is proved by
Jalaluddin Khilji’s regrets in his conversation’ with Ahmad Chap
who always accused his’ master of ‘his ‘slack rule’. Jalaluddin
replied, ‘Every day | Hindus, who are the deadliest enemies of
Islam, pass by my place beating drums and trumpets and go out to
the. Jumna and. practise. idolatry. openly..........4+. wand we call
ourselves. Muslims.” “Shame be on us’? the» same monarch
continued, ‘fon - ‘our Padshahi “and on our championship and
p tection of ur t religion that we. allow | our tame” to. be” read

ghia. ae abi a is

STATUS OF DHIMMIS IN | MUSLIM STATES | 25

every Friday from the pulpit and enemies of God and of the religion '
of the Prophet to pass their lives in a thousand comforts, enjoy
wealth and other blessings and live honourably amongst Muslims
with all pride and glory and practices of “Kufr’ and ‘‘Shirg’’ in
our capital under our rule and before our eyes, May dust fall on
our heads and on our Padshahi,’’** Therefore’ whether they liked
it or not, consciously or unconsciously the Muslims had to transcend
the narrow conception of a tribal or communal polity and build up
their system on a wider synthesis of cultures, religions and peoples,
a new theory of citizenship. based upon the acceptance of common
secular loyalties of different races and oiviieatione, as an adoa nets
bond in their state-system, |

The factor of importance was ‘that just with the establishment of
the Turko-Afghan rule, the glamour of the Khilafat fast faded .
away. Quarrels for successions to the Khilafat and establishment of
independent Muslim States owing but little or no real. allegiance
to the Khalifah as the central authority of the Islamic peaples,
were advantageous to the development of new political theories. and is
traditions in India by the Turko-Afghans.:. However, the. structure. 7
of orthodox ‘Islam was sought to be maintained | by a theological
class called Mullas,*? rooted. the Revelations, Traditions, Decisions
and Injunctions of the past. By the time of ‘Alauddin. Khilji,
these scholars were practically a separate clase i in India who. claimed he
to have a decisive say in the matter of administration, 3 However;
_ by the time these Mullas could influence politics, the work had , been:
done—the synthesis was complete amd the. status of Dhimméas had i
been more or less defined. Under ‘the slave’ oligarchy, the posi- re
tion of the Hindus was one of forced. eufferance ; the utilitarian *.
experiments of ’Alauddin could not, afford. to leave the Dhimmi
absolutely outside the pale of. his administration. Alauddin .. fo
the first time connected the Khiljis with a.Hindu. royal house, b:
marrying himself. and his son to Hindu princesses, The radical”
experiments of Muhammad Tughluq in many places, were-applied «
as much to the Muslim. ag to the non-Muslims, The Tegal “ref yemas

3l Dhisu'ddin Barut, Towariuna Piroe-Shabs, p pp. 70-79, ‘Bib.

32 In Islam there is no official priestly class, but due to cthe - at ;
the Qu’ran and Hadith as laws governing t the actior ; nN
of beaks a .SFOUp of g Febolats. grew, up claiming the right t lah the F

(Of Muhammad meee (eloagh ani tncoktp

26 M. L. ROY CHOUDHURY SASTRI

of Firoz definitely formulated common n judicial pagterns throughout
his Empire. Under the tribal monarchy of the Lodis, the political
trend went hand in hand with cultural assimilation of the conquer-
ors by the conquered, as is proved by the appearance of Muslim Sifis
and Hindu Saints, and this was not an accident. The positive
contributions of the Turko-Afghan Government in India were that
the Hindu ethics of | royalty, the Hindu metaphysics of relgious
belief and the Hindu psychology. of social institutions gave a
freshness to the experiments of the children of the mountain steppes,
and they were embodied in the ecmuomnare theory of this and
subsequent periods of Indian history.**

.In. the South - the Turko-Afghan conquests were spasmodic,
‘Alauddin penetrated into the South but his conquests were
mere carnage inspired by © motives. of. plunder more than by
those of religion, and be anticipated ‘the methods of Timir who
came one: hundred and fifty ‘years : after, » ‘Alauddin kept a
Muslim - ‘garrison in each important Biaiegical centre of the
land and his administration was typical of the man in him— .
-@ man without: refinement, without education, without tradition,
but endowed with a. strong common sense, keen sagacity and |
uncommon military capacity. Muhammad Tughluq was the first
ruler of the Sultanate. period who wanted to develop a system
of government with a capital in the South (Daulatabad), But he
had to-pay the penalty of standing against the theologians who had
by then. established. themselves as strong factors in the State
administrations During the weak days of the later
. Pughlig. period, the’Deccan became the laboratory of a neo-
- Talamic. State called the Bahmani Kingdom.  Intermarriage
with the Dhimmis, recruitment of the Dhimmis into the army,
adoption of ‘the Dhimmi royal “paraphernalia, the placing of
the revenue. department: under ‘the. Dhammis,. and the handing
over of the - local administration entirely. .to the. inhabitants,
produced a: fusion of the. two cultures. . In the absence ‘of :a
‘uniformly well organised. “government and due to geographical
dfficulties, the question of observing _ the orthodox laws in the
administration a Darul Islam in southern India ‘could. not: arise.

i et
be Ae

on tnie puislative tendency i Dee iseubsed “in etait in the Din

parent ior ees we Be “

‘History, “Aya i-Hagiy Nama,’ eek pp: ay

_gonnection. Brice, penn: fe

STATUS OF DHIMMIS IN MUSLIM STATES 27

The religious objective in the politics of the country was.
bound to recede to the backgrouud in view of the peculiar
circumstances of India specially i in the South.

By the time the Mughals came to’ India, precedents had been
created, standards set and ideals preached, The Chagtai Turks
were converts like their predecessor the Turko-Afgans, with a
more ancient heritage, with a higher culture and with better
ered ong: They had already changed their religion more than
once;** they had mixed up their blood on many occasions ;
They had already conquered. nearly half of the known world;
indeed they belonged to a race of conquerors. In_ their
administration of the conquered territories, they had already.
made provision for the conquered, and created common civic |
ideals based on political considerations.*” When Babur came,
he urged upon his soldiers that he was fighting a religious war,
and he offered them glory in this world and peace in the next =
through becoming either Ghdzi’s or Shahids and the effect was
electric.3® Like some of his predecessors | who invaded India, ces
he was not blind to the political side of the question.» He
took advantage of the susceptible psychology of his followers tg ge
for reasons political just like a dramatist. But in the actual =
working out of the administration of ‘Hindusthan, Babur belied
the expectations of ‘the theologians. Babur transferred his capital |
to the land of ‘Kafirs,’ and did not eek any. conversion, or Sy
increase of Jiziah. - i Rice

Were the Avabien principles of the soWerniment of ‘he Dhimmi end
by the Muslims followed in India by the Mughals? It was’ a
fashion with the Turko-Afghans to issue proclamations on thé eve
of an invasion when inflammatory speeches were’ made to the
Muslim followers, and in those speeches God, the Prophet, the A
Qur’in, Heaven, Hell, Curses and, Rewards were introduced to |
excite the susceptible sentiments of the unsophisticated followers. ee
But the moment they conquered the country and. settled: down HO ae
administration, they found the’ necessity of making a change i in the ae
light « of expediency. So the. mere ae or _eoteatee erations: We

: “86 Bntyclopuedia of Religions, S.v, 7 Mongol.
2 Bf... Islamic Culture, 1984, p. 595. : nord eae
38 Sirahof Ibn. Hisham, p. 992. ee an in ,

Abdur Rahman bin ‘Auf: ‘Oh son of ‘Auf,

Allah and | combat: those who da not

-.. dealings. with the Hindus.
-. Lodi Afghans.
_ masse, 80 no exhaustive precedents were created by the Arab con.
". querors in relation to the conquered Muslims. If anywhere they
had to deal with the Muslims along with the non-
subjects, they included all the ‘people in one cate
struggle for political existence, services and allian

a with Rajput help;

_ the house of Jodhpur. In the creation, extensio
consolidation of the Timirid Empire of Akbar,

right of the non-Muslims io stay in the Dar
nee attendant evils,

_ . the ‘following -subdivisions :—(1) Muslim subjects
| aes

28 M. L. ROY CHOUDHURY SASTRI

illustrating the psychology of the conquerors, Letus examine
the exact position of the Dhimmés in Mughal India under the
following heads :—. =e By seeeter

(I) right to personal security and freedom from personal vivlence;
(II) freedom of religious worship:
(TIT) position in the public service;
(IV) cultural associations,

I Right to personal security and freedom from personal violence.
It goes without saying that the Dhimmis who submitted to the
rule of the Muslim Chagtai Turks were allowed to live in the

country with all that ‘Aman’ (Peace of the State) meant. It is

significant that Babur conquered Hindustan from a Muslim Sultan,
Ibrahim Lodi, with the passive help of a non-Muslim, Rana Sangram
‘Singh of Chitor, So the question of applying the laws and tradi-
tions of the Arabs regarding the Dhimmis did not influence his
lus. The enemies of thé Chagtais were the.
The Arabs had not to conquer a ‘Muslim country en

Muslim conquered
egory.*? In their
, ces of non-Muslims
- Babur conquered’ Hindustan
pursued by Sher Shah, Humayin saved himself
and his wife Hamidah Banu through the grace of the Hindu
Rana Wansal of Amarkot; Akbar escaped the highhandedness
of Bairam and conspiracy of Maham Anaga through the help of
| n, preservation and
the services of ihe
the question of the
ul Islam could not
arise in Mughal India. The early Mughals were conscious that
the antagonism of the Hindus, specially that of the Rajputs, was.
often responsible for. constant, strife in Sultanate India with all its
During the formative period of the Mughal Empire

“were invaluable to the Mughals,

Rajputs cannot be: estimated: too highly. So

39 Magqriai, Khil‘at, 1. “200. This’ point amay. further’ be studied ‘dndee'

SUE : | bjects in a ‘non-Muslim State such |
Muslim subject of. Shivaji in relation to the Mughal Empire at Delhi. oy feiligs ik ee
(2) Muslim ‘subjects of a different Muslim State such as’ the subjects of pape

STATUS OF DHIMMIS IN: Svea STATES 29

in India, the usual disability attached £6 the: position of a Dhimmi
was confined more or less to the payment. of the Jeziah only.

So far as freedom from personal violence was concerned. the
Prophet said, ‘‘Whosoever kills a Dhimmi will not scent of paradise—
its scent spreads a journey for forty years,’’ and again, ‘“‘the blood
of Dhimmi is the blood of a Muslim,” though Ali said, A Muslim
must not be killed for murder of.a believer,’*? But in actual
practice, freedom from personal violence in an age of chivalry and
war depended more or lesson one’s own power to protect himself.
In villages, the chowkidar was a servant of the village and was not
directly connected with the government, while the Panchayet was
responsible for the maintenance of peace, The caste organisation
in India was so compact that almost all cases of delinquency came
within the scope of the caste Panchayet whose decisions in social .
matters were final, Cases of personal injuries were decided by
the caste heads. In litigations where big people were involved, ut
matters might be taken tothe Qadie or Kotwals,*! The. ‘payment, a
of royal demands through. Patwari, Amin, Quanungo or Karori was, ia
the only connection between the subjects and their rulers in ui
ordinary times. The Turko-Afghan system was not ‘interfered
with by the Mughals atthe out-set. The judiciary «:of ‘the “ ‘
Turko- Mughals was based on the model of Arabia, and the. struc. | os
ture ‘of their courts and the nomenclature of the officers” were
planned on the Arabic model.*? The Muslim law-in general was
applied to the Muslims in both civil. and criminal matters, as well
as to the Hindus except in cases of inheritance, marriage and Sati Nite
and Devadaést. The tradition of murdering an infidel because he
ig a non-believer, as was done by some over-zealous: Muslim rulers
elsewhere, could not be repeated. in Mughal: India.

~The legal position of the Dhimmis during: the early “Mughal
period was not 2 problem, because the right of existence depended
on the capacity of wielding a sword, | The Hindus were “‘left alone
and whatever they believed 1,22: except. in cases where religion. .
was directly concerned. | gehen ans Ul od Hbpie was ” ae ‘

distin aes of fhe Moplals;
42 Ibn es ob cit. ice 304;
; fathers-in-law, broth ers-in )
of very high rank and sometimes governors of impor
So the question of depriving the Hindus

_ times when the personal equatio
_ Jahangir became so furious at the

g

guarantee for protection, Of course a
more the Muslims. because a believer who. had.

bearers) had their feet cut
ata time when J ahangir

_ 46. Hindu marriages in the ear
'~ always under compulsion.’ So the
~ Was much less than it w

BO a Roy CHOUDHURY SASTRI
wanted to assert their rights of giving their :
affairs of the State. But the Muslims at that time were so much ©
divided amongst themselves, there were ‘so many schools of theolo-
gians, the Mahdi movement had created so much flutter in the
orthodox circles, that the Mullas had no time to look after the
mattera concerning the Dhimmis very critically. A review of the
position of the orthodox class in relation to the State has been very ie
elaborately discussed elsewhere by the present writer.” Already

Sher Shah had given a new orientation to the Islamic rule in India
by guaranteeing ‘Peace of the State’ to every citizen irrespective of
caste, creed and colour, and he had. recognised the position of the
Dhimmis as members of the State. The criterion of State protection

was loyalty to the throne and not loyalty to the religion alone,

Generally, allegiance to the King. and not to religion was the

murders for apostasy concerned

3 relieve apostatised was a
greater criminal than one who did not believe ‘at all,+ “Further,
Akbar had already contracted marriage with the Dhimis and the .

-law and their relatives were Mansabdars |

decisions in the secular.

prea

sevyissais

tant provinces,

of the right of freedom
from personal violence did not arise. The marriage of the Chagtais

and Rajputs officially and not always unwillingly* brought in
new social formulas and standards which were of supreme import-
ance in determining the status of ‘the infidels’ in the Mughal Empire, |
There’ were of course instances of royal wrath during the Mughal
n got the better of the rule of law,

refusal of Raja Dalpat Rai io
surrender his Muslim wife that he was unceremoniously put to
death and his body was dismembered,** Two Kahars (palanquin ;
3 off because they obstructed 9 royal hunt.
was taking an aim.’ Once Jahangir killed |
“48 Proceedings of the Allahabud Session. 0} the Indian History Congress
Badauni XI p, 198° says that “it Was a custom to search for hereties and
Mall bhe@m tt 8) oe ko ey ae ‘
44 The school of Badauni held such view openly and supported the murder
of Shi‘as and heretics, See Dinri-llahi. p. 271, : se

lier period: of. Muslim rule
Social benefit arising, out of
ould have been otherwise. Re Ah

46 Lahori, Padshah Namah, Vol. 1.-pt. 1L,p. 57,

AT Tusuk, p. 79, Gh plea

were almost
such unions

STATUS OF DHIMMIS JN. MUSLIM STATES 31

eight dancing girls summarily b ndauee they failed to appear at the
appointed time. These instances prove that. the religion was not
the deciding factor in the dispensation of justice always.

Shah Jahan inherited from his father and grandfather a high
sense of justice and personally meted out, justice irrespective of
caste and creed. He spent 4% hours every day in dispensing
justice, as “Abdul Hamid Lahori says.. At the Jharokha-i-Darshan
usually, justice was dispensed in the presence of the Mutasaddiyan-
i-adalat (officers of justice and theologians), "Ulama.and Mufti.
A very interesting instance of litigation has been mentioned by
Manrique*® regarding the accusation of killing a domestic peacock
belonging to a Hindu by a Muslim. The Muslim pleaded that
he could not be accused of killing an animal which is sanctioned
by Islim. But the Shiqdar in charge retorted, ‘‘The Kimperor
who conquered these lands from heathens had given his word that’
he and his successors would let them live under their own laws —
and customs; he therefore allowed no breach of them, igs This

spirit of Liberalism in a subordinate officer in the matter of, personal “iy i

rights of the non-Muslim subjects: must have. radiated from ‘the
centre, The rights of existence of the non- -Muslims i in the land of
the Muslims in India was an automatic and. spontaneous matter
sanctioned by usage and. not a matter of: individual caprice and 2
concession of a particular monarch. — : a
The king tried civil. and criminal cases both | as a. “daere: of :
first instance, and as an appellate court. An’ interesting case
of contract between two Hindus of Bagqqal caste was decided by. he
king personally. Ibn Hasan and Basiruddin have mentioned seve-
ral instances of litigation in which both parties were Hindus and
of those in which one party was a Hindu and another | Muslim,® EC
When Mughal princes were found guilty, they were generally ad
handed over to noblemen for dealing with them.*° : Mirza. Kai-
qobad, son of Mirza Hakim Bibar §. half-brother, was handed —
over to dagen for punishment.*? Le Xhusra was feet

was not always oeeepuitle

48 “Manriaue, op. cit., pp. 108-114, ,
49 Ibn Hasan, op. cit., pp. 322-23.
50 Bernier, ‘Travels, pp, Hi yan
51 Akbarnamah, Il, | p. 528.

62. Tuzuk, (tr.) p. 336, 2

’ 32 M. L. ROY CHOUDHURY SASTRI

Aurangzeb too was not unconscious of his duties as a lord of
Justice.** There is an instance to show as has already been noted
before, that even men from lower classes were presented before him
so that he might hear their grievances. Even the Hindus could
not be punished for non-religious offences without a trial,°*

Il, Freedom of Religious worship.

One of the political functions of a Muslim State is ‘‘protection
of the Dhimmis.”®> This “protection’’ in the liberal sense of
the term includes freedom. of religious observances as enjoined by
the Qur’in.* If this were to be given effect to, the Dhimmis
should be allowed the right to worship in their own way,
to build their own places of worship and to attend their own
pilgrimages and fairs. In India the observance of Hindu religious:
practices ordinarily and in the popular sense consists in the
worship of plural gods which in Islam amounts to idol worship ©
i.e. commission of “Afr? and ‘“‘Shirk’’, Carrying processions»
of idols*’ and exhibition of deities are strictly prohibited in Islim,-.
but with the Hindus it is a part of their religious practices. We
shall now proceed to describe the attitude of the Mughal semper :
towards these religious practices. . Q

In the Sultante period the Hindus were allowed to offer wie
to the 2008, to take baths in the sacred rivers and to carry images |
in procession, but only by sufferance. As has been already men- .
tioned, the Tavikh-i-F ivozshahi quotes a speech expressing the sincere |
regret of Jalaluddin Khilji at the sight of the Hindus going to:
bathe in the Jumna. The Hindus» continued their age- long forms
of © ‘worship sometimes © contending against opposition, sometimes ae
unnoticed, often making compromises in the chief centres of govern- &
mental influence by purchasing concession on payment of Jeziah
and other financial contributions,
< Babur found in India temples, religious fairs, Jeziah, and the
. pilgrim-tax. He had declared his love for Islam on the eve of

the battle of Khanwaha by renouncing wine and declaring Jehdd. |
; te > justified his declaration of faith by allowing the conversion
58 Faruki, op. cit. pp. 100, 419, he
54 Paruki, op. cit. p-488. 9
55 Ibid. pp. 481-483,

66 Surah CLX. v6: “To. you your faith and to me mine,”

57 In Balkh idols ‘were sold in public. Atal, Barthold, op. « cite
G. Pyrat: str. pp. Apt 108. ° a ; 7

STATUS OF DHIMMIS IN MUSLIM STATES 33

of a Hindu temple at Sambal into F) mosqué,®* as well as the
destruction of a temple at Chanderi through Shaikh Zain, his Sadr*®
and of another temple at Ayodhya through Mir Bagi.®° It seems that
there was a dual personality amongst the Timirids, Consistency
was hardly a virtue with them; the personal equation was a great
factor in their direction of polities, religion and administration,

Humiyiin was essentially a mystic and there is not any ins-
tance of destruction of a temple or interference with the worship
of the Dhimmis under his rule. But his reign did not mark any
perceptible departure from the traditional line either for better
_or for worse, so far as religion was concerned.

Akbar’s reign at the begining witnessed destruction or detent
tion of temples at Kangra in 1572 in which the umbrella of the
goddess was riddled with arrows.°! A temple at Benares was.
converted into a Maktab. Jain idola were destroyed by a Mughal
Governor in Gujarat against Akbar’s orders, 6®

Akbar had formally abolished the pilgrim-tax while ite was
scarcely twenty during his stay at Mathura,** He removed the
restrictions on building of places of public worship and imme-
diately afterwards numerous such’ places of worship were
constructed.® Christians. built their. churches at Agra, Thatta,
Lahore and Cambay. Jain temples were built. at Satruiijaya and
Ujjain.*” Man Singh constructed at a cost of 5 lakhs of rupees
a very beautiful temple at Brindaban, which has been very Rous
extolled by Abdul Latif in his travels. 6° |

Regarding fairs and festivals, the “ideas. of Akbar were cosmo-
politan, The list of festivals permitted to. be. celebrated in the
Empire has been given in detail by the writer elsewhere. EF

58 Annual sport oj the Archaeologica Survey of India Vol. XIt. pp. 97-28.
§9 Puzuk-i-Babur, 45h
60S. K, Banerjee, “Babar and the indus? i in the “Journal a the United

Provinces Historical Society, 1936. ane Sane

61 Badauni, (tr. by Lowe) II. p. 165. ‘Badauni (Vol. IIT. p, 118) Sites an
instance where Haji Sultan of Thaneshwar ‘was punished for killing a cow there:
62 Abdul Latif, Travels. p. 51. _ | 68 tlilnaie set BP. 263-64.

64 Akbarnimah (tr. by Beveridge) IE, Pp. 190. aig! : E
65 Dua Jarric, (tr. Payne). p. 75. 2 ey tie oa
66 Lhe Annual Report of the Jesuit Mission i in 1697. Sen
67 Jaina Sdsana, Benares, Bir Samvat, 1410.8
68 ’Abdul Latif, op. cit. pp. 38, (60-51... ‘Man 8 i gh. ‘also built a
- mosque at Rajmahal in Bengal which stands, to-day, and ‘Namaa is
there every Friday... a ve
69 Din-i-lahi, Pps Mr, 151, 155, 156 at 16, By so os ae ES

"g

il
a
»
¥
pI
;

in anteater

(18. Lahori, op. cit. I, p. 40, Pavmn dated Jan, 1638, Qaivini M.S: p. 405. ~

34 M. L. ROY CHOUDHURY SASTRI

On the whole Akbar’s rule had a purpose, a policy and plan.
Events whether spiritual or secular moved more consistently than
they did at any other period of Mughal administration before and
after him, Of course the orthodox section grudgingly. suffered
the grant of concessions to. non-Muslims in religious matters. No
sooner Akbar died, than Mulla Ahmad, one of the principal theo-
logical scholars of the age, sent letters to various provincial courts
‘to get things corrected at the beginning of the new reign [of
Jahangir] lest it be too late.’’7°

So far as the building of temples was concerned, Jahangir
continued his father’s practice of permitting non-Muslims to build
places of worship. Benares, the city of temples, added three score

and ten temples during Jahangir’s reign. Bir Singh Bundela

built a magnificent temple at Mathura. Christians were permitted
to build churches at Ahmadabad and Hooghly, and burial grounds
were set up at Lahore and Agra.”! Butatthe same time Jahangir
demolished : temples at Mewar, panes and Kangra,”, and churches
were closed at Agra,”

‘Jahangir: was more a mixture of opposites than not. He is
credited by the orthodox Muslims with restoring the festivals and
fairs of the Muslims.‘ He refers in his autobiography to his
celebration of Muharram, Ramadan, Shab-i-Barat, as well as that %
of Rakhi, Shivaratri, Dussera and Dipavali festivals in which he -
himself took part.’® Christians were allowed to enjoy celebration
of the Christmas, Michaelmas, and Waster -festivals and sometimes
payments were made for these celebrations. The Kotwal had direct

regulation of these festivals, 76. Roesays, The Hindu pilgrims at

Hardwar numbered about five hundred thousand a year.””

_ The first ten years of Shah Jahin’s reign were decidedly miatked
by orthodoxy, and events moved on theological lines. - Soon after his
accession, Shah J ahan revived the pilgrim-tax, though it was

. remitted at the instance of. the Kavindracarya of Benares whom

Shah Jahan revered 80 much. He forbade the completion of temples

: fomrati:’ in his father’s time." 78, He cnueed the destruction ne about

70 Ahmad Sachindi; Maktubat, (printed edition) vol, e PP. 2 26.

71 “Memoirs, J.4.9.B, 1916. PP. 174-76. .
72 Luewk Tr., 1. pp. 18-184 .

73 Roe, p.812,

= ) T& Payne, Jahangir and the I sires b. 15.
5° BadSuni, (tr. Lowe) ie PP- iis 204, a.

“96 Ibid. p. 112. ; 4 a a. egy Roe, Op: Sabb: a1.

Be
STATUS OF DHIMMIS IN MUSLIM STATES 35

seventy-two temples in and near Benares, four in Allahabad, three
in Gujarat and some in Kashmir. Beautiful temples of the Orchha
family were not spared by Shah Jahan.”* Hindu officers under
him were too imbecile or too unwilling to protest against ‘this
wholesale reversal of the policy and practice of the previous reigns,
Shah Jahan did not: allow the Christians the right to offer

worship in churches publicly, though he would not interfere vate
private worship, ,

The latter part of Shah Jahin’s reign ‘was not characterised by
the iconoclastic activity which marked his early days, and it was
possibly due to the increasing influence of Dara in politics, ‘Dara
personally presented a stone railing to the temple of Keshav Rai at
Mutira®’, Jai Singh was given the’ full control of Man Singh’s
temple at Brindaban in 1639; Hindu temples of Gujarat were
restored to the Hindus after 1647°,

Aurangzeb, the ‘‘Zindapir’’ (living hero of J slim), was & Sogo
personality. He had already demonstrated his iconoclastic zeal as
a prince’. But che issued a farman in 1659 soon Bier ba |
accession which ran thus: —

“Long. standing temples should not be demolished, iat nonew
temples should be allowed to be built... Our royal command is that
in future no person shall in unlawful ways interfere with or assrrp
the Brahmans or the Hindu residents in those places’’®*, pend
But two. years afterwards, in 1661, Aurangzeb’s general, maweliing
in Palamau and Kuch Behar destroyed a large number of temples
and ‘idols, converting many tomes, Into mosques**, Aurangzeb

79 Sir Jada Nath Serkan, History of Atirangeed Ili. throws the res-
ponsibility of this destruction. of temples- in Guzarat on Aurangzeb who
was the Viceroy at that time; Saxena (Shah Jahan, pp. 89-90) says. that
Aurangzeb was too young (in. 1647) to have a definite policy of his: own: at
that time and according to him Shah Jahan was responsible for this order
of destruction. But the very fact that temples were restored by the, ‘Hindus
after Aurangzeb’s departure proves the truth of Sarkar’s view. (Bhati Ha
Khan I. p. 464).° Shah Jahan reprimanded Aurangzeb: for ‘densolishing the
temple of Khanda Rai at Satara. a

80 Akhbarat dated 14th Oct. 1666, Akbar. i ig. said Wee have. offered, & aaulen ad
umbrella to the temple of Jwalamukhi. The. worshipping utensils} in. the
temple of Seringapatam bear dnegriptions. sho ing “he
Tipi Siltan. au

81 Akhbarat, dated 7th ‘Auge 1689,

82 Sarkar, op. cit., Vol. ue PR. 519.824,

88 J.A.8.B. 1911. p: 1789. ae ce Ble ce Rat a oc

84 Khafi Khan II. pp. 136, 162, ‘Mir fp . book | i
debirection of temples i in Kuch Behats

36 M. L. ROY CHOUDHURY SASTRI

issued orders for the confiscation or destruction of those temples
which had been restored to Hindus after his transfer from
Gujarat®.

The year 1669 A.D. is a memorable year in the history of
inconoclasm in India. In this year the Governor of Orissa was
ordered to destroy all temples old and new, including those built
during the previous decade, For the fault of a Brahman in Benares
who used to attract both Hindu and Muslim students, Aurangzeb
ordered the closing of all schools and stopped attendance of the
Hindus and Muslims in the same school®*. The governors were
only too glad to carry out the instructions of their master. News
reached the capital that the temple of Malarina in Ajmer, the
temples of .Vigvandth and Gopinath at Benares, the temple of
Keshav Rai at Mathura built by Bir Singh Bundela, had been destroy-
ed.*” Hindus, out of fear, began to remove their idols to places of com

parative safety.-The famous deity of the Govardhan temple was first

removed to Jodhpur, thence to Udaipur and installed there under
the protection of Rana Raj Sing (March 1672).8* This was one of
the causes of the estrangement between Udaipur and Delhi, In

Gujarat, safety of Se was purchased on payment of cash to Qadis —
of Muhtasibs,®*:

- Out of despair. came courage of ahe Hindus and at Uijain a

| HE wali officer of the State who was sent to destroy a temple was

‘killed. In Gujarat Hindus offered so determined a resistance that

: Friday prayers had often to be stopped in public mosques, The

Mérat-i-A hmadé mentions that royal orders were sent to provincial
officers to secure the use of some mosque for Friday prayers.°° The

: determind resistance of the Hindus possibly. cooled the fury of

Aurangzeb for some time, but soon after the death of Jaswant
Singh in December 1678, the storm burst forth once more, Abi Dorab
destroyed: temples at. Khandela remorselessly. Jodhpur which was
not at war with Aurangzeb till then, witnessed demolition of some

‘ | of her temples by etal ae and this led to a bitter war with

- $5 Mirat-i-Abmadi 1, Pp. 259-260,

86 Orme’s Fragments, 7, 85. : trad

‘87 The stones of this temple were brought to Agra and were placed under
the steps of Jahangir’ § mosque, .Manucci, IL. p. 116.

88 G, §.‘Ojhah, History of Udaipur I. pp. 34-36. Ojhah gives iitieonitat
details of the refusal of the installation ‘of the idol by the Jodhpur State
officials and of the. romantic adventures. of the priests during the orate

89° English Factories i in Fadia XU. PP. 140-61. be
90 Mirai-i-Abmadi—t, B- 28h ween

he

STATUS OF Deaivamts IN MUSLIM STATES

the Mughal Empire. ‘Within’ one year (from March 1679 to
February 1680), at Udaipur alone, no less than two hundred and
thirty-five temples (including the three finest ones on the edge of
the lake Udai Sagar), and sixtytwo at Chitor®! were destroyed,
The prince of Udaipur retaliated by making reprisal at Ahmadnagar
and. by destroying a large number of mosques in that area.** Even
Jaipur, which was bound by ties of traditional friendship with
the Mughals, was compelled to close sixty-six temples.°? During
the following period, Aurangzeb declared a crusade against temples,
On his way to the Deccan he destroyed all available temples that
lay near or along the route. After the conquest of Golconda and
Bijapur he had ample scope for satisfying his crusading zeal
by destroying temples in those States. Akhbarat of this period
mentions with great glee the incidents relating to the destruction
of temples in Gujarat, Dwaraka, Marwar, Aurangabad, Ajmer,
Purandar, Bundelkhand, Sirhind and Hardwar,. while occasionally
referring to the opposition of the Hindus, and, Sikhs. Many of
these temples no doubt were restored by the Hindus subsequently
but not with the pomp and splendour of the past. Indian archi- |
tecture lost much of the glory that was peculiarly its own, ,

As a corollary to this: anti-Hindu drive, Aurangzeb re-imposed
the pilgrim-tax.** From an economic point of view it was rather —
a gain because one solar. eclipse bath brought Rs. 100 000/- to~the
state,*® The Holi and the Dipavali were stopped in 1665.96
According to the Akhbarat of llth Dec. 1694 the cremation of dead
bodies on the banks of the river Jumna was prohibited. The
Hindus were .not allowed to dress, like. ‘Muslims according to the
injunctions of the Mullas. 3 : !

The iconoclastic zeal of | the ‘Muslims was so, much satisfied by
_ the measures of Aurangzeb that there was no more.zest left in them
for about a quarter of a century for revival of iconoclastic activities.
Moreover, confronted by a spirit of defiance amongst provincial .
governors, by the rise of the militant religiosity. amongst the Sikhs
and by the awakened consciousness of Hindu Pad-Padshahi amongst
the Mahratias under. eae eo; the weak avails role bests wh

, 91 Madasir-i-’ Almgirt. pp. 176, 8 16088 sete ay ee 7
92 Fatahat-i-’ Almgiri. Ms. f. 19. be
93 Madagir-i-~’ Aligirt. p. “194.
94 Manucei, II. p. 82; IIL. “988-280, ey Pat sais dact
95 Bernier, p. 308, The rate at. Allahabad was 3 He: eral. ver hem
_ 96° Mirdt-i-Almadi-l. Be 261. 1 Manton) P. 154s sn A

38 M. L. ROY CHOUDHURY SASTRI

hardly afford to continue the same. crusade against the Hindu
temples, oo

To summarise the position of the non-Muslims in respect to the
right to worship, to build temples, to attend pilgrimage and
fairs,—Babur was just a beginner in the art of iconoclasm;
Humayun was a mystic and there is no evidence to brand him as
an iconoclast. Akbar was by nature an universalist and offered
the widest-latitude to all his peoples in religious matters. J ahangir
was as great as he was small; he was not too much of an iconoclast;
much can be said of him on either side. With Shah Jahan a new
policy was initiated and was continued for the first ten years of
his reign, but the politician ultimately prevailed dver the theo-
logian in him, Dér& and Jahanara relieve the gloom which other-
wise envelops the Dhimmis. Aurangzeb’s attitude iowards every-
thing non-Hanafi, judged by the events, leaves hardly anything
to'say in his favour, The later Mughals were mere shadows of the
great Timtrids and deserve no specific mention, because they had

no policy of their own, and if ever * they had any, they could not
enforce it.

f

LI Position of the Dhimmis in. the public service

The Mughals were foreigners when they first appeared on the. Ladian. ,

soit, Guided by the necessity of preservation of their throne, they
had to employ men who could be trusted most in the land of

foreigners, The army was, therefore, their first consideration.

Again, the conquered: country required to be administered and the
primary concern of the. administration was finance and justice,
Lastly, the natural desire of every ruler was to give appointments
to kinsmen and connections and the Mughals were no exception,
Thus three factors guided the appointments in the state service, viz. :
ae (a) the necessity of securing. a faithful army,

| (b) the requirements of Finance and Justice,

(¢) nepotism.

. The ‘Mughals generally wr isidedy Alietr riggers to those whu
" belonged to their own tribe, or to kindred tribes, or to their
religion or to those connected with them by marriage. Personal
attachment to the monarchy was often rewarded with high appoint-
ments. Pelsaert mentions in his. Remonstranti how a Rajput horse..
_ taan named Ani Rai jumped upon a lion ‘to save the life of Jahan-
gir and was seriously mauled, As @ price for his extreme atiach-

ment and sacrifice, Ani ‘Rai, was: “promoted to ‘the rank of three

thousand, cn Pelsaert takes this occasion to emphasise “the devotion

33

STATUS OF DHIMMIS IN MUSLIM STATES 9

displayed by such subordinates, who were ready to give their life
for their master as if they were actuated by. thé passion of love.”

In the judicial branch of administration, which was looked upon
as a part of the ecclesiastical department: of the state, the posts
were regarded as a close preserve of the Muslims. The Sadr us Sudiir,
Qadi ul Quaddat, Qadi, including Qadi ul ‘Askar, Mufti, Mir‘adl
and similar religious dignities, were sealed against non-Muslims.
Only in those cases where the litigants were Hindus, Hindu pandets
were utilised in the judiciary. But as regards the appointments
on the purely administrative side, the number of non-Muslims,
though not proportionate to their numbers, was not negligible, Dur-
| ing the reigns of Babur and Humiyiin the Mughal policy.could
: not be and had not been shaped. Akbar made a gignatic change
in the matter of higher appointments—merit was the criterion of
promotion and not always birth. Bhagwan Das, Man Singh, Rai
Singh, Todar Mal rose to the.rank of governors of some of the most
important provinces. Todar Mal was made the finance minister .
and for some time the principal minister of. Akbar.°* Of the. twelve.
provincial finance ministers in 1594-95 no less than ‘eight were
Hindus?**, © Minor. appointments i in the department: of finance and
accounts, went to the Hindus in : large. numbers. The Muslims did
not find it. inconvenient to. work under the Hindus because Todar
Mal regulated that accounts were to be maintained in Persian. In
| other departments such as medicine, surgery, music, painting, the
+ number of non-Muslims were not inconsiderable, as may be piers’

: from Blochmann’s list in the appendix of Ain-i-Akbar?. — : :
A During the time of Jahangir-the policy. of Akbar in the matter
! of administrative and financial. appointments was continued. . But
at the outset. the Hindu. nobiliiy: compromised their position when
Man Singh’s complicity in favour ‘of his nephew Khasrau was sus-:
pected. Their position was further worsened when. Raja Rai’ Singh
of Bikaner actually rebelled. against Jehangir. Still we find: at
least three provincial governors: -who were non-Muslims; namely
Man Singh, Governor uf pone fae Kelsay son of Todar Mal,

: 97 ‘ Pelsaart, Ramontronth ortnd' te) p. 53 a
98 pests op. vit. Th. Pe 368. arte

vol... p. 206. sale re
100 4kbarnamah, teat, ott 6

40 M. L. ROY CHOUDHURY SASTRI

Governor of Orissa and Raja Vikramjit, Governor of Gujarat. Mohan
Das acted as his Dewan in the third year of his reign.

During Shih Jahan’s reign, the practice was not as narrow
as were the principles on paper. Shah Jahan started by issuing
an ambitious order that appointments should henceforth go to the
Muslims only.?°! _ But we find men like Rai Todar Mal, Rai Kashi
Das, and Rai Bahor Mal holding very high posts in the finance and
accounts departments, Rai Chandra. Bhan, the great writer of
Chahir Chaman, was in charge of the Dar-ul-Insha (Secretariat).
Raja Raghunath officiated for some time as the Imperial finance
minister.1°? Departments were often placed under the charge of
Hindus; e.g. the Diwin-i-Tan and Diwan-i-Buyatat(Dept. of escheated
property).under Rai Mukund Das.?” Provincial Diwanship was held
by Beni Das in Behar,!** Rai Dayanat Rai in the Deccan,'” and
Rai Sobha Chand in Lahore.!°* Jaswant Singh and Jai Singh were
the chief ‘Umaris of the state in the last period of Shah Jahan’s
reign, and they also served as provincial governors, Muslims as
a class did not like the monotonous routine work of the accounts
department; as such, these posts were taken up by the converted
_. Hindu, The Muslims preferred appointments in the army

and so did the Rajputs; whereas ordinary Hindus filled up.
‘subordinate ranks in the different branches of government services,
as has been recorded by Pelsaert in his Remonstranti. | ,

Aurangzeb’s reign is typical of the man. He started with
Jaswant Singh and Jai Singh as chief ’Umards of the State, As
a price for their treachery against. Dara, they had their positions
_ and emoluments continued and increased.**’ But at the end of his
reign there was no Hindu governor in the whole Empire. Raja
- Raghunath, the Hindu Dewan had no Hindu successor, Aurangzeb
issued a Farman that no Rajput should be appointed Foujdar or
_ Subadar, Not only should new appointments not be offered to
_ Hindus, ‘but even promotions should not be given to those who are
% sini in service. Akbharat of ees | Moy, 1703 mentions that

101 Khafi Khan, Text.—I. -p. 309.
102 It is worth remarking that Shah Jahin did not generally confirm
Hindus in high posts, though they were given temporary appointments often.

ei Converted Hindus were of course pestered as Was Sadulla Khan.

» 4 103: Padshanaimah, Lahori I: #10:

ano leas. {bid—IT, p, 408.

“105 Thid—I. pp. 182,184.

», 106 Tbid—IT. p. 279. fete ae
eae a, oe Namah, Text—L, PB. 611. ma sale

ey

Ss

Aurangzeb rep:

for a deputy
which forbids
ments.2°% But
tion of finance,

that 50% of the appoiniment in that department should go to the
Muslims.!® He forbade the Hindu ‘army officers. from appointing
Muslims as personal servants under them.
b failed to achieve the purpose for which they were
is borne’ out by his letters in the last few years of

Aurangze
designed, as

his life.

In spite of their declaration of Je
Sultin Mahmud of Ghazni recruite

Shab’s army
total number ;

had the famous Hemu as his géneral-in-chief.
information about the posit
and Humayin, but

of the Surs, it
in the army
process of Hin
derable time

fresh stimulus to the Hindu to see

Let us now

Hindus holding ranks upto five
its period of glory in the light o

Mine obs) 2! Bime of ei 2) Pinte ofc Time of

‘ Akbar Jahangir = Shh Jahan - Aurangzeb

,, 6000 Rye ale ta ares Dee ott Eee

=< BO0O iL) Bes ee ia meters Cue een ney,
=, A000) ee PERG REL. Peer ae

109 Farugi

to justify this order
of Pathans were made id of
110 Khafi Khan, Text,
“UL Mira’t-i-Ahmadi, Te:

6

108 Madgir-i/ Almgiri. p. 528. Similar references may be
khab-ul-Lubad, Text, I. p. 249,. mt BRAT get, AI

TATUS OF DHIMMIS IN MUSLIM STATES 41

rimanded his son for recommending Jai Singh Il
governorship. | Masir-i-’ Alngtré contains a Farman
the appointment~of Hindus in. revenue depart-
owing to the resulting inefficiency in the administra-
Aurangzeb had to modify his order to the effect

11° But all attempts of

The Hindus in the Army
had, the Muslim invaders like
d Hindus in the army. Sher
was manned by Hindus to the extent of 50% of the
his great general was a Hindu, Bikram. Adil Shab
, We have no definite
ion of the Hindus in the army of ‘Babar
considering the number of Hindus in the army
may be surmised that the large percentage of Hindus
of Sher Shah was nota sudden influx, | Certainly’the
du recruitment must have been going on: for a consi-
past and the liberal policy of Sher Shah only added a
ek employment in the state army.
give a comparative table regarding the position of the
hundred, of. the Mughal army in
f Kewal Ram’s history :— |

by the Hindu officers.
prohibiting employment —

in his book “Aurangzeb and his times

¢ similar Farman

4 42 M. L, ROY CHOUDHURY SASTRI
Time of Time of © Time of Time of
Akbar Jahangir Shah Jahan Aurangzeb
Bank 3500 1 1 -- x 4
: »» 8000 3 #8 24 18
i y» 2500 x 3 5 5
k 5, 2000 8 18 22 16
a ,» 1500 x 5 31 27
,, 1000 8 4 33 15
900 x. 4 2 1
i: », 800 x 8 20 x
» 700 4 x 15 é
i », 600 x 1 1] 2
» 500 7 5 ee 2
Total 41 55 227 104

‘The following table gives the number of mansabdars holding
rank from 7000 to 500 according to different authorities! ?2:—

‘Abul Fadi De Lact Kewal Lahori Total

sehen Gaede ys gee ee ke ats

In the time of Akbar the position of Hindus in the army was
high, though the proportion was not pretty large. The Rajputs lost
their position just a little, owing to the suspected complicity of
Mansingh in favour of Khusrau during the war of ‘succession
in 1605 as has been noted already: Nir Jahan favoured the Persian

112 The exact number of mansabdars in Akbar’s time cannot be given
correctly; Blochmann’s list (Calcutta Review, April 1871) differs from the list
given by Sir Sayyid Ahmad Khan in his printed Persian text of the JA’in
pp. 180-86, The former mentions 419. and Sir Sayyid 408 as the number of

-Mangabdars, Jahingir’s list has. beén collected from “The Empire of the
Great Mogal’’ by the Dutch traveller, De Laet (p.117). He gives the total

. number. of mangabdars as 439, but dogs not mention them separately. Shah
 Jahin's list has been. given. in -Padshihnamah by Lahori and also by Kewal,
ates ‘but they do not agree in detail. Aurangzeb’s list has been given by the author
68 'Umara-i-Hanud, - published * by Anjman-i-Taraqgi-i-Urdu, but it differs
widely from Kewal Ram’s list. Unfortunately *Umara-i-Hanud does not
géfer to any authority, == S ptas: a uate el

STATUS. OF DHIMMIS IN MUSLIM STATES cs 43

nobility to the Reddyartare of the Rajputs. During Jahangir’s
reign, the Hindu position in the army was. not bad. Taken as a
whole, during Shah Jah&n’s reign, the position held by Rajput
houses in the Mughal court was not low from the point of view of
state service. At the end of 1647, Hindus numbered 97 out of a
total of four hundred and fifty-three, Between 1638 and 1647 A.D.
in Shah Jahan’s reign, out of thirty-four promotions in the superior
grade Hindus secured no less than twenty-one.’!*. Raja Jaswant
Singh and Raja Jai Singh held independent charge of the army and
led expeditions. Shih Jahan did not disturb the hereditary ami-
cable relation that had existed during the last two reigns between
these two houses and the Imperial court, and the Mansabs devolved
from father to son in. regular succession. The Emperor himself
performed the investiture ceremony in orthodox Hindu fashion by
using sandal, paddy and grass!!*,- Even Aurangzeb could not turn
out the Rajputs from the army; during his long reign of over half
a century we find no less than one hundred and sixty Hindu names ©
in different periods of his army lists and the maximum number at.
one time was one hundred and four, The highest command of seven
thousand was held by Jai Singh of Amber, Jaswant Singh of
Jodhpur and Raja Sahu, grandson of Shivaji?}*®, A peculiar feature
of Aurangzeb’s recruitment was the admission of Mahrattas into
the higher rank of the army. . Out of thirteen Hindu mangab-
dars of 5000, no less than five were Mahrattas. Hereditary mangabs
in the Jaipur, Udaipur and other Rajput houses continued. It is
to be noted that though they retained their rank!!*, they were not
trusted, nor were they called upon to discharge any responsible duty
of the state as in previous reigns, Whenever Aurangzeb called.
the Rajputs to join a war, he aie them to a Musfim commander,
as we find in the Deccan wars.. “
To conclude, Hindus during the. reign. of “Aurangzeb were not
wanted in the public service. ‘They were made to feel that they were
allowed to exist only by sufferance, No doubt in vi the army the

113 This figure has been collected from, stray references in the Padshaknamah

of Lahori, I. pp. 258-821.
114 Aurangzeb stopped the ceremony of ‘investiture because it sacked

of Hinduism. hese
115 Sahu's rank was more or. faa ornamental: he was to yo
effective commander at that time, . :
116 But i in Many instances the rank was jo rodedad as in ;
‘who was given ‘Mansab of, 5000, though ] hist her, ‘Jai ‘Singh had: 7000.7

Biase grandson of, J ai Singh held the rank of 4000. i. ay

~ te

wee ee eer ERA PORTER FT

ie tion Volume. Ce ay eee
:. : 120 LRAS. 1915, ee Seen As ‘ia ; 121 “Dinei-Dlahi, pp. 17-20.

44 M, L. ROY CHOUDHURY SASTRI

Hindu houses existed as mere hereditary figure-heads. In the lower
ranks of service the | Hindu intellect was utilised mostly from the
converts as in the case of Q&nungos and Karoris. In the depart-
ment of finance and accounts, Hindus could not be dislodged},

During. the later period political pressure threw the state machi-
nery out of gear and the systematic neglect of the Hindus was
impossible. Hindus were in every department without much consi-
deration of religion on either side. Recruitment in the state service
was-more a matter of necessity than of policy or principle.

IV Cultural Approaches

In the domain of culture, the Mughals were much less orthodox
than they were in religion. It was on this plane that both the
communities attracted each other. The process of fusion was
facilitated by intermarriage fitst between the Turks and the
Persians, and finally between the Mughals and Rajputs. These
intermarriages resulted in the fusion of three languages—Turki,
Persian and Hindustani. There is no doubt that the Persian
language was Indianised during this period. It was enriched by the
addition of Indian words, idioms and diction so much so that the

Persian writers of Iran interdicted the Indian Persian as bastard. ir
Dr. M. Z. Siddiqi of the Calcutta University has collected a list.

of Indian words used in the Humayinnémah of Gulbadan Begam —
which .was written as early as mid 16th century.'?° On the other

hand in couplets of Behari’s Sat Saz, there are about a hundred
' Arabic and Persian words which have been noticed by Mr.

Dewhurst.}2°. We have shown in our work called the Din-i-Llahi
that Indian poets like Amir Khusru-and Abdur Rahim Khankhanan
mixed up Hindi, Sanskrit, Urdu and Persian hemistiches in the
same couplets,!?1 The custom of using ‘Pen-name’ (Zakhallus) in

poetry, though. not. heretofore absolutely unknown, became. more

common among Hindu ‘poets. The Muslims,. on. the other hand,

- introduced their books on: Hindu subjects. by: invoking the names
. of Hindu gods, To mention a few of them:—

Abdur Rahim began his ‘Madanastak’ with the name of
‘Ganesh’,

117 Khafi Khan, Il. pp. 249- 252,
118 Wala Dagistani in Hayleatnl Shu’ ane. refused to include the Indian
writers amongst the Persian writers...

149. See Dr. M. Z. Biddiat's 8 ‘article’ on the same subject in n J hu Commenora--

+

STATUS OF DHIMMIS IN MUSLIM STATES 45

Ahmadullab opened his ‘Nayihkabhed’ with ‘Sri Ramji Sahaye’ ;
as he proceeded, he adopted ‘Atha ake de Stuti? and ‘Ganesh
hi Stat’.

Y’aqib Khan in his ‘Rasabhusan’ invoked blessings not only of
‘Sri Ganesh’, but also of a series of Hindu gods and goddesses—
‘Saraswati’, ‘Sri Radha’, ‘Krishna’, ‘Sri Sankar’.

Ghulam Nabi in his ‘Anangadarpan’ used: dhe nama! of! Sri
Gauesh’.1?? '

‘Azam Khan began his ‘Singordarpan’ sPtar offering obeisance
to the Hindu Saint ‘Ramanuj’.

On the other hand, Hindu writers like Oheudrabhad, Kishan Chand
Ikhlas and others, while writing on Muslim subjects, invoked the
‘name of Allah or began with the usual ‘Bismillahir Rahmdn-ir
Rahim’ in the orthodox Muslim fashion,

Hindu writers adopted the Persian style of composing Mathnavz.
To name a few of such writers, we may mention Kishan Chand .
Ikhlas, Benarasi Das Wali, Siyal Koti Mal, Jasowant Rai Munshi,
Tika Ram and Brindaban Das,

The Hindus were not in the. habit of recording historical events
in the way in which the Muslims did—in short the science of modern
historiography was not so much cultivated in Hindu India. 138) But:

during the Mughal. period Mahesh Thakur wrote his famous ‘Sarva-
deéa Vrttanta’ in Sanskrit (1650 A. D .). No less than a dozen more
histories were compiled by Hindus in Sanskrit and Hindi besides
‘scores written by Hindus in Persian.1** |

On the other hand, Muslims took up Hindu. Rabseets and themes
in their works while they translated eminent: Hindu works into
Persian. Faidi composed a Mathnavi on Nala and Damayanti, of
the Mahabharata. Shaikh Nar Muhammad and Mir ‘Askari Radi
yersified the tale of Madhu Malat#. Murad composed the story of
Kamrup and Kamlaté. Amanat. narrated the stories of Sri
Krsna. Badauny translated Battish Singhasan, Faidi translated
the Bhagabad-Gita and the. Katha- Sarit- Sagara. Naqib Khan,

122 ‘Ganesh’ was the: traditional Hindu God who wrote the. Die Book ai
Brahma, the Creator. 7
123 Mm. Pramathanath ‘Tarkabhuean OL Banures Bindu ‘Daivernity

in his article in the Puja ‘Special Number of “A.B. Patrika.}(Oct.- 1941) Wee
attempted to prove that Hindus had an excallent senseof history, and. that a
they wrote history under the name of ‘Puranas’ * Even: if. ib. were, 4 the ate
‘Puranas’ have been so much mixed up. with ‘myth andr
difficult to find out where myth ends and histor
124 For details see my ‘article’ in: Hindi 3
1937, Also see Sri Ram Sharma’ s Bibliography. PP. 164-65. 4

46 M. L. ROY CHOUDHURY SASTRI

Badatini and others jointly undertook the translation of the Mahg-
bharata and the Ramdéyana, Tajuddin took up the Hitopadeéa,
Ghulam ’Alj Azad introduced the famous Nayika Bheda to the Muslim
literary circles.12> By the time the Mughals were on the throne of
Delhi, the Hindu cults of Rama and Krsna had already entered
into themes of Muslim poetry. Rahim is only an expression of the
tendencies that began from the time of Malik Muhammad Jaisi,
The patronage of the Mughal Emperors, princes and grandees was
of immense value in the cultural fusion of the two peoples,

In the field of higher music which is the eternal language of
man, the Hindu-Muslim fusion was on a plane where the limitations
of society and religion hardly restricted the mutual rapprochment
Mutual reactions of Hindu-Muslim music may form a_ separate’
volume of considerable interest. Bakshu collected one thousand
“Drupad’”’ in the time of Shah J ahin. Mirza Roshan Damir trans-
lated ‘Parijdtaka’, Faqirullah translated ‘Man-Kautihal’ of Man
Singh, Raichand of Ahmadabad collected the principles of Hindu
music under the name of “‘Usul-i-Ghina,”’

On the still higher plane of Sufism, Hindus and Muslims drew:
near to each other through the saints. The Yoga system of the

‘Hindus had already filtered into the Muslim life for centuries !?*
Nazamuddin Hasan described the Hindu method of meditation i in

his famous book ‘Risala-i-Sattariyah’. ‘Rayaelul Basatin is another ,
work in which the ideas of Nirvana (Annihilation) have been des-

eribed, Dara Shukoh in his ‘Majma‘ul-Bahrain tried to show the

similarity of Islam and Hinduism, !** The Sufi cults of the Rosha-
niyas, Tanasukhias, and Ilahias received a good deal of their inspi-
ration from the Hindus.}?7_ We have discussed elsewhere!2* the
reciprocal influence of Islamic mysticism and Hindu Vedantism,

In the domain of literature aud science, the mutual action and
reaction between Islam and Hinduism has been very well described
in the lectures of Sulaiman, Nadviin his “Arab aur Hindustan he
ta’ allugat’’!** Amongst the treatises translated into Persian were

125 See my article “on ‘Sufism’ in, ‘Udbodhan’, 1840 B.S. Caleutta and
Din-i-lahi, pp. 20-23.
126 Prof. Mahfuzul Haq has published an - excellent edition of this work

- in the Bib. Ind. Series, us

127 Sardar Iqbal in his Islamic Sufism has dioussed the background of the

different sects of Sufis..
—.. 1288 Din-i-Mahi, pp. 21-24,

129 Allahabad Hindustani Academy publication in Urdu. Mm. Kiara

A ae Prased Sastri- in. the introduction of his ‘Jatakamaajari’ has also given a

r instances of Indian influence on nearly Muslim culture.

STATUS OF DHIMMIS IN MUSLIM STATES 47

Bhiaskaracirya’s ‘Siddhdnta Siromani’ in four parts, namely
‘Lilavat’, ‘Bijaganita’ ‘Grahaganita and ‘Goladhyaya’ . The
‘Télévati’ was translated by Faidi and the ‘Bijaganita’ (Algebra) by
Abdullah Rashi. Medini Mal also translated the ‘Zélévati’ under
the name of ‘Badéi‘ul Fanin’, ‘Zubdatul Qawanin by Hursukh
Rai gives an account of Hindu Arithmetic... Bahauddin Ayub in
his ‘Khuldsat ul Hisab’ has borrowed the Rule of Nine for checking
the accuracy of multiplication from Hindu treatises. Dr. Tara Chand
in hie learned work, ‘‘Influence of Islam on Indian Culture’ has
mentioned a few more instances of such translations. Baby and
Humayin were believers in astrology, and Humayin may be called
‘an astronomer-king’ as ’Umar Khayyam was known as an ‘astro-
nomer poet’, Akbar had the great astronomical. work ‘Zich-t-
Mirzai’ translated into Sanskrit by Hakim Fathullah Shirazi,
Jahangir’s interest in astrology is proved by his having a horoscope
cast for every one of his children, Calculation of auspicious days—
was a common custom of the Muslim nobility, Hindu astrono-
mical works of this period like Siddhdantatattvaviveka of Kama-
lakara, and Jyotisasiddhéntasdra of Mathuri Nath Sukla bear
definite traces of Arabic influence. Mirza Raja Jai Singh | who»
is so famous for his observatory ‘‘Janter Mantar’’, had séveral
Arabic works on‘ Astronomy translated into Sanskrit, Pandit
‘Jagannath translated Ptolemy’s Almajasti into Sanskrit and Nayan-
sukh Upadhyaya rendered Euclid’s Geometry into Sanskrit from
Arabic, Nasiruddin Tusi’s famous work on circular instruments
was translated into Sanskrit and is known as Katara. The cultiva-
tion of Arabic and Persian became so common amongst the learned ©
scholars that dictionaries of Arabic—Sanskrit and Sanskrit—
Persian had to be written under: the titles of Parsi Jatakam and
Parsi Prakash, and Faidi wrote a grammar for the Persian students
who wanted to learn Sanskrit! 3°, Tohfatul Hind by Mirza

Khan bin Fakhruddin Muhammad gives an excellent. description = ate

of Koka and Samudrikasastra of the Hindus. :
In medicine, the influence of Hindw science was most prominent aa

during the Mughal period of Indian history. 131 A list of Hindu

surgeons and physicians has been given ‘in the Ainsi-Akbart My 4

180 A Ms, of this grammar--Samshrta-Parosika-padaprakasa. sole ae |
the Royal Asiatic. Society's eelmary in, Caleutta. Aimiler Mee (Nos. 911-918)
can be found i in hoda; Bak

‘181 In Sige’ Bharati (A
of Hindu medicine is! the court.
period.

48 M, L. ROY CHOUDHURY SASTRI-

Abul Fadl. In the Bodleian collection, there are numerous
Sanskrit works on medicine in Persian translations. Bhuvah bin
Khawas in his Madan-ush-Shefa-1-Sikandari described the Indian
science of medical aphorism, anatomy and pharmacology. Hindu
Shah (Qasim Farishtah), though commonly known as a historian,
also compiled a work on the Indian systems of medicine under the
name of Dastiar-ul-Atibba’. Tahftul Muminin mentions many
well known Indian medical writers such as Caraka, Suéruta, Bho-
jadeva and Bhagabat. Indian drugs were freely used by the Muslims.
Bookg, on Indian drugs were written by Mulla ‘Ali bin Husain al
Ansari, by Nafe‘ul Siddiqi al Jayasi and by ’Abdul Fateh Namkin.
Hindu works on Veterinary Science translated by Ibn Sayyid ’Abdul

Husain Hashmi, “Abdullah bin Shafi’i (of Gulbarga) and Khawajah

’Abdyllah, Gajrajnamah and Filndmah are two eminent books on the
treatment of elephants, and on women and their diseases respectively,
Muhammad Qili wrote his famous Koka Sdstra during the early
period of Shah Jahan’s reign. But the Hindus were not slow in utili-
zing Persian works. Mahadeva Bhatta compiled Himmat Prakash;
-  Todarananda (Rasaratndkara) was written by Pahar Sayyad,Vaidyaka

by Lullmas, Jlaj-e-Parasi Prakash by Tiki Ram. The medicines
used by the Muslims in their desert homes were not much. efficacious

-. in the climate of Hindustin, -This was specially the case with Turks
and Mongols whose physical constitution was unsuited to desert

remedies. Hence they had to use Indian medicines or such medicines

of Arabia as were acclimatised to the new environment. So in

Mughal India a new Indo-Arabic Pharmacoligy was developed,'*?
Retrospect :-—

“The position of the Dhimmis in Mughal India considered from
different anglés offers a very interesting study.. Unalloyed Arabian
- principles could not be applied in India; precedents had been created
by the Turko-Afghans; the Chagtais had their own traditions;
Hindus had their own heritage ;_ Iranian culture had its own contri-
bution to make; marriage and blood. connection tended to brid ge the
gulf between the conquerors and the conquered. Had not a European
‘power intervened, the Mughals. might. have left a legacy no less

brilliant than that. of the Romans.and the Macedonians in the |

ancient world. The wonderful assimilative tendencies of the Hindu
life and culture were ag “much responsible | as the gclectic Mughal
a of accommodation for this brilliant episode of world- history.

139 Sir P. 0. Ray: ‘in his Haitorg. ae Hindu Chemistry has Riven: some
" peoounts of Muslim medicines adopted by Hindu Chemists.
J.G.IS.. Vol. XID. No. |

Kris of Sultan Muhammad Iskandar ‘Abd-ar-Rahman
Mu’azzam Shah of Malacca (1413-24)

(Collection of H. H. the Maharaja Gaekwad of Baroda)
Obverse .

Reverse

7

4 i

\
1
:
1

1

1
a ‘
me

‘
1 .
* .
se

The Kris of the First Muslim Sultan of Malacca
in the Collection of H. H. the Maharaja
Gaekwad of Baroda

By H. eee

Some time ago the writer of these lines succeeded in acquiring for
the arms collection of Fi: H. the Maharaja Gaekwad of Baroda in
Laksmi Vilas Palace a very rare weapon of great historical interest.
This weapon, a Malay kris of rather clumsy form, but excellent work-
manship, with two lengthy Arabic inscriptions inlaid in silver on both
sides of the wavy blade, [See Plate A] had been bought by its
last proprietor in Singapore from the descendants of the Riau branch
of the Johore dynasty of Malaya who is 1819-24 had ceded Singapore |
to Sir Stamford Raffles. It had been treasured by them as a highly
esteemed heir-loom, ascribed to an ancestor of Mahamid I, the
great Sultan of Malacca, grandfather of Mahmiid II, who was defeated
and ousted by the Portuguese in 1511. Though the title of the
Sultan mentioned on the blade, ‘Abd- ur-Rahman Mu’azzam Shah, ©
is not to be found in the so far published extracts from the Malay
chronicles, there can be no doubt that the piece is genuine. The
very fact that the name of the ruler. had been forgotten and over-
shadowed by a more famous successor, is already one argument
against the possibility. of a fake. The rather clumsy form and the
worn condition of the fine blade are in harmony with the, for a
aa dagger, exceptionally early date at the side ofthe. royal titles,
ie. ALH. 773=A.D. 1371. For this is the time when i in Sumatra
the last remnants of the great Hindu empire of Srivijaya were just
disappearing, and when the East Javanese s sea power of Majapahit
was still at its zenith under Hyam Wuruk.

Who then, had been the Sultan who once rie Siiied this Eris?
Mahmud Il is, of course, the cruel and -excentric Munawwar Shah
(1489-1530). . His grandfather -Mahmiid Lis identical with Muzaffar
Shah (1446-1458), in whose reign Malacca rose from, an insignificant
principality to be the leading power and. the champion of Islam in
Malaya and Sumatra. The. kris of this Muzaffar Shah is still in the
possession of the ‘Sultans of Jahore. Of a more elegant and supple
shape, with only a short inscription. ‘of exactly. the same. ductus, and

with a somewhat richer dragon- head at the broad. end of the blade. | a

near the hilt, the kris of | Muzaffar Shah is so ‘similar to. ‘that -of
Mu'azzam Shah that even the’ et doubt Fegarding. the authenticity

50 H. GOETZ

of the latter must collapse, though it does not help us in identifying
this ancestor of Muzaffar.

However, the circumstances of Muzaffar Shah’s reign offer us
valuable pointers. For Muzaffar Shah had merely been the tool of
a Muslim revolution. Tun Perak, brother of his Malay queen Tun
Kudu, had conquered the empire in his name. Tun Ali, her second
husband and Muzaffar’s maternal uncle, had engineered the coup

état in which both Muzaffar’s brother and predecessor, Ibrahim, and
the Hindu regent, the prince of Pokan, had been killed. For Muza-
flar Shah, alias Qasim, had been a ‘“‘bastard’’ son of Muhammad
Shah (1424-44) from a Muslim girl, daughter of a rich Tamil trader,
related to the Muslim sultans of Pasai in Sumatra. And the success
of the coup d'état had, no doubt, been due to the backing by the
mighty Muslim trade interests in the Straits of Malacca and Singapore.

Prior to this revolution the kingdom of Malacca had been ina
curious situation. According to the Malay and Chinese chronicles
it had been founded after 1360 by one ‘‘Parameévara,’’ a refugee
from the sack and destruction of Kadiri (modern Kediri) the capital of -
Kataha and of Tumasik (Old Singapore) by Gaja Mada, the
great minister of Hyam Wuruk of Majapahit. The little Malacca
principality, with a Hindu-Malay dynasty and aristocracy ruling
over proto-Malay tribes, survived and grew, thanks to Chinese and
Muslim trade interests. and was in 1411 acknowledged by the emperor
of China.* The son and successor of the ‘‘Parameévara’’-his proper
name is no more known—was raja Kechil Besar who. as Muhammad
Iskandar (1413-24), became the first Muslim sultan of Malacca. But
though his next two successors Muhammad Shah (1424-44) and raja
Ibrahim, the ‘Sultan Aba Shahid’ (1444-46), remained faithful to
the Muslim creed, a Hindu reaction seems to have got the upper
hand after Muhammad Iskandar’s death; for Muhammad Shah was
chifly known as Sri Maharaja and raja Ibrahim as Sri Parameévara
Deva Shah. The coup d’état of Tun ‘Ali in 1446, which raised
Muzaffar Shah on the throne, established Islam firmly as the state
religion.

Under these circumstances only Muhammad ‘Iskandar can have
been the possessor of our kris. A. closer investigation yields the

following arguments in favour of this identification: (1) The Qoran

quotation on the reverse of the blade: “1, God, appoint Thee now

* R. C, Mazamdar (Suvarnadvipa, Part 1 p. 347) gives the date as 1405—
Ed. J.@.1. Sx
- tT &. C. Majumdar’s ‘coda of the origin and early history of Malacea
(op. cit, pp. 889-96) i is s somewhat different—Ea, J, G.I.8.
THE KRIS OF THE FIRST MUSLIM SULTAN OF MALACCA 5I

to direct Thy people, to do things in accordance with the command-
ments, before they be visited by serious punishments” tallies only
with the mentality of a strong convert ruler like Muhammad Iskandar,
but not with that of weaklings like his two successors who, although
Muslims, had to submit to a Hindu opposition. (2) The difference
of names can be easily explained. For Muhammad is a personal
name like Ibrahim, Qasim, ‘Abdullah, Hussain, Mahmid, in the
same dynasty, whereas a royal title, corresponding to those of
Muzaffar, Mansir, Riayat, Munawwar Shah is not mentioned. For
Iskandar is merely a pseudo-genealogical surname, connecting
Muhmmad with some of the many illegitimate scions of the half-
mythic world-conqueror Iskandar. The ‘Abd-ar-Rahman Mu’azzam
Shah of our kris thus can well form the missing complement of titles
like A’la-ud-din Riayat Shah to raja Husain (1477-88). (3) There
are three special reasons which render this identification plausible.
Mu’azzam Shah is a translation of Parameévara, the title of Muha-
mmad's father, so that it seems that the convert had tried to bring,
in this disguise, his Hindu claims of legitimacy into the adopted
Muslim society. ‘Abd-ar-Rahman, ‘“‘the (new) servant of the Merciful
(God who had opened his heart to the one true faith)’’ is a favourite
name of converts. That it must have been borne by an important

early member of the dynasty, is made probable by its frequent

reappearance amongst the [8th century rois faineants of the dynasty
(Bendahara line). (4) The decisive argument finally is offered by
the date on the dagger, A. D. 1371. It is an astrological date, ie.
that of the year of birth of Mu’azzam Shah. However, the only
ruler to which this date can refer with any amount of probability,
again, is Muhammad Iskandar. For as Parameévara settled down
in Malacca after 1360 and must have been dead in 1413, the year
of Ma-Huan’s visit, 1371 may well have been the time that the
adventurer had sufficiently settled down to found a family. Muhammad
Iskandar must, then, have been. 42 years old at the time of his
accession and 55 at his death, ‘the best life-years ° for a ruler of a
strong and independent personality. ‘Whereas his successor Muha-~
mmad Shah, Sri Maharaja, is ruled out ‘because he would have been
66 years old at his accession and 76 at his death if we would try ~
to attribute the kris to him. For though these dates are possible,
they are not probable, not to. speak of the other argument, his
concessions to the Hindu party, incompatible with the spirit of our
kris inscription. Thus» the kris - in, the possession of .H. H. the
Maharaja Geakwad of Baroda must have been the personal w weapon—

and a kris is a very personal and sacrosanct weapon in indeneeae ee

eh Ow Oh pet Ad

52 : H. GOETZ

of Muhammad Iskandar ‘Abd-ar-Rahman Mu’azzam Shah (1313-24),
the first Muslim sultan of the later so important empire of Malacca.

Our knowledge about Muhammad Iskander is scanty. The
Chinese traveller Ma-Huan saw him in 1413 ‘wearing a white turban,
a fine green-Aowered robe and leather shows.’ He must have been
a far more impressive ruler than his grandson Muzaffar Shah
under whom the state rose to be a mighty empire. For the latter merely
played a réle comparable to that of raja Sahiiji of Satara in the hands
of the Peshw&s, wheras Muhammad Iskandar had, like Sivaji the Great,
been destined for the adventurous career of founder of an empire.
Although Majapahit was then already on the decline, the position
of the small Malay state on the border of the sphere of influence
of the great Javanese sea-power was as dangerous as that of the small
Maratha raj on the fringe of the overwhelming Mughal Empire.
And the system of alternating piratical raids and retreats into the
mountain, and jungle strongholds was in both cases the same. In spite
of all that the young state might perhaps have succumbed if it had
not found the protection of the mighty Chinese emperor. For Chinese
colonisers had become interested in the exploitation of tin mines
in the hinterland of Malacca, and the Chinese could, of course, expect
better concessions from a Malay kingdom than from a proud Hindu
sea-power: The ‘‘Parameégvara’’ had already sought ‘the’ protection
of China during a personal visit to the imperial court and had been
acknowledged in 1411. Muhammad Iskandar followed his example
in 1419-1421, But it must have been obvious that China was far
away, and that in case of emergency nearer allies were needed,
Muhammad found them in the: sultanate at Pasai, the oldest of
the Muslim states of Sumatra. The princess of Pasai whom he
, married, is said to have been responsible for his conversion. Although
this latter was to bear fruits only under his grandson, it was a
momentous decision. For it steered the new sultanate into the full
current of revolution against the old colonial power in Indonesia,
disguised as the subversion of caste-bound Hinduism by democratic’
Islam; and it was on the crest of this revolution that Malacca rose to
the position of the grand Muslim powes in Malaya and Sumatra.
Comment and Criticism
“Tondi
By K. A. Nilakanta Sastri
In the Journal of Indian’ History, ol, XX, Pt. 3, Dec. 1944,

there is found an editorial critique on my article ‘Tamil land and
the Eastern Colonies’ which appeared in a recent issue of the Journal
of the Greater India Society (XI, 1 Jan. 1944 pp. 26°8). The
critic concludes: ‘It seems therefore that Prof. Sastri has misunder-
stood the passage (cited from the Silappadikdram) and builds up

a series of statements hardly acceptable to serious students of the

Silappadikdram and other Sangam literature’.

Now | do not think that the Silappadikaram in its present form
is a work of the same antiquity as the bulk of the Sangam antho-
logies, but I do not wish to pursue the point here, and for the
sake of argument, | shall concede the opposite assumption of my
critic as the point is in no way material for the purpose of this note.
Its aim is to examine the statement that | have misunderstood and

misinterpreted. the text of the Sil appadikaram.

The translation | offered of the text cited reads :—‘ aging. Le a

together with the East wind that came laden with (the aroma) of
aloe, silks, sandal, spices and camphor put by the residents of
Tondi on board a fleet of tall roomy ships.’ The accuracy of this
translation has not been questioned by my critic and is apparently
accepted by him. His quarre] is with the location ] propose for
Tondi somewhere in the Eastern lands across the Bay of Bengal.

He asserts that if we take note of the whole passage in the Silappadi- |

kdram from which my extract comes, it will be found that there are
references to the south wind blowing through Korkai, the west wind
from Podiyil, and the northern wind through the hill Sirumalai, and
then says : ‘These are all referred to in. the passage and the statement.
follows that the seasons of these. winds are all over; and the next
hot winds have commenced or are in prospect. At will be seen there-
fore that the inhabitants of Tondi; the proud possessors of these articles
of commerce brought by a large number of ships from the East are
not others than the inhabitants of the. port on the eastern sea: board
of ‘the Tamil-country’:’

ie

His: argument. ‘geems to be that as’ the.

winds from the other'main directions are: said to: blow. through places”. :

in the Tamil country and. nearabout Madura, Tondi mentioned in —
connection with the: eastern wind | oust | also be taken to have been.

54 K. A. NILAKANTA SASTRI

a port in the Tamil country and necessarily identified with Tondi
on the Ramnad coast. Even if the facts about the Southern, Western
and Northern winds were as stated by my critic, his conclusion
regarding the Eastern wind and Tondi would not necessarily follow,
and the confident use of the word ‘therefore’ in his argument cited
above is by no means justifiable. But the most cursory examination
of the text of Silappadikaram Canto XIV would show that my critic
has got all his facts wrong. It will be seen that Korkai and Siru-
malai are mentioned in the text in the passage relating to the rainy
season and the Western wind (Il. 70-97); Korkai is mentioned for its
pearls and Sirumalai for a flower growing on it; and these places
have nothing to do with the wind from any direction, Podiyil is
mentioned in |, 115 as the source of the tenral, South-wind. It will also
be noticed that there is no regular correspondence between the winds
and the seasons, some seasons being mentioned without any corres-
ponding winds. It is therefore wrong to say as my critic does, that the
winds from the three other main directions are described as blowing
through the three places mentioned, and that therefore the wind from
the East must also be taken as blowing from or through another
place in South-India.

My critic affirms ‘‘Mr. Sastri is apparently not aware that Tamil!
literature notes a Cdlan Tondi as opposed to a Kuuttuvan Tondi, i.e.
the Tondi of the Célas as opposed to the Tondi of the Ceras.”’

I confess ] have not come accross this Cdlan Tondi in Tamil-:

literature and shall be grateful if he would furnish his references.
lam aware, however, of references to a Tennavan Tondi, the Tondi
of the Pandyas, to which the earliest reference is perhaps that in
the Pandikkévai, a work of the eighth or ninth century A.D. This
doubtless was the Tondi on the Ramnad coast which was a pro-
minent port for several centuries. But there is no evidence that that
port specialised in the articles of commerce mentioned in the pass"
age translated above; while they are all admittedly products of
Eastern lands. ee

Lastly I am criticised for questioning Adiyarkkanallar’s statement
that Tondi belonged to the Célas and - for assigning to him a
date in the [4th century. Regarding the statement that Tondi
belonged to the Colas, | shall be content to invite the
reader’s attention to the. exact words I used in my article in deal-
ing with this statement of the commentator and those who have
followed him. As I have already: ‘stated | am unable to accept
without specific reference my critic’s statement. that Tamil literature
notes a Célan Tondi.. About the date of Adiyarkkunallar 1 will only
TONDI — : 55

say here that he quotes works of the 12th and 13th centuries such
as the Kalingattuparani and the Uttara Ramayana. A date in the
14th century is by no means too late for him. Others have placed
him in the 15th century.

With these observations I shall eee the reader to judge who has
misunderstood Canto XIV of the Silappadikdram. [am behind none
in my respect for the ancient scholarship. of our land whether it be
that of an old commentator like Adiyarkkunall3r or a modern scho-
lar like the late Pandit Swaminatha Aiyer. But our respect for them
should not stand in the way of our scrutinising.,ancient texts as best
we may in the light of increasing knowledge; and if what is urged
in the editorial note under reference is all that could be said against
my suggestion that Tondi might have been the name of a port in
the Eastern colonies, | think I have no reason to withdraw that
suggestion.

| have examined this question at some length because of the
widespread interest of the matter involved and of the difficulty which
scholars who do not read Tamil have in following discussions based on
original Tamil texts.

Notices of Books

THE PEYOTE CULT—By Weston La Barre. Yale University
Publication in Anthropology No. 19, Yale University Press, 1938.
188 pp. and 2 Plates. Price $ 2.50.

The book is based mainly on data collected by the author among
ffteen American Indian tribes such as Kiowa, Comanche, Shawnee,
Delaware Pawnee, Cheyenne, Apache, etc. during the summer of
1935 and 1936. The feld work was carried out with the help of a
Kiowa graduate, Charles Apekum by name, who acted as chief
interpreter of the author. -The author also utilised the data collected
by other scholars on Peyote Cult.

Peyote or Lopo-phora Williamsii is a cactus without spines having
the shape of acarrot. It grows in the Rio Grande Valley and south-
ward and ‘‘contains nine narcotic alkaloids of the isoquiniline series,
some of them strychnine-like in physiological action, the rest mor-
phine-like. In pre-Columbian times the Aztec, Huichol and other
Mexican Indians ate the plant ceremonially either in the dried or
green state. This produces profound sensory and psychic derange-

ments: lasting twenty-four hours, a property which led the natives to
» value and use it religiously.'’ Consumption of peyote produces at

least ten different kinds of physical and mental effects. \t induces
physical. and mental exhilaration. Gross attitudinal behaviour results
from heavy dose of the drug. It creates mental hallucinations among
people with traditions of vision experiences. Auditory and visual
hallucinations are also. produced by it. Peyote increases salivation
and has a diuretic action. It induces skin anaesthesia and is believed

to have an aphrodisiac action.

Peyote has both ritual and non-ritual uses over a wide territory
in the New World. It is used in prophecy and divination, and asa
fetish protector in war and witcheraft. It is also widely used as a
medicine to cure diseases of different varieties such as rheumatism,
blindness, consumption, fever, diabetes, pulmonary diseases, etc.
In a word, among some of the tribes, peyote isa panacea. These
are the non-ritual uses of peyote, .

The ceremonial use of peyote differs widely j in Eferent parts of
its occurrence. In the typical Mexican rite as performed by the
Huichol, eight or twelve pilgrims goona ceremonial trip to collect
peyote which requires about a month. | “The route is full of religious
association, since formerly. the gods went out to.seek peoyte and now
are met with i in the Sheps of mountains, stones and springs......’ The

NOTICES OF BOOKS ees

women at home confess their sins before Grandfather Fire on the

fourth day, and the pilgrims also do the same after passing a. parti-
cular place on their route. The latter henceforth assume the role of
gods and the leaders fast till they reach their destination. The collec-
tion of the cactus buttons is carried out in a manner which is common
in deer hunting. On their return journey, before reaching home. the
party is actually required to hunt deer until they have enough for the
feast. This is followed by a ceremonial bathing of the men and
women. Next the men decorate themselves with brilliant macao
and hawk feathers for the peyote feast which is held in the “‘good-
house of the Sun,” at night. The pilgrims ‘‘sing all night about
Great-grandfather Deer-Tail, the Morning Star and all the other gods
who, long ago, went out to seek hikuli.’’ In the morning they wash
their faces, hands and heads with water from peyote country and
salute the Sun. After this both sexes begin the long dance. The
whole ceremony is brought to an end on the third day when the corn-
roasting rite takes place. These are the principal features of a
peyote feast of Mexico. In the Mescalero and Plains areas the rite
differs to a certain extent. The Mexican rite is tribal in character
whereas in the Plains it is societal, * “while i in Mescalero the ceremony
is a forum for rival shamans.”” ™. :

In the fourth section of the book the author gives a comparative
account of the different elements of the ritual as prevalent among the »
different tribes of the Plains area. This is very helpful in forming
a comprehensive idea of Plains peyotism. The fifth section of the
book deals with the psychological Aspects of Bevora. and the sixth
with its diffusion. o

In India also we have sinner rituals round intoxicating or narcotic
plants. The Soma ritual of: the Vedic Indians may be cited as an
example. In modern Bengal there are rites like Tin Nather Mela in
which Canabis Indica forms the central object. | The Huichol noctu-
rnal songs at peyote feasts which grow more and more vigorous after
midnight find their exact couterparts in’ the songs of Tin Nath sung
on the occasion referred to above-: The use of Canabis Indica (gaAja)
and Indian hemp (Bhang) by the Indian ascetics has the same under-
lying cause as the eating of peyots by American Indian © shamans.” “In
central Ploynesia (e.g. Samoa and Tonga) an infusion of the roots of
Piper methysticum locally called Kava, ‘is widely: used in social
ceremonial and peer elaiow # rites. oles ‘find similar use of rice-
beer among Indian tribes. 3 pales |

We congratulate ‘ the” “gute ‘on the. ‘wealth - of details heh is
collected in the book and the | manner of presentation. Sena as

SS
Mb i

58 * NOTICES OF BOOKS

KAZAK SOCIAL STRUCTURE—By Alfred E. Hudson. Yale.
University Publication in Anthropology No. 20. Yale University
Press, 1938. 109 pp. Price $ 1. 50.

The materials for this book were collected by the author in course
of field work from July to October 1936. He got his information
mainly from two Kazak informants. One of them was a septuagenarian
poet and musician noted for his knowledge of Kazak traditions,
genealogies and epics, and the other was a young man of 23 educated
in Marxist philosophy at the Pedagogical Institute in Alma-ata. The
latter also worked as interpreter. Besides information collected from
these two sources the author has also utilised the works of former
writers like Grodekov, Dingelstedt, Kharuzin, Somoilovitch, Rudenko
and others. In fact the author’s own data have often been thoroughly
overshadowed by quotations from earlier writers.

The Kazaks, often called Cossacks, where until very recent times
a nomadic stock-breeding people who inhabited the steppe territory
lying roughly between the Caspian Sea andthe Altai Mountains.
According to the Russian Census of 1926 they number nearly four
millions. They are traditionally divided into three ‘hordes’ or ordas,
namely, the ‘Great orda in the east, and the Little ordain the west,

with the Middle orda between them”’. Physically the Kazaks belong _
to the Mongoloid stock with a strong admixture of Caucasoid blood.

They speak a Turkic language and have close relation with the
Kirghiz, Turcoman, Kalmyk and Mongols in basic cultural traits.

The book under review is divided into two parts: the first part deals
with Kazak social structure, and the second one gives.an account of
the development of Mongol social institutions of the Kazaks. The
first part is divided into nine sections including the introduction and
summary. In the second section’ of his book the author gives a rapid
survey of the history of the Kazaks from 1000 A. D. upto the es-
tablishment of an autonomous: republic within the Soviet Union.

The Kazaks are first mentioned by Firdusi. In the middle of the
15th century they formed a part of the Usbeg tribal confederacy from
- which they gradually separated themselves and formed a nation in-

the sixteenth century. In the seventeenth century the Kazaks divided
into three ‘hordes’ or ordas occupying three distinct geographical
areas. In the first half of the eighteenth century Russian expansjon
towards the east and south led to clashes with the Kazaks. The
Khans of Middle and Little ordas came under the suzerainty of the
Russians at about i732, but this control. was not effective until the

a middle of the nineteenth. century. when the whole of Turkestan was
conquered. _ Russian domination: over the Kazaks was Sieht ona more

NOTICES. OF BOOKS 59

solid basis in 1868 when the “entire steppe was divided into a
number of administrative units among which the tribal groups were
apportioned arbitrarily. Local officials were elected subject to
Government supervision and Kazak common law was systematized.”’
The author is of opinion that the Kazaks readily abandoned their
old organisations and adopted the new ones. .The last stage in the
development of Kazak history is the establishment of the Kazak.
Republic under the Soviet Union after the Revolution of 1917.
Future history will reveal what contributions the Kazaks made to-
wards the winning of the fateful battle of Stalingrad in World War
No. Il. |
In the third section of the book we get a “aimee of the nature of
Kazak social groups. It is a complicated structure; in one area they
had seventeen subdivisions with 760 named groups. The basis of
Kazak social structure, however, ‘‘consisted of a large number of
separate groups each claiming descent from its founder and bearing
his name. These groups considered themselves as related to but
independent of other groups from which their ancestors had come.”
The smallest social unit was the yj (house) or family consisting ofa
man, his wife or wives and their minor children. As the sons attained
maturity they married and set up kibitkas (houses) near their father’s:
At this stage the father’s kibitka came to be known as ylken yj
(senior or great house) and the son's kibitka as ofav (junior or small
house). An aul or mobile village of the Kazaks consisted of a
number of yj varying from 50 to 1000—the average being about 300.
Connected with the aul is another social group called uru the
members of which are held to be descended from a common ancestor.
This unit regulates marriage and its officers carry on local administra-_
tion and dispense justice. In many cases the aul and the uru are
one and the same body.
Kazak economic life is closely Peet with the. cau seasons
viz. summer, autumn. and winter. About the end of May or beginning
of June the aul leaves. its winter ‘quarters and proceeds to the open
summer pastures by easy stages. The distance covered in course: of.
these journeys cannot be uniform in all the groups, but the average
complete circuit (i. e., going from - and coming. back to the winter
quarters) was not over 200 kilometers | ‘according to Rudenko. - The.
return journey begins in August and | is completed by. the end of
September. when they reach. the. permane | ba
Sheep, goats, cows, horses. and ame
of these nomads. Horses and camels belonge
the sheep and goats were: the pally patie

60 NOTICES OF BOOKS

people annually migrated to the summer pastures with their herds
but the poorer people andthe dependents and servants of the rich
remained in or near the winter quarters. The poorer people often
practised agriculture and therefore remained near the winter site
throughout the year in order to look after their fields. Some of the
dependents and servants of the rich too had to remain in winter
quarters to gather hay and to look after the cultivated plots if their
patrons possessed any. This wasthe germ for a change from
nomadic to sedentary life. The agriculturists were looked down
upon among the Kazaks. ‘“The dwellings for the winter were
permanent structures of wattle, adobe, sod, or, more rarely, of wood
or stone.’ Though in summer the aul lived a scattered life over
the open pastures, in winter a moderate sized group had a village
of several hundred houses. An adequate source of water supply and
a sheltered location are the two most important requisites of a winter
quarter.

There were different concepts about proprietory rights over land.
The winter. quarters were owned individually but the summer
pasture is collectively owned by each uru group. Earlier writers
are almost unanimous on this point but the informants of the author
do not actually. agree with them. But. they have not been able to
give a clear and precise idea about the position of individual families
in respect of summer pastures. The author possibly could have
given some idea of the custom if he had investigated some concrete
cases, =e
*‘Properly speaking reals the youngest son inherited, the Ree
normally being provided for, during the lifetime of the father.’’
Daughters could not inherit anything but were given a dowry at the
_ Ume of marriage which their husbands were required to keep separate.
Widows inherited the property of a childless husband. The senior-
most wife by marriage got the: largest share. Adoption was practised.

Nature of the family and marriage customs are described
in eka fifth section. Polygyny was allowed by law but was not
practised by the ordinary man on economic grounds. One of
the informants of the author however knew a rich man with forty
wives. In a polygynous household the seniormost wife by marriage
“was nominally the mistress of the household. There is difference of
opinion among the writers on Kazak: life. regarding the position of
women. According to some they formed. a kind of property of the
- husband and were treated like. slaves but others speak of a high and
‘ respectable position of women. The author's informants could not
give any decisive” opinion. Marriage. generally” took place between

NOTICES OF BOOKS 61

families of equal social and economic status.. There was no fixed
age for marriage. Marriage by purchase was the rule. According
to the author’s informants a good bride-price consisted of 200 sheep
and 50 horses and a medium one perhaps 40 sheep and 10 horses.
Divorce might be obtained both by the husband andthe wife and
remarriage was permitted. Levirate and sororate were practised by
the Kazaks. Both junior and senior levirate. prevailed.

Class identification was based on blood as well as wealth. The
hereditary aristocracy known as “‘White Bones’? was composed of
Khans and their offspring... The local chiefs and the common people
were called ‘‘Black Bones’’ The two classes intermarry and the
children of such marriages held an intermediate position. Slavery
existed among the Kazaks and the slaves were treated well. This was
abolished through Russian influence in 1859. Slaves were individual
property of their captors or purchasers. They were engaged largely
in domestic service. Female slaves formed part of marriage dow-
ries of the daughters of rich men. In the seventh and eighth sections
of the book the author gives an account of the political groupings
and inter-group relations. The account is not lucid and precise.

The second part of the- book deals with the development of
Mongol social structure. [tis a cursory review of the different socio~
economic institutions of the Mongols such as the nature of the. gens:

and family, rules of marriage and inheritance, military organisa-
tions of the Mongols, etc. These have been drawn from previous
accounts,

The book is a useful addition to our eee of Kazak etna:
graphy, as we do not possess any account worth mentiong about this
interesting nomadic people in English language. But unfortunately
the author has devoted more attention to the accounts of the earlier
writers than to his own data. This is probably due to the fact that
he wanted to describe the life of the Kazak as it was.in the middle of
the 19th century. But to the sociologist the present is equally important
with the past. An account of the changes i in the life of the Kazak
brought about by modern developments side by side with what we
find in the book would have been far more valuable. 3

TG Das i

fpr

62 NOTICES OF BOOKS

A SHORT STUDY OF THE HINDU AND MUSLIM MINDS
AND THEIR REACTION TO POLITICS By A. J. Pritt. 43 pp.
Luzac & Co., London, 1944.

This pamphlet from the pen of an English missionary lady
pretends to analyse minds, but leans towards controversial politics
which covers attempts to justify British domination over India.
She apparently agrees with lots of the communal outbursts of the
Muslim Leaguers pitting them against the nationalist Hindus. The
author might have learnt lots of things while enjoying the hospitality
of India and the Indians, but she has not Jearnt sobriety of judgment
or of diction. Her epilogue, a diatribe against Mahatma Gandhi
“with all the typical Hindu weakness,’’ betrays the rea! character of
this pamphlet,

K.N.

Editorial Notes

One of the results of the last great world- conflagration has been
the happy revival of cultural rapprochement between India and
China, the two great Asiatic Jands knit together by ties of fellow-
ship for nearly a millennium after the Christian era, but practically
parted from each other by adventitious circumstances thereafter.
A welcome sign of the times is the appearance of a new Journal
called Sino-Indian Studies which has just completed the fourth
number of its first volume under the able editorship of Dr. P. C.
Bagchi, one of the few Indian scholars who had the privilege of
studying classical Chinese in a great European university. Issued from
Calcutta four times a year, the Journal aims mainly at the examina-
tion of Chinese materials on Indian history and civilisation. Its
distinctive feature is claimed to be ‘‘a sytematic study and translation
of ancient Indian texts that are lost i in the original but preserved in

ancient Chinese translations.” To judge from the issues already
published we have no doubt that it has a prosperous future before it.
* # * * , # *

At a meeting of the Managing @ormitee of the Greater India
Society held under the presidency of Dr. S. P. Mookerjee recently
in the Calcutta University buildings, it was wnanimously re-
solved that Dr. B. C. Law, the. well-known Buddhist scholar, should
be elected a member. Dr. Law has placed the Society under a
debt of gratitude not only by accepting the office, but also by making
a generous gift of Rs. 1200/- only for meeting the publication
expenses of the Society's Journal in the coming years. ?

x # sth eee» *

We have to acknowledge with sincere thanks the receipt of the
annual donation of Rs. 100/- from Dr, Narendra Nath Law, editor
of the Jndian Historical Quarterly, who is a very old and respected
member of the Managing Committee of the Society. Our thanks
are also due to Mr. G. Basu, F.S.A. A., F.C. [.S.. wHo has kindly

audited at our request the accounts of the Society for the hast three -

years. eT : Le
# 38 a * * e Pcie te BT

We have to mourn during the present year’ the loss of some
eminent Indologists who have left their: mark on different branches
of their subject. Among these special | mention may be made. of
Dr. Theodor Stcherbatsky, Dr. A. Berriedale Keith and Dr. J. Ph,
Vogel. While the present’ ‘number is’ broug .
memory of the last-named scholar, : it is:
notices of the others in a futur

Summary of Contents

Harvard Journal of Asiatic Studies, vol. vii (1942-43)

Robert Schafer, Further Analysis of the Pyu Inscriptions. With
5 plates. [Exhaustive study of the inscriptions under the heads
(1) epigraphy, (2) additional interpretations divided into (a) mor-
phology, and (b) textual analysis, (3) transcription of Aryan words,
(4) phonetics, (5) prefixes, (6)comparison with Karenic, (7) grammar,
(8) text with interlinear transcriptions, (9) vocabulary, (10) résume,
Also contains bibliography and transcripts of Pyu, Pali, Burmese
and Talaing versions of the inscriptions of the Myazedi Pagoda,
Pagan]. .

The same number contains a review of a very valuable work
written in Japanese with English summaries, called A Study of
the Buddhist Cave Temples at Lung-men, Honan by Mizano
Seichi and Nagahiro Toshio. Tokyo 1941.

Ditto, vol. viii (1944-45)

Helen B. Chaplin, Yiinanese images of Avalokitegvara. [‘'The type of |
_ Images under discussion in all probability is derived ultimately |
from sculptures made under the Pala Empire of Bengal, through
"Nepal or Srivijaya and replaced about the 10th century an earlier ©
type of Avalokiteévara image based either on an earlier Indian
or Chinese (T’ang) model. In addition our documents show .
belief in an image of Avalokitegvara as a dynastic talisman alive
and flourishing i in the 12th century...... -They establish the presence
of Tantric Buddhism in Yiinnan in the 12th century and probably
earlier, thus strengthening the supposition of Pala influence’’].
Chou ‘Yi-liang. Tantrism in China. [Introduction. f(1) Tantrism in
early Chinese Buddhism, | (2) Tsan-ming. and his sources. Bio-

graphies of Shan-wu-wei (Subhakarasiziha), Vajrabodhi and
Amoghavatra. Apps. A-T].

Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society of Great Britain and
Ireland, 1944, ‘Parts i jil-iv

Richard Winstedt, ig ndian lnfitence: on the Malay world.

ccoulliatin of the School of Oriental and African Studies, London,
cet sh aut Ole xis part 2 (1944)

H. W. Bailey, A Turkish- Khotanese. Vocabulary. ieearninen: last
ete dines of a Ms. written in cursive Brahmi script containing a

it

SUMMARY OF CONTENTS eae 63

_ vocabulary of 97 Turkish words relating to a ea aa parts of
the body.> Has also indexes of. Turkish and Khotanese words].

E. H. Johnston, Some Sanskrit iaeccptione from. eee

Sino-Endian studies, Jol: i ek i

P.C. Bagchi, The beginnings of Buddhism in China.. [A connected
account of the history of Buddhism in China from 68 to 589 A.D.].

V.V. Gokhale, A Brahmi stone inscription from Tunhuang. [Edition
of an inscription dated Se mene in second half of the
5th century, with plate]. /

P. C, Bagchi. Vajragarbhatantrardjasiitra, ¢ anew work of king Indra-
bodhi—study and translation. [Contains discussion of authorship
and date, analysis of contents and English translation of a
Vajrayana text, now preserved ina 10th century Chinese transla-

tion].
P. C. Bagchi, Chinese coins from Tanjore. [identification of a

- hoard of 20 Chinese copper coins dating from 713-742 down to
1241-53 A.D.]. ma

Ditto, at i, part ii. Mu

P, C. = Bacchi: Sino-Indian telations the: period of the United
Empires (1). [Connected account, of political and cultural relations
between India and China during this period]. .

Chou Ta-fu, Three Buddhist. Barns. [Restored i into Sanskrit from

Chinese translation] .
Chou Ta-fu, Two Buddhist stotras fenioted by Sylvain I Lévi. “[Reprint
of Lévi’s Chinese translation and panakrit restoration is critical

notes].
Chou Ta-fu, and P. C. Back, New. light on ‘Chineee. inscription’ a

‘Bodh-Gaya. [Revised reading and translation of the. inserip-
tions originally edited by Chavannes] ._

Ditto, vol. Ly part iii.

Lo Ch’ ang-P" ei, Indian Influence on the Study of Chinese Bhonckge
N. Aiyaswami Sastri, Harivarman on. Vaisaradya. . [Explanation _ of
doctrine of Buddha’s. Vaigdradya iG fearlessness ’) as laid down by. 4
Horivarman in ie Tattoa-suddhi preserved i in the Chineve transla

66 SUMMARY OF CONTENTS

came to China from Nalanda at the beginning of the 8th century
and came to be ranked with Vajrabodhi and Amoghavaijra as
the three great teachers of Tantric Buddhism in China. The
above article gives analysis of contents of his work with English
translation and appendix].

Ditto, vol. i, part iv,

P. C. Bagchi, Sino-Indian relations—The period of the United |

Empires (ii), [A connected account of relations between India
and China in the 10th, Ilth and 12th centuries, with discussion
of causes of their discontinuance].

Fachow, Comparative Studies in the Mahaparinib bana-sutta and its
Chinese versions. [Comparison of Pali text with corresponding
Chinese texts an 19 selected topics]. To be continued.

indian Culture, Vol. xii, No. |

T. K. Joseph, Christianity in South India. (Mentions on the authority
of three ancient Indian Mss. the date corresponding to February

al,4, 317 A.D. as the time of arrival of some Christians from

Baghdad at Cranganore in Cochin. ]

Journal of U. P. Historical Society, Vol. xvi, part ie

V. Ss. Agrawala, India represented ona silver dish from Lateenene
[Description of a silver dish discovered at the ancient Greek
colony of Lampsacus in Asia Minor and preserved i in Istambul
Museum of Antiquities. It represents,India as a woman seated on

_ a chair supported by elephant-tusks. i |

Journal of Bihar & Orissa Research Society, March-June 1945 .

Mrs. Tuhinika Chatterii, Palm-leaf Mss. in Chinese Turkestan. Tran-
slated from the German of H . Ljiders.

ee

to eet

ES ee

See

Additions to the Society’s Library. om
cknowledges with thanks the receipt of

The Greater India Society a
since the publi-

the following periodicals, books, pamphlets etc.
cation of the last issue of its Journal. .
Periodicals |

Administration Report of the Archaeological Department, Government
of Travancore, 1945. ees

Adyar Library Bulletin (Brahma-vidy@), Vol. ix, part pas

Bharatiya Vidya Patrika, Vol. iii (in progress).

Bulletin of the Baroda State Museum and Picture Gallery, Vol. i,

part I.
China Information Bulletin (in progress).
Indian Historical Quarterly, Vol. xx, No. 4; vol. xxi, No. I.
Journal of the Assam Research Society, Vol. x, Nos. 3-4.
Journal of the Ganganath Jha Research Institute, Vol. ii, Parts 2-3.
Journal of Indian History, Vol: xxiii, Part 3,
Journal of the U. P. Historical Society, Vol. xvii. Parts 1, 2.
Journal of the S1i Venkate$vara Oriental Institute, Vol. v, No. 2; Vol.

vi, No. I.
Quarterly Journal of the My
Sino-Indian Studies, Vol. i, Parts 1-4.

thic Society, Vol. xxxv: Nos. 2, ch

Books, pamphlets cfc. :

Chattopadhyaya, Durgacharan; Hetutattvopadega of Jitari. Calcutta

1939.
Dikshitar, V. R- Ramachandra,
MacLeish, Archibald, Libraries int

ton 1939. Vee ee
Mearns, David C. & Clapp;

States, Washington 1939. oe
Roberts, Martin A., Records in the Copyright Office deposited by the

Vinited States District Courts. covering the period 1790-1870,

Washington 1939. Seay fae ahs sn Rep Rone ease g Sela
Sivaramamutti, C.; Epigraphical Echoes of Kalidasa. Madras 1944. 3
Tampy: Ke. P, Padmanabhan, - Gurudeva Nicholas Roerich.
_ ‘Trivandrum 1943. i akg i eg aN *, :

The Lalita Cult. Madras 1942.
he Contemporary Crisis. Washing-—

Vv. W. The Constitution of the United

TT" printed and published b:
Press, Ltd.) 9
ie

. Byzantium,

THE

JOURNAL |

OF THE ©

GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

Vou. XII (0 Sule dA E52 a No. 2

am

Indology in Russia za

G. ‘N. ROERICH

_ Early inde Rucci cultural selauene remain ee cuded bere an ees }
netrable veil, Our information is exceedingly scanty and for some of |
the periods non-existent. Stray finds | of Buddhist images in. the i
burials of the South Russian’ steppes attest the presence in the pre
Mongol period of nomad tribes, probably of Central. Asian | Turkish
origin, professing Buddhism. We have little information about cultural
contacts prior to the XV-th century. India for a long time remained
a favourite theme of fables and tales, many of which belonged to the

so-called Alexander Cycle, and had. penetrated into Russia through
Iran and the Arab World. Thus in the Russian Primary::
Chronicle (XIth cent. A.D. ) mention is ‘made of the “rakhmans -pious
men’? (PSRL, I, 63 V, 85). Under 1352 A. D. the Novgorod Chronicle ©
(PSRL, IV; 41) speaking about the * ‘black death’’ (plague), adds that ae

“this pestilence came from the Indian countries, ‘from. the City of the .
Widely read in ancient Russia were. the ‘‘Acts: of St. Thomas
in India”, an apocryphal version translated from the Greek... '
known was the “ Legend of the- Kingdom of India” » which |
popular in Russia since the XI-th century and presér
popularity among the Russian peasant . masses - “till the €

The ‘‘Liegend”” gives a description of the tropical nature of In lia. ite.

, inhabitants, fabulous riches and an account of th country’ Ss theocra

ycle of legends

Sun’’.

e ‘popular among the.

iabahived by ‘Christi ) 5
Th aa the x Sree

Old Believers in the XVIE- h

VIVE nan hinted bands» of Ol

70 G. N, ROERICH

t

Eastern Turkestan, Mongolia, Tibet, and even India and Indo-China.’
To the XIUth century belongs the Russian version of the ‘“‘Story of
Alexander’s conquest in India’? (the so-called ‘‘Alexandriya’’).?
Mention should also be made of the ‘“‘Story of Barlaam and Joasaph,
the Indians’’, the famous Christian: Life of Buddha.* In the XV-th
century Russia obtained first-hand information about India and the
Indian peoples. In 1466A.D. Athanasius Nikitin, a merchant from
Tver, joined the embassy sent by Ivan III to Shirwan. Nikitin after
visiting Shirwan, continued his journey and sailed across the Caspian
to Mazandaran, from where he visited Rayy, Kashan and Yazd.
While in Persia, he heard about the profitable Indian trade, and
decided to visit India. He embarked at Ormuz; and sailed for India,
where he first disembarked at Diu and then at Chaul. After spending
some time at Bidar, Nikitin made a tour of the Bahmani dominions.
He returned to Russia through Persia and Trebizond, his journey
having lasted about six years (1466-1472). Nikitin died in Smolensk,
and though his journey was barren of results, his unfinished diary is
still a valuable source of information, and compares favourably, in the
_ opinion of Professor Minayev, with that of Nicolo Conti. In the XVI-th
century Russia’s knowledge. of India was still scanty, and when in
1532 Khwaja Husain, an envoy of Sultan Babur, arrived in Moscow,
the authorities in the Russian capital hesitated to conclude a treaty, —
and suggested a trade agreement. In 1676/7 Muhammad Yisuf
Kasimov, a Russian Tartar, came to Kabul and intended going to
Delhi, but failed to obtain the necessary permit. In 1695, in the reign
of Peter the Great, a Russian merchant Semen Malinkov was deputed
to visit India. He travelled: through Persia and in 1696 disembarked

“at at Surat. Malinkov visited Agra and Delhi, and was received by

Emperor Aurangzeb. On his return journey, he revisited Persia, but
died at Shirwan, without. leaving behind any notes on his journey.
Inspite of the failure of these repeated attempts at establishing direct
trade relations with India, many in Russia must have possessed direct
information about India from Indian traders and artisans, who resided
in Russia in the XVII-th century. Inthe XVIL-th century an Indian

. 1 “Bukhiarminshiye Staroobryadtsi’’, Academy of Sciences of the USSR.
Leningrad, 1930, pp. 36 ff. G. T, Khokhlov, . “Puteshestviye ural’ skikh kaza-
. kov » Belovodskoye ésarstvo"’, Imp. Bussiss: Mecgraphical Society. St. Peters-

es burg, 1903.

ic “2° MLN, Speransky. Hina y staroy russkoy, pis ‘mennosti”, Simaastae ”
in honowr of-S. F. Oldenburg”, Leningrad, 1984, pp. 465 ff.

P. Alfarich : “La Vie. Chrétianne du u Buddha”, 9 As x, PP. 260-286,

yes vies Manichéennes, tt, PR. 216 bia

ae

colony was established in Astrakhan on the Volga estuary, and Indian
traders sailed up the Volga to Yaroslav and Tver.. A local Astrakhan
chronicle* says that the first traders from Armenia, Persia and India
came to Astrakhan about 1615/6 in the reign of the Tsar’ Mikhail
Fedorovich. The same chronicle adds that in 1625 a caravanserai for
Indian traders was built in Astrakhan by | order of the Russian voye-
voda Prince Semen Prozorovsky-. The Indian colony consisted of .
traders, artisans (metal workers ‘and weavers) and occasional sadhus,
who must have come to Astrakhan from Baki, the city’s Fire Temple
being known to Indian sadhus as Bari Jvalamukhi, and which till
recently was a well-known place of pilgrimage.’ In the ‘“Memo-
randum Book’’ of the Secret Chancery we read under 1665 about the
despatch to Astrakhan of a messenger with a letter addressed to the
voyevoda Prince Odoyevsky instructing him to send to Moscow
‘Indian artisans’. In the same year Prince Odoyevsky was commis-_

sioned to depute to India an Astrakhan trader to invite Indian weavers

to come to Moscow.* From legal documents preserved in the Astra-
khan Provincial Archives, and studied by Professor Pal‘mov, it —
appears that some of the Indian traders could speak Russian, and
even read and write (Pal ‘mov, ibid. p. 172). The Astrakhan Archives. .

*

-INDOLOGY IN RUSSIA 7

contain information on the arrivalin Astrakhan of ‘‘Indian religious
men.” Many of | the Indians settled in the region, matried , and
became subjects of the Russian Tsar. George Foster, who undertook |
in 1782-4 an overland journey from Bengal to England, speaks in his’
“Travels” (p.303) about a “‘small society of Hindoos’’ in Astrakhan :
“The Hindoos also enjoy. at Astracan very fair indulgence ; nor could
they in the most celebrated places of worship in India, perform their _
rites with more freedom. ‘They are not stationary residents, nor do
they keep any of their females in this city; but after accumulating a
certain property they return to. India, and are succeeded by other
adventurers. Being a mercantile sect of their nation, and occupied
in a desultory species. of. traffic, they have neglected to preserve any
record of their first settlement, ‘and subsequent progress in this quarter °
of Russia; nor is the fact. ascertained with any accuracy by the ”
natives of Astracan. In the karavansara allotted to them, which jis:

4. N.N. Pal'mov: “Astrakhanskiye Arkhivi”, Zapishi

kovedeniya, U, 4. ‘Leningrad, 1934, pp. 162-182,
5 According to Professor V. V. Bart
I, p. 609, fire-worship 1 rodu

“Indians and India Parsees. The other Jval
6 Pal'mov, ibid. p. 164 ff.

to carry out his Project. One of. his. first. tasks was to establish

&

72 G. N. ROERICH

commodious and detached, they make their ablutions and offer up
their prayers, without attracting even the curiosity of the Christians;
and they do not fail to gratefully contrast so temperate a conduct with
that of Persia, where their religion, persons and prosperity, are equal-
ly exposed to the attacks of bigotry and avarice."”®

In the middle of the eighteenth century the famous Russian
scientist Mikhail Lomonosov was instrumental in organizing the first
Polar expedition to Spitzbergen which had as its object the finding
of a sea passage to India.

The first Russian translation of Sanskrit text was the translation
of the Bhagavad-Gitaé published in 1787 by the eminent Russian
Rosicrucian and publisher N. 1. Novikov. The Russian translation
did not represent a direct translation from the original Sanskrit, but
a Russian rendering of the English translation by Ch. Wilkins
(London, 1783). ms

At the end of the eighteenth century a Russian musician Gerasim
Lebedev came to England on the staff of the Russian Embassy.
After astay in England, he embarked for India; and spent there
twelve years (1785-1797), working as a clerk at Fort William. His

réle in the renaissance of the Bengali theatre is well-known. tee
founded a theatre in Calcutta which performed plays written by _
Lebedev himself in Bengali, as well as plays by European drama-,
tists which Lebedev translated. He applied himself to the study —

of Sanskrit, and on his returnto England, published in ‘1801 his
“Grammar of Pure and Mixed East Indian Dialects with Dialogues’.
On his return to Russia, hé cast the first Devanagari type in St.
Petersburg by command of the Emperor Alexander |. In 1805. he
published in Russian a survey of the religious and philosophical
systems of India, entitled ‘ ‘An. impartial survey of the systems of
Brahmanical East India’. (° Besrasteentacne sozertsaniye sister
vostochnoy Indii NL a aos

The beginning of Sanskrit studies in Russia is closely linked with
the name of Count S.S..Uvarov. In 1810 this enlightened statesman,
while serving on the staff of the Russian Embassy in Paris, drafted
with the assistance of Klaproth a Memorandum on the founding of
an Asiatic Academy in St. Petersburg (: ‘Project d’une Academie
Asiatique’’), the programme of which was to ‘include the teaching

ae : of Sanskrit. When later Count Uvarov became Minister of Public

4 tos and President. of the Imperial Academy of Sciences, he

Mg D. B. Diskalkar, “Hindus i in yA fohanditan, Persia and Russia in 17 73",
_Toural of the Greater India Society, ee iV; » fase, 2 duly, 1987), p. 148 #..

|
|
|
|

ae

Petrov after graduat

| INDOLOGY!IN RUSSIA 8
a chair for the teaching of Sanskrit in St. Petersburg. Great diffi-
culties had to be overcome, for Sanskrit scholars were not to be 3
found in Russia, and young scholars had to be trained to enable
them to occupy the chair of Sanskrit. Count Uvarov selected
Robert Lenz (b. 1808-d. 1836), a student in the University of Yuryev.
Lenz was sent to Germany to study Sanskrit under the famous
Franz Bopp in Berlin. While in Berlin, Lenz pu lished in 1833 the
frst critical edition of Kalidasa’s Vikramorvasi—Urvasia fabula
Calidasi’, with a Latin translation of the text after the Calcutta .
edition of 1830. This was followed in 1834 by ‘“‘Apparatus criticus
ad Urvasiam’’, Berlin. After completing his studies in Berlin,
Lenz went to Oxford and London, -where he met E. Burnouf. He
returned to Russia in 1835 and was appointed adjunct of the
Academy of Sciences, and Professor of Sanskrit and Compara- |
tive Philology. He did not however succeed in establishing a | ihe
school of Russian Indologists, and died in 1836. Hin ed
' The work of Lenz was continued in Kazan and Moscow | by sabes
Professor Pavel Yakovlevich Petrov (d. 1876), the teacher of a
number of Russian philologists and linguists, “and among them...
Professor F. Korsch, F: F. Fortunatov and V. F. Miller. Pavel
ting from the Moscow University in 1832, conti-
nued his studies of Oriental languages. both in - Moscow and St.
Petersburg, where he studied Sanskrit with Lenz. .In 1836 Petrov
published a translation » into Russian ‘of the Sitaharana episode of
the Ramayana (Book Ili); with a glossary and a grammatical ana-
lysis. This work was recommended. by the academician Ch. D.
Fraehn (1732-1861) to. Count $. S. Uvarov. Fraehn suggested ‘ that
the young scholar should be serit abroad to continue his Sanskrit
oly siven a scholarship and sent to

Petrov was accordingly given : .
anskrit with Fr. Bopp.: The latter |

studies.
Berlin to pursue his studies’ of 5
suggested to Petroy to proceed to England, where facilities for the’
study of Sanskrit were greater than. in Berlin, and. where he. could:
avail himself of the large collections of Sanskrit MSS in Ozford-and
London; -Petrov’s trip. to. England ‘did not materialize;- thougl he |
was able to spend some time in Paris and examine the:local coll
tions of Indian MSS. In 1841. Petrov returned to Russia and
appointed to ‘the chair o 1 F: » University, one of as
the oldest seats of Oriental learning in — tween 1852. and

“4 G. N. ROERICH

Rajatarangini, and even study the spoken languages of India, as
well as Avestan. :

In St. Petersburg the teriching of Pe at was continued by
Professor C. Kossowicz, the author of a well-known book on ancient
Persian inscriptions—‘‘Inscriptiones Palaeo-Persicae Achaemenida~
rum’, Petropoli, 1872. In 1846 he published in the periodical
*‘Sovremennik’’ (‘‘The Contemporary’’) a translation into Russian
of the three acts of Krsnamiéra’s Prabodhacandrodaya, which was
followed by a translation of the whole drama published in 1847 in
the “‘Moskovskiy Sbornik’? (Moscow Symposium’”’). In 1849 Pro-
fessor Kossewicz published in the periodical ‘‘Moskvityanin’”’ (The
Moscovite) his translation of the Mrechakatika.

From the very beginning of Sanskrit studies in Russia, the study
of the classical language of ancient India was closely linked with
the study of Buddhism, specially its later phase—the MahdyGna,
All along the Asiatic borders of Russia, the Russian Empire was
in daily contact with powerful and warlike Mongol tribes, pro- —
fessing Buddhism, and the importance of the study of the Mongo!
language and Tibetan was early recognized. Most of the Russian |

Mongolists. were attracted to the study of Buddhism, a tendency

which was strongly prenounced in the valuable scientific work done
by the Russian Orthodox Mission in Peking, which was started
in 1716, and officially recognized by the Treaty of Kyakhta in 1728.

. The first authentic information on Buddhism was obtained by the

- Russian academician Pallas, who in his ‘“‘Sammlungen historischer
_ Nachrichten ueber die Mongolischen Voelkerschaften’’, I. St.
Petersburg, 1801, gave an excellent account of Buddhist cosmogony,
mythology, iconography and hierarchy, as well as the contents of
several Buddhist texts in Mongol and a. Biography of Buddha. A
short life of Buddha was given by the Russian traveller Timkovsky
_ (“Puteshestoiye v Kitay, cherez Mongoliyu v 1820 i 1821 godakh”’.
St. Petersburg, 1824, vol. Il, pp. 409-433), .
The first half of the XIX-th ‘century saw the appearance of a
‘number of eminent scholars in the fields of Indology and Buddhology,
and the allied fields of Sinology - and Tibetology. Rev. Hyazinth
Bichurin, the Father of Russian Sinology, left a number of important
works on the history and geography of China, Tibet, Turkestan
-_ and Mongolia. In this field he was a forerunner of Bushell, Ed.
ie Chavannes and W. W. Rockhill, Among his works on the history
_ and. geography of Central - ‘aie we shall mention his valuable

as nk ‘Tetoriya Tibeta i Khukhunora’’ (“The ‘History of Tibet and Kuku-

nie’ rds 2 volumes, st Petersburg, 1833, containing , translations of |

Sey oe rt
Bue fe ae,

INDOLOGY IN RUSSIA ae

the chapters of the Chinese Dynastic Annals relating to Tibet and
the Tangut (Hsi-Hsia) kingdom, and excerpts from the Pung-chien
kang-mu; his ‘‘Istoriya o narodakh obitavshikh v Sredney Asii’’
(“History of Central Asian tribes’’), 3 volumes, St. Petersburg, 1851,
containing translations of the Chinese Dynastic Annals; his
“Opisaniye Tibeta’’ (“Description of Tibet’’, St. Petersburg, 1828)
and the valuable “‘Opisaniye Jungarii i Vostochnago Turkestana’’
(‘Description of Jungaria and East Turkestan’’. St. Petersburg,
1829). Towards the end of his life Bichurin began the study of
Mongol, and published two articles on Buddhism—‘*‘The Exposition
of Buddhist Religion’’ (Russkiy Vesinik, No.3. St. Petersburg
1841) and ‘‘Buddhist Mythology”’ (Russkiy Vestnik, No. 7,
pp. 136- 160).°

In 1800 Isaac Jacob Schmidt (1779-1847) came to Sarepta.from
Amsterdam to become a member of the local Moravian Mission.
He was placed in charge of the trading activities of his, Mission;
and in his capacity of trade agent made several trips to the camps |
of Kalmuck princes in the steppe country of the ‘lower Volga
(between 1804 and 1[8°%6). Having become a Russian subject
(Yakov Ivanovich Schmidt), he applied himself to the study of |
Mongol and Tibetan. In 1829 he was elected Member of the -
Imperial Russian Academy of Sciences. ‘The Russian Academy
of Sciences was already in possession of a large collection of
Oriental MSS and books. To house this collection the Asiatic
Museum was founded in 1818..° The Tibetan collection of the
Academy of Sciences was considerably enriched by the acquisition |
of the large collection of Tibetan MSS and xylographs..made by
Baron P. L. Schilling von Canstadt in 1830— in Buryat-Mongolia.”*
This collection included a number of MSS indexes of the bKa’ ’gyur
and bsTan-'gyur, prepared by Buryat lamas. under the supervision
of Baron Schilling von Canstadt- In 1845 one = these indexes was |
edited by Schmidt C ‘Index’. des Kandjar’’. . Petersburg, 1845), »
Besides several important works in the: Mickaet field, Schmidt ‘wrote
a number of essays on’ Buddhism. In. ‘the Mémoires. de iT Aaatiees
de Si. Petersburg we “de:
Baddiisaae In 1834 he published an “tile ‘enti

3 Schilling von bansteat
6 G. N, ROERICH

sogenannte dritte Welt der Buddhaisten’”’, and ‘‘Ueber das Miatizicn'
und Pradschnaparamité der Bauddhen’’. (Mémoires de Académie,
vols. Hl and IV. 1815-37), In 1846 he prepared in collaboration
with O. N. Boehtlingk (1815-1904) a Catalogue of Tibetan xylographs
in the collection of the Asiatic Museum of the Academy of Sciences.
Mention must also be made of Schmidt’ s “Tibetan Grammar’ (St.
Petersburg, 1839), and his ‘‘Tibetan-Russian Dictionary’’ (St.
Petersburg, 1843), both. of which were largely based on A. Csoma
de Ko’r "s’ “Tibetan Grammar’ and ‘‘Tibetan-English Dictionary’’™

The great’ Russian Mongolist Osip Mikhyalovich Kowalewsky
belongs to the same period. In 1824 he was sent to Kazan to study
Oriental languages, from where he proceeded in 1830 to Buryat-
Mongolia and Peking, where he continued his studies with Mongol

and Tibetan lamas residing in the Lamaist monasteries of the Chinese
capital. His great “‘Dictionnaire Mongol-russe-fran¢ais’’ in three

volumes (Kazan, 1844-46-49),"* based on the polyglot dictionaries

‘printed in Peking, gives the Sanskrit and Tibetan equivalents of
-many Mongol words and philosophical terms. His “Mongol Chresto-

mathy’ in two volumes (Kazan, 1836-7) upelades a number of
Buddhist | texts accompanied by commentaries.* In 1833 on his

‘yeturn to Russia, Kowalewsky was appointed to the chair of Mongol. :

at the University of Kazan. In 1855 the chair of Mongol was :

“transferred from Kazan to St. Petersburg, and was entrusted to
cs Professor Golstunsky.

‘In 1844 the Asiatic Society of Bengal presented the Russian
E peris with fourteen rare books in Arabic, Sanskrit and Tibetan,

which were later deposited in the Asiatic Museum.

A pupil of Kowalewsky was the ess Russian Buddhologist

Nasiliy Pavlovich Vasilyev (1818-1900). In 1840 Vasilyev was sent to
the Russian Orthodox Mission i in Peking for the study of Chinese and

Tibetan languages, and spent there ten years, till 1850. In Peking he
was able to study Tibetan and Tibetan exegetical literature with

Tibetan and Mongol lamas, and lay the foundation of his extra-
ordinary wide knowledge of Buddhism and Tibetan Buddhist texts.

' Although not a Sanskritist, his publications include a number of works

on Buddhological subjects. ‘Ibis a matter of deep regret that the
eave part of his works in the: field of Tibetology remains un-

» 22 A Grammar of the Tibetan Langhade. Calcutta, 1834, Essay towards
a a Dictionary, Tibetan and: English. Calcutta, 1834,
ABS Sevelenely 8. _petionary: was: jets by. Henri Vetch, Peking,

in 1934. :

oe The same is true of A. Paper “Mong Ohrestomathy”, Kozan, 1834,

INDOLOGY IN RUSSIA

published, being preserved in the Archives of the Oriental Institute of
the Academy of Sciences,’® and among them a “Tibetan-Russian
D rettonar "and a*Tibetan Grammar. Vasilyev’s great work on
Buddhism, Which eamed him world-wide fame, has been translated
into B rench ‘and German (V.P. Vasilyev: ‘“‘Buddizm; ego dogmati,
istoriya literatura”, vols, L-IIl, St. Petersburg, 1857-69; ‘‘Der Buddhis-
mus; seine Dogmen, Geschichte und Literatur’. St: Petersburg, 1860.
A French translation by Comme, Paris, 1865). The third volume of
his ‘ Buddhism” contains his Russian translation of Taranatha’s
rGya-gar Phos” buys, or ‘History of the Buddhist Doctrine in India’.
Important fo, the study of Tibetan literature is Vasilyev’s article
“Die auf dep Buddhismus bezueglichen Werke der Universitaets-
Bibliothek zy Kasan’’ (Mélanges Asiatiques, Il, St. Petersburg, 1855,
pp- 347-386), Ip 1895 Vasilyev published the chapters on Tibet and
India from the large “Universal Geography” or ’Jam-glin rgyas-béad
by the bTsan.p9 Nom-un gan bsTan-’dzin ¢hos-kyi Ni-ma, also known
by the title of Minjul qutuztu (Vasilyev; “‘Geografiya Tibeta’’, St.
Petersburg, 1895), Pay | rapes fe
Err Schmidt’, ‘place in the Academy of Sciences was taken by
the. Indologist ond: Fibetologist. A; vA., Schietner (1817-1879), who
became a Member of the Academy in 1854. A.A, Schiefner pub-
lished a number of essays on Tibetan Grammar. and Lexicography.
He also edited several Tibetan texts and Catalogues of the rapidly
growing Tibetan Collection of the Asiatic Museum of the Academy
of Sciences. Thys in 1859 he edited a vocabulary of Buddhist terms
in Sanskrit, Tibetan and Mongol (‘‘Buddhistiche Triglotte d. h,
Sanskrit-Tibetisch-Mongolisches Woerterverzeichniss’’. St. Peters-
burg), brought back by Schilling von Canstadt, and representing an
abridged edition of the well-known Buddhist polyglot dictionary.
In 1868 he edited the Tibetan text of ‘the rGya-gar éhos’ byun by
chronicle in 1869 (““Taranatha’s “Geschichte des Buddhismus in
Indien’’. St. Petersburg, 1869).7° - Schiefner "was interested in
Buddhist folklore literature, and hie collection of Buddhist fables and

OMT Tubyansky, “Preliminary report on the MS legacy of oP. V
and V. Vs Gorsiy”?, DAN, 1927, p. 64. 8. A. I “Bibliograp

of the. Published sand unpublished works of .
TAN E00ts ap. 789-774, A. 1. Vostrikov,
Tibet”, Zapishy. Institut 4 Postel svedent
16 Schiefner’s German translati
tion by Professor y, p, Vasilyev, whic
¥8 G. N. ROERICH

tales appeared in London (‘Tibetan Tales desiped from Indian
Sources’’, London, 1906).

The growth of the St. Petersburg school of Indology is made
apparent by the compilation of the monumental ‘‘St. Petersburg
Sanskrit Dictionary’? in seven volumes, published by the Academy
of Sciences between 1855 and 1875, and compiled by O. N. Boehtlingk
(1815-1904) and the great Vedic scholar Rudolf Roth. O. N. Boeht-
lingk also published an abridged edition of the same Dictionary
between 1879 and 1889, which was likewise published by the
Academy of Sciences (‘‘Sanskrit Voerterbuch in kuerzerer Fassung’’,
in seven parts. St. Petersburg, 1879-89. This Dictionary was re-
printed by Messrs Markert and Petters, Leipzig, in 1923-25),

To the same period belongs the eminent: Russian Sinologist, the
Archimandrite Palladius Kafarov, who headed the Russian Orthodox
Mission in Peking in 1849-59, and again in 1864, author of the
Chinese-Russian Dictionary in two volumes, invaluable for the study
of Chinese Buddhist texts. The Memoirs of the Russian Orthodox
Mission contain two of his articles on Buddhism—‘“‘Life of Buddha’ .
: (‘‘Zhizneopisaniye Buddi), Trudi clenov Ross. Dukhovnoy Missii, .

I. Peking, 1909, pp. 222 ff. & *“Istoricheskiy ocherk Treen esa
- Buddizma’’, Trudi, Il, pp. 97-99,

Professor C, Kossowicz was succeeded at the University of St.

Petersburg by the. great Russian Indologist and Buddhist scholar

Professor Ivan Pavlovich Minayev (1840-1890). 17 Professor Minayev
began his Sanskrit studies with Professor Kossowinn and at the
_ same time attended the Chinese classes given by Professor V. P.-
- Nasilyev, from whom he inherited a deep interest in Buddhism.
After graduating from the University. of St. Petersburg, Minayev
‘spent six. years abroad, studying under Fr. Bopp, Steinthal, Weber
and Benfey. He resided in Paris and Lendon, and pursued his
studies at the Bibliothéque Nationale and the British Museum. On
his return to Russia, he was appointed to the chair of Sanskrit at
the: University of St. Petersburg in 1869. In the same year he
published his Pratimoksa-sitra. *Thise was followed by his Pali
Grammar (‘‘Ocherk fonetiki i morfologii yazika Pali’, St. Petersburg;
1872). This work was ‘translated into English (‘‘Pali Grammar;
London. 1882) and French cn Grammaire Pali”, Paris. 1874). In

: gh Tear), Professor Minayev made his first j journey to India, and made

eh ¢ di re hort hiogtaphioal Shetek of Prof. Minayer by Miss A. Saniidides®

AE ates re appeared , in) ae Lodge. Hist. paartetie, vol. ae fase. 4: Abe pene PP

‘the Mahavyutpaiti (a second edition of Minayev’s Mahdaoyutpatti was

| Asia. : Thus i in 1878 tee

INDOLOGY IN RUSSIA 4 > 79

a prolonged stay in Ceylon, after which he visited Bihar, ‘the
Nepalese borderland, and Almora in the Himalayas. His impressions
were vividly told in his ‘Sketches ‘of Ceylon and India’ in two
volumes, St. Petersburg, 1878. Besides pursuing his Buddhist studies,
Professor Minayev collected folktales and ‘his collection of popular
tales was subsequently published in a. volume entitled ‘Indian
Tales’’, containing 47 tales and 25. legends collected in Kumaon
(St. Petersburg, 1875). a

In 1880 Prefessor Minayev visited Indie for asecondtime. This
time he travelled throggh Hyderabad, where he visited the cave-
temples of Ajanta and Ellora, and then went on to Golkonda, Lahore
and Delhi. In 1886 he again revisited India, and this time he spent
some time in Darjeeling, and journeyed to Burma and Mandalay.
His planned fourth overland journey to India through Afghanistan did
not take place. The greater part of Professor Minayev’s published
works deals with Buddhism. In his ‘‘Buddhism. Izsledovaniyai ©
materyali (vol. I, fase. | and 2. St. Petersburg, 1887), he’ questioned Le
the authenticity of the Pali Canon, and upheld the antiquity of the |
Northern tradition (this work was translated into French and published oe
in the Annales du Musée Guimet: ‘Recherches sur le Bouddhisme’’.
Annales du Musée Guimet,. Bibliothéque di‘ études, vol. IV. Paris, |
1894). The second fasicule of the work contains Minayev’s edition of

prepared by Professor N. P. Mironov and published in the Bibliotheca
Buddhica, vol. XIII), and the Maifijusri-n dmasangiti. The Sanskrit
texts edited by Professor. Minayev include the Sisyalekha-dharma-
kavya of Candragomin (Zapiski of the Oriental Section of the Imperial
Russian Archaeological Society, IV, 1889, pp- 29- 52), the Suprabhdata-
stofra, a hymn in praise of Buddha (Zapiski, Il, fasc. 3, pp- 236 ff.) I
and the Bodhicaryavatara by Santideva. (Zapiski, IV, 1889, pp. he ie
228; a second edition appeared i in. 1890) edited by Professor S. Et
Oldenburg). Among the Pali texts edited by Professor Minayev; we
find: the Chakesadhatuvamsa (IPTS, 1885," Pp.) 5-46), the Gar
vamsa (JPTS, 1886, pp. 54-80), the ‘Andgatavamsa ( yeahs!
33-53), the Simavivada-vinicchaya-katha- (JPTS, Aged PP: Dy
Kathavatthuppakarana-atthakathé (JPTS. 1889; : pp: 1-1 hrov

out his jqunteys in India and Geren: Pro fessor M:

a Fes FoR
80 G. N. ROERICH

of the countries of the Upper Amu-darya’’. St. Petersburg, and in
1881 gave a commentary on the “Travel beyond the Three Seas’ of
Athanasius Nikitin (‘‘Old India’, St. Petersburg, 1881). Professor
Minayev also published an edition of Marco Polo accompanied by his
commentary (posthumously edited by Professor V. V. Barthold. St.
Petersburg, 1891). Throughout his scientific career Professor Minayev
stressed the importance of the study of contemporary India and of the
living languages of India. Thus he collected materials for a Newari
Dictionary which were later edited by A. Conrady (‘A Sanskrit-
Newari Dictionary’’, from the writings of the late I. P. Minayeff,
prepared for print by Aug. Conrady, ZDMG, vol. 47, pp. 539-573).
His views on the problem were defined in his well-known speech at
the Annual Convocation of the University of St. Petersburg in 1884
(‘‘The study of India in Russian Universities’’). Professor Minayev
died at the early age of 49, leaving many of his works unfinished.
His work and traditions were continued by a band of brilliant pupils.
In 1879 Alexey Putyata, a pupil of Professor Minayev, published a
translation of Kalidasa’s Sakuntala. In the second half of the XIX-th
century and the beginning of the present, Indology made rapid
| progress in Russia, thanks to the labours of a number of er
: scholars; among whom we. find Professor S. F. Oldenburg, Fedor I.
- Stcherbatskoy (often written Stcherbatsky), Baron A.D. von Stach)
Holstein, N. D. Mironov, D. Kudryavsky, V. F. Miller, Fedor I.
Knauer and others. In 1890 the study of Sanskrit was made obligatory 3
for students of the Slavic and Classical Departments of the historical-
- philological faculties of Russian Universities. To meet the: growing
demand for text-books on Sanskrit, Professor V. F. Miller and F. I
| Knauer published a Sanskrit Manual (‘‘Rukovodstvo k izucheniyu
Sanskrita’’, St. Petersburg, 1891), and. Professor D. Kudryavsky a
Sanskrit Reader with Grammar (Yuryev, 1903).28
. To Professor Sergev -Fedorovich Oldenburg (1863- 1934) Heloue
the merit. of being not only an eminent Indologist, but also the
“inspirer and organizer of Oriental research in Russia. A pupil of
Professor Minayev, Silk: Oldenburg was like his teacher attracted to
: Buddhism, and distinguished himself in the fields of Buddhist Art,
archaeology and folklore. © After: completing his studies at the
University. of St. Petersburg, where he attended lectures by Professor

bears 8. ‘Other works. by Prof. ‘Rudegavaky: : “Tasledovaniya » oblasti drewne-—
ps iadiyshith domashnikh obryadov". Yuryev,. 1904 (“Researches i in the domain

eis ancient. Hindu’ domestic. rites”): : '“Hitopadesa- dobroye late ,

ae Sbornit drowne-Indyskilch Tazskazov"?. ae) 1908...

of Idikut-shahet, mentioned

INDOLOGY IN RUSSIA 8x

Minayev and V. P. Vasilyev, Oldenburg was sent. abroad and spent
three years in Germany, France and England. His first work was
devoted to the Indian folklore, in which he analysed the contents of
two Buddhist collections of edifying tales—the Bhadrakalpdvadana
and the Jatakamala (“‘Buddiyskiye Legend?’. 1. Bhadrakalpavadana,
Jatakamala, St. Petersburg, 1896).. The problem of Indian folklore
was the subject of numerous articles published by him in the Zapiski
of the Oriental Section of the Russian’ Archaeological Society, and
other Russian periodicals. He was early attracted to the study of
Buddhist Art and identified some of the scenes on the famous Bharhut
stiipa and many of the sculptures of Barabudur in Java (‘Notes on)
Buddhist Art’, Zametki o budd. iskussive. O nekotorikh skulpturrikh
i zhivopisnikh izobrazheniyakh budd. Jatak. Vostochniye Zametki, +
St. Petersburg, 1895). Professor Oldenburg was also interested in
the great Indian epic—the Mahabhdr ate. His studies in this field
did not form the subject of a large work, except for a short article ©
on the Mahabharata in Buddhist literature (Zapiski, X ({897), p. 195
), which was later printed in the Revue del’ Histoire des Religions.
One of his greatest achievements, which earned the Russian
Academy of ‘Sciences a well-deserved honour, was the founding in |
1897 of the Bibliotheca Buddhica, a series devoted to the publication
of Buddhist texts and monographs on Buddhist ‘subjects. ‘The series
comprises thirty volumes (up-to 1937), and it is hoped that with the
end of the War its publication will be resumed ‘by the Academy.
Perhaps his greatest contribution to Oriental learning was his
archeological exploration of Eastern Turkestin, and his participa-
tion in the organization of Russian scientific exploration of Central
Asia. Russian explorers were the first to. report the existence of
extensive ruined sites on the. northern and southern fringes of the ©
Taklamakan desert... The great. “Russian explorer. of. Central. Asia
N. M.° Przhevalsky in the account. of his Fourth, Central Adiain
Expedition (N. M. Przhevalsky: ‘Ot Kyakhii na_ istoki Zheltoy.
Reki’’, St. Petersburg, 1888, ‘pp. 353 ff., 356, 365 #) described xuined |
sites in the vicinity of. Gharchen-darya. Professor. ee “in, his .

in "Wei ae as he. :

Grzhimaylo_ visited: Turfan
82 G. N. ROERICH

aghiz and the ruined Buddhist temple near Lukchun (‘‘Opisaniye
puteshestviya v Zapadniy Kitay’’, vol. 1. St. Petersburg, 1896).
Further information on the ruined sites of Turfan was obtained
by Capt. V. I. Roborovsky and Lt. P.K.. Kozlov during their ex-
pedition of 1893-95, The explorers discovered the cave-temples
of Toyuk-mazar and the ruins of Yar-khoto (‘‘Trudi ekspeditsii Imp,
Russkago Geograficheskago. Obshchestva,’’ vol. 1. St. Petersburg,
1899). Professor K. |. Bogdanovich, a geologist attached to the
Tibetan Expedition of General M. V. Pevtsov in 1889-90, also
mentions ruined sites in the Tarim Basin (Trudi Tibetskoy Ekspeditsii,
ol. ‘Il, St. Petersburg, 1892, pp. 151-160). In 1898 the Russian
Academy of Sciences sent out an archaeological expedition headed
by Dr. Dmitri A. Klementz to Turfan. The expedition investigated
the ruins of Yar-khoto (W. of Turfan City), the ruins of some ancient
temples situated East of the modern town of Turfan, the ruined
sites of Idikut-shahri, Astana, Sengim-Aghiz, Murtuk, Toyuk-mazar.

‘Surkhab and the ruins of a Buddhist vihdra south of Lukchun. The

scientific results of the expedition were published in a monograph

entitled “‘Turfén und seine Alterthuemer. Nachrichten ueber die
: von der Kaiserlichen Akademie der Wissenschaften zu St. Petersburg

im Jahre 1898 ausgeruestete Expedition nach Turfan.”’ Fasc. I,

; St. Petersburg, 1899. Professor Oldenburg from the very beginning |

of the archaeological exploration’ became deeply interested in the

antiquities and the MSS remains from Eastern Turkestan. In 1893
the Russian Academy of Sciences received from the Russian Consul-

General in Kashghar N. F. Petrovsky a collection of MSS discovered
in the sand-buried ruins south of the Taklamakan desert. J Rroe
fessor Oldenburg published a preliminary notice on a Prakrit MS of
the Dharmapada, belonging to the Petrovsky Collection (“ Predvari-
tel’ naya ies o buddiyskoy rukopisi, napisannoy pis’ menami

: Rharosthi,”’ St. Petersburg, 1897). His large work on the subject,
though, at ‘for print, has not been published. Collections of

antiquities and MSS from Eastern Turkestan have also been received
from Monsieur N. N. Krotkoy, the Russian Consul-General in
Urumchi, the provincial capital. The general interest aroused by

the see oeieel discoveries of - Eastern Turkestan led to the’ for-
© mation’ of - an .. ‘‘Association Internationale pour l’Exploration de
 PAsie Centrale*et de U'Extréme Orient’, proposed. at the XIl-th
ge International ‘Congress. of Orientalists held in Rome.in 1899. The
Russian Section of the. Association was ‘established in 1903 under
eit the chairmanship of Professor. V- V. Radlov, the eminent’ Turkolo- |
of: gist. ‘ ‘Professor Oldenburg, as: » Vice-chairman of abe Section, contri-

sietieee
INDOLOGY IN RUSSIA 83

buted greatly to its scientific activities and the despatch of scientific fh,
missions to Central Asia and the Far East. In 1900 he published ' bi,
a Notice on the organization of an. archaeological expedition to
Eastern Turkestan (Zapiski' of the Oriental Section of the Russian
Archaeological Society, vol. XIII (1900), p. ix f). Oldenburg also !
participated in the organization of the expeditions of P. K. Kozloy ee
to Eastern Tibet in 1900-1, and Southern Mongolia and Amdo in

1906-8, during which. the eminent Russian explorer made his re-

markable discovery of the Tangut ruined city of Khara-khoto in

the Etsin-gol basin. The excavation of this ruined site yielded a large

collection of Tangut (Hsi-hsia) MSS, most of which contained

Buddhist texts, written in the Hsi-hsia script, adopted since 1037

A.D. This unique discovery proved the existence of a literary

Tangut language, akin to the dialects of the Tibetan North-East,

into which most of the Buddhist Canon had been translated between.
the XIl-th and XIV-th centuries A.D. The large collection of Buddhist

paintings and drawings brought back by P. K. Kozlov from Khara-

khoto, were studied by Professor Oldenburg in a special monogtaph, es
in which he stressed the importance of the finds for the history of —
Tibetan Art (“Matériaux pour Viconographie bouddhique . de Khdéra- —
khoto’’, Memoirs of the Ethnographic Section of the Russian Museum

of the Emperor Alexander Ill, I, Petrograd, 1914). ve

_ Professor Oldenburg was also. instrumental in sending. two Buryat-

Mongol scholars mGon-po skyabs Tsibikov and Badzar.. Baradiyn to

Central and North-Eastern Tibet (Amdo). Professor Tsibikov’s

expedition was organized by the Russian Geographical Society, and

lasted three years (1899-1902), during which Tsibikoy visited Central

Tibet, and resided for some time in Lha-sa.. The Preliminary Report

of his expedition appeared in the Journal of the Russian, Geographical

Society (vol. XXXI, fasc. 3 ( 1903), pp. 187-227 ; an English translation

of the above appeared. in | the Smithsonian. Report for, 1903, ‘pp.

727-746. Washington, 1904). The Detailed Report A; Professor

Tsibikov’s j journey was published ina large volume by the Russian

Geographical Society in 1919: (“Buddist Palomnik u-soyatin’ Tibeta’’.
Petrograd, 1919), and contains by” far the best. description, a
temples and monastic establishments of Lha-sa, Ta ‘lh ang
bSam-yas. Badzar Baradiyn’s journey in. 1905- Zi on behalf. ‘of 1
Russian: Reape of atte International Association fo:

fAmdok: “Where he spent ‘some’ ‘thn in
brat bKra-Sis "khyil: (founded 1
RN nn IT BES EO Ne A RES

— ee eS

84 | GN. ROERICH ©

Section of the Association for the sueo of Central and Eastern Asia

(No. 8, 1908, pp. 17- 21). Baradiyn’s Report was published in the

Journal of the Russian Geographical Society (vol. XLIV, fasc. 4, 1908,
pp. 183-232. See also Badzar Baradiyn: **Statuya Maitreyi ov Zolotom
khrame v Lavrane’’, Bibl. Buddhica, vol. XXI, 1924). :

In 1906-07 Professor Oldenburg participated i in the organization of
the archaeological expedition of N.M. and M.M._Berezovsky, who
excavated and photographed a number of ruined sites in the district
of Kucha.

In 1909-10 Professor Oldeabury headed a Russian Archaeological
Expedition to Eastern Turkestan, during which he investigated the
ruined sites in the neighbourhood of Shikchin in the Karashahr
district, the Turfan oasis (Yar-khoto, Old Turfan, Idikut-shahri,
Astana, Sengim-aghiz, Bezeklik, Chikan-ko’l, Toyuk-mazar, and
Sirkip), and Kucha (Subashi, Simsim, Kizil-kargha, Kumitura and other
localities). Oldenburg himself called this expedition—an ““archaeo-
logical reconnaissance’. Before leaving for Eastern Turkestan,
Professor Oldenburg consulted Professor Gruenwedel, and determined
with him the areas in which the Russian expedition was to work in
order not to interfere with the work of the German expedition.
However when Professor Oldenburg’s expedition arrived inthe field,
the Russian scholars discovered that the sites allotted to the Russian
expedition had been already excavated by the German expedition
under von Le Coq.'® The results of the Russian expedition were
published in a large volume entitled “‘Russkaya Turkestanskaya

_ Ekspeditsiya 1909-1910 goda’ (St. Petersburg, 1914). In 1913-14

Professor Oldenburg led a second archaeological expedition to Eastern

Turkestan. ~The task of this second expedition was to explore and
make a complete photographic survey of the famous cave-temples of
Tun-huang in Western Kansu. The results of this expedition are
deposited in the Hermitage ‘Museum in Leningrad, but the Scientific
Report has not been published .?° _

- Professor Oldenburg also participated i in the building of the Buddhist
Temple in St. Petersburg, which was solemnly consecrated in 1913.

This temple, built in Tibetan style. was began in 1910. The building
_ was sbersised by a Committee consisting of Professor V.V. Radlov,

“49. FL. Stcherbatsky, “g. P: Oldenburg hak indianist”, Zapiski Institute
Vostokovdeniy, IV 0985), P- 26... ‘This: volume geri ice to BES memory of

Krachkovsky, VN. Alekseev eee A. I. Vostrikoy.
a: ‘8. F. Oldenburg, i ale caves fe ‘the Thousand “Buddhas” ' (in Rain),
ostok”, 1 bea PP. AI, pte) Sead de! ode malar

INDOLOGY IN RUSSIA Bs

chairman, mkhan-po ehh-nia Nag-dban-Do-rie. Professor V. L.
Kotwicz, Professor S.. F. Oldenburg, Professor N. C. Roerich,
Professor A. D. Rudnev, Professor F. I. Stcherbatsky, Miss Alexander
Schneider and the architect Baranovsky. At the suggestion of
Professor Stcherbatsky the Committee proposed to purchase in India
a complete Indian temple and to rebuild it in St. Petersburg, but the
first World-War put an end to these plans.

In 1916 Professor Oldenburg was appointed Director = the Asiatic
Museum of the Russian Academy of Sciences. In 1930, after the
transfer of the Museurn’s collections to the newly created Oriental
Institute of the new institution, and until his death in 1934 he acted as
planner and organizer of Oriental Research in Soviet Russia. His
manifold official duties prevented him from publishing some of his
larger works. Most of his articles written between 1917 and 1934
represent reports on the organization of scientific explorations and
Oriental research in general, a work with which he had selflessly
identified himself. To this period belongs his article on the Gandhara
sculptures in the Hermitage Museum which appeared inthe Zapiski
of the College of Orientalists, vol. V (1930), pp. 145-186.

The death of Professor Fedor Ippolitovich Stcherbatsky (b. 1866)
during the fateful winter of 1941 of the Leningrad seige, was a cruel
loss to'science. After graduating from the University of St. Peters-
burg, where he studied Sanskrit and Pali with Professor Minayev and
Oldenburg, Germanic under Professor F. A. Braun and Slavonic under
Jagi¢, Stcherbatsky proceeded to Vienna in 1888, and studied Sanskrit
Poetics (alamka@ra) with Buehler. These studies resulted in two
monographs, one in German—‘‘Ueber das Haihayendracarita’’, and
oné in Russian on the Indian Theory of Poetry—"‘Teoriya poezii v
Indii’”” (St. Petersburg, 1899). In 1902, after attending the International
Congress of Orientalists in Rome, Stcherbatsky. went to Bonn, and.
read Indian Philosophy with Jacobi. From that date his interest
centres on Indian Philosophy, and particularly on Buddhism. In 1903
Stcherbatsky published his first important work on Buddhist Logic and |
Epistemology—‘‘Theory of Knowlege and Logic inthe Doctrine: of
later Buddhists’’ (‘‘Teoriya poznaniya i ‘logika po ucheniyu pozdney-
shikh buddistov’’, Part 1, St. Petersburg, 1903;. Part Il, St. Petersburg; |
1909). This fundarsenval work which contained a Russian translation ;
of Dharmakirti’s Nydyabindu and its Commentary by Dharmottara,'as
well as an. exposition of the. stand of Buddhist : Logic, . appeared also -
in German (* ‘Erkenntnistheorie und Logik 1 ach der Lehre. der spaeicren

Buddhisten’’, Munich, 1924) and in French in the Annales du: Muéee

Guimet (“La Theorie de te. Connaissance et. la Logique ches ‘Jeg

86 G. N. ROERICH

Bouddhistes Tardifs’’, Paris, 1926), In 1910-11 Professor Stcherbatsky
made a long sojourn in India, studying Sanskrit with Indian pandits in
Poona, as well as visiting Calcutta and Darjeeling, where he met the
thirteenth Dalai Lama, then in exile. In 1918 Professor Stcherbatsky
was elected Member of the Russian Academy of Sciences. His next
important work was his monograph ‘The Central Conception of
Buddhism and the meaning of the word DHARMA” (Royal Asiatic
Society Prize Publication Fund, vol. VI. London, 1923), in which he
expounded the Hinay@nistic stage of Buddhism. This was followed
by his “The Conception of Buddhist Niroana’’ (Leningrad, 1927),
invaluable for the study of Buddhist Monism, represented by. the
Madhyamika school. In 1935 appeared his monumental “Buddhist
Logic”’ in two volumes (Bibliotheca Buddhica, vol. XXV]. Leningrad,
1930, 1932), which represents an English version of his earlier work on
the subject, completely rewritten and greatly enlarged. This work
will for a long time remain the foundation of further studies in this
difficult, but essential branch of Buddhist philosophic literature.
Besides these works, Professor Stcherbatsky published and edited a
considerable number of Tibetan and Sanskrit texts in the Bibliotheca
Buddhica, some in collaboration with foreign scholars and his own
pupils. The Bibliotheca Buddhica includes his edition of the Sanskrit
text and Tibetan translation of Dharmakirti’s Nya@yabindu with the
Commentary by Dharmottara (Bibl. Buddhica, vols. Vil and VIII), the
Sanskrit text of the Nydyabindutikadtippani, a commentary on
Dharmottara’s Nyayabindutika (Bibl; Buddhica, vol. XI, fasc. 1), the
Tibetan text of Dharmakirti’s Samtanantarasiddhi with Vinitadeva’s
Commentary, and a commentary by the well-known Mongol scholar
Nag-dban bsTan-dar Lha-rams-pa of Alashan (b.. 1758) (Bibl. Buddhica,
vol. XIX, fase. [-I]). Dharmakirti’s: Samtdnantarasiddhi and Vinita-
deva’s Commentary were: translated by Professor Stcherbatsky into
Russian, and published in the series ‘“Pamyainiki Indiyskoy Filosofii”’
(‘Monuments of Indian Philosophy’’), edited by the Russian Academy
of Sciences (° ‘Obosnovaniye chuzhoy odushevlennosti’’, St. Peters-
burg, 1922). =

Professor Stcherbatsky also eallabiorated | in. the large international
undertaking concerned with the editing of Vasubandhu’s Abhidharma-
koga. The edition of the Abhidharma- koga was to be undertaken by
a group of scholars’ who met in Paris'in the winter of 1912, The
edition of the Tibetan text of the’ Abhidharma-koga, the karikGs and
the bhdsya, was to be undertaken by Professor Stcherbatsky and
Professor L.. dela’ Vallée Poussin. (the first kogasthana and the greater
part of the second of the. karihas and 1 bhaeya. shave heqn: edited by
INDOLOGY IN RUSSIA 87
Professor Stcherbatsky in the Bibi. Buddhica, vol. XX, fase. 1-ll).

An edition of YaSomitra’s vyakhyaG was to be prepared by Professor
5. Lévi (the first kogasthdna was published’ by Professor Stcherbatsky
and Léviin the Bibl. Buddhica, vol. XX}, fasc. I; fasc. Il ed. by
Professor. U. Wogihara and Professor Stcherbatsky in 1931). An
edition of the Uighur version of the Koga, discovered by Sir Aurel
Stein, was planned by Sir E. Denison Ross. The Japanese scholar
Professor U. Wogihara was to give an edition of .the Chinese transla-
tions of Paramartha and Hadian-tsang. Since then a French translation
of the Abhidharma-koga was published by Professor L. dela Vallée
Poussin (Paris, 1923-31, six volumes), and a systematic exposition of
the philosophy of the Koga by Professor O. O. Rosenberg (‘Problem
Buddiyskoy Filosofii?’, Petrograd, 1918). Russian and English
translations of the text of the Abhidharma-koga by Professor Stcher-
batsky and Rosenberg were also foreshadowed. :

In 1929 Professor Stcherbatsky published in collaboration with his
pupil E. E. Obermiller the Sanskrit and Tibetan texts of the Abhisama-
ydlamkdra-Prajfidparamita-updega-sastra (Bibl. Buddhica, XXII),
and thus inaugurated the systematic study of the vast Prajaa-
pdramita literature undertaken by the Buddhist Institute of the.
Academy of Sciences, a work continued for some time by By Es
Obermiller. is

Professor Stcherbatsky’s last ae which ihewise appeared in the |
Bibliotheca Buddhica (vol. XXX, 1936), was a translation of Asanga’s
MadhyGnta-vibhanga-sastra, a work belonging to the third and last
stage of Buddhist philosophic thought.

Mention must also be made of several articles by Professor
Stcherbatsky, such as his ‘‘Contribution 4 l’histoire du materialisme
aux Indes’ (‘‘Vost. Zapiski’’; vol. I, Leningrad, 1927, pp. 1-9),
“Ueber die Nyadyakanika des Vacaspatimigra und die indische Lehre
vom kategorischen Imperatio”’ (Beitraege zur Literaturwissenschaft
und Geistesgeschichte Indiens’’, Festgabe Hermann. Jacobi, Bonn.
1926, pp. 369-380), ‘‘The ‘Dharmas’ of the Buddhists and the ‘Gunas’
of the Samkhyas’’ (The. Indian Historical Quarterly, vol. X,
fasc. 4 (1934, pp. 737- 760), and “The Doctrine of the Buddha”
(BSOS. vol. Vi, 4, pp. 867- 896). “Professor Stcherbatsky also

published a translation of the. Dagakumaracarita by Dangia i in 1 the
Journal ‘‘Vostok”’ (Petersburg, 1923), eae

_ Professor Steherbatsky. was: deeply janelle: in the varanibl
discoveries of Sanskrit _ NV in Tibetan ‘Monasteries by Rahula -
Sankrtyayana i in. 1934. and 1936,? ak ‘and hoped to arrange: the publica

21 RB. Sankrtyayana, “Sanskrit t Paleo! USS i in Tibet, J BORS,. XI, L

88 , G. N. ROERICH

tion of the discovered MSS in the Bibliotheca Buddhica. Let us hope
that this work will be carried out, now that Rahula Sankrtyayana
has been invited to join ‘the staff of the Oriental Institute of the
Academy of Sciences. Before his death in the winter of 1941,
Professor Stcherbatsky was planning a translation of Dharmakitti’s
Pramdnavartika. .

In 1928 the Academy of Sciences inaugurated a Budddist Institute
and Professor Stcherbatsky was appointed to direct the scientific
work of the new institution, assisted by E.E. Obermiller. In 1930
the Buddhist Institute was affiliated with the Oriental Institute of
the Academy of Sciences.

Till his death in 1941 Professor Stcherbatsky continued to occupy
the Sanskrit chair at the University of Leningrad.

In the person of Baron A. A. von Stael-Holstein, who died in
Peking in 1937, Russian Indology lost another of its distinguished
scholars. Born in 187] at Testama, near Pernau in Esthonia, he
studied Sanskrit and Indian literature at the Universities of Yuryev
(1894-6) and Berlin. His doctoral thesis was devoted to the second
part of the Karmapradipa. After a brief period of study at Oxford
and Bonn, he entered the Russian Foreign Service, and was
appointed secretary of the Imperial Russian Consulate-General in
Bombay (1903-4). He related his researches in India in a. paper
entitled ‘‘Puteviya vpechatleniya iz Indii’’ es to the Journal
of the Russian Geographical Society (vol. 0 (1905), pp. 557-83).
After his return to Russia, he was eet Assistant Professor |
of Sanskrit in the University of St. Petersburg, and participated in
the work of the Russian Section of the International Association for
Exploration of Central and Eastern Asia. He journeyed to Central
Asia, and like many of his colleagues devoted much of his time to
the study of Buddhism and Central Asian problems. Thus he
published several articles. dealing with the Tokharian problem
(“Tocharisch und die Sprache i Izv. Imp. Akademii Nauk, 1908,
pp. 1367-72; ‘‘Tocharisch/und die Sparche. T° Izv., Imp. Ak. Nauk,
1909, pp, 479-84 ; : here a Kusana race?”’, JRAS, 1914,
pp. 79-88 ; ‘‘Kopano “ ehshih”, SPAW, XXI (1914), pp, 643-
650), in which he advatgeed the opinion that the name Tokharian
should be applied to the so- -called ‘ ‘Language I1’’ of the Central
_ Asian MSS, which had been - spoken. and written in the region
of Khotan in Eastern Turkestan. | Now a Tibetologist zaaid Chinese

po. ‘a1 43; "Second: Search of. Sanskrit Patn-Ley uss in » Tee, 2 ‘JBORS,
INDOLOGY IN RUSSIA 89
scholar as well, he dedicated himself to the publication and recon-
struction of Sanskrit texts with the help of extant Tibetan and Chinese
translations of Indian originals. In 1913 he published a reconstruction
of the Sanskrit text of the Gandistotragatha of Aévaghosa with the
help of the Chinese and Tibetan versions (Bibl.. Buddhica, vol. XV,

1913). In 1916 he was sent on a scientific mission on behalf of the

Russian Academy of Sciences to Japan. In 1917 he settled in Peking, —

and in 1922 was appointed Professor of Sanskrit at the National
University of Peking. During his residence in China, Baron von
Stael-Holstein was able to complete his edition of the Sanskrit MSS
of the Ka@gyapaparivarta, a Mahayana siitra of the Ratnakiita class,
discovered in the vicinity of Khotan (‘‘The K aéyapaparivarta, edited in
the original Sanskrit, in Tibetan and in Chinese’’, Shanghai, 1926).

1913 this was followed by an edition of Sthiramati’s Commentary on
the Ka@gyapaparivarta in Tibetan and Chinese (‘‘A Commentary to the
K @yapaparivarta’’Peking, 1933).?" In 1927 he was appointed Director
of the newly formed ‘‘Harvard Institute of Sino-Indian Research, a
position which he held till his untimely death in.1937.. The frst
volume of the Series published by the Institute (‘‘Harvard Sino-Indian
Series’*} contains Professor Fr. Weller’s ‘‘Index to the Tibetan
translation of the Kasyapaparivarta’ (Harvard-Yenching Institute,

Cambridge, Mass.. 1933). in 1929 Baron von Stael-Holstein was —

appointed Professor of Central Asian Philology at Harvard University.
While in Peking, Baron von Stael-Holstein was assisted by the
Russian Mongolist Professor B. I. Pankratov. -

In connection with Russian researches in the field of Northern
Buddhism, mention must be made of the work of the Russian Mon-
golists Professor A. M. Pozdneev and Professor B. Y. Viadimirtsov.
Professor Pozdneev (1851-1920) was the author of a well-known work
on the Buddhist Monasteries and Clergy in Mongolia (‘Ocherki bita

buddhiyskikh monastirey i buddiyskago dukhovenstva.”’ St. Peters-_

burg, 1887),2° which still remains the only exhaustive work on the
subject. In 1880 he published a "monograph on the Grand Lamas
of Urga (“Urginskiye Khuatakhit”’, St. Petersburg). Mongol Buddhist
texts are included in his “Mongol Reader’: (St. Petersburg, 1900);

and his -“‘Kalmuck Reader’’ (Petrograd, 1915). . Professor Pozdneev

also published in 1897 the Account of a a journey: to Tibet undertaken

22 For a fuller bibliography, gee “Monumenta Serica, vol. ll 988), 2

fase. I, pp. 286-289. we ae
28 A chapter from Pozdneev' s ees in the | ‘Buddhist Monasterie

Mongolia, was translated into German: by WwW. “AG ‘Uukrig: $ ‘Dhyana und Sam
im mongolischen Lamaismus’” enuiver, se pote of

Sora

90 G. N. ROERICH

by Baza Baz’i, a monk of the Dundu-khurul of the Baza Do”rbo’d
principality of the Astrakhan Kalmucks, in 1891-94 (‘‘Skazaniye
okhozhdenii vo Tibetskuyu stranu Malo-Do”’rbo’tskago Baza-bakshi’’,
St. Petersburg, 1897). Professor Pozdneev also edited the Mongol
text of the “Journey to Tibet’? by the Buryat lama blo-bzan Mi-skyod,
which was to be published by the Academy of Sciences. In 1892-3
Professor Pozdneev undertook an extensive journey throughout Outer
and Inner Mongolia, and his “Diaries”? published by the Russian
Geographical Society under the title of “Mongolia and the Mongols”
(“‘Mongoliya i Mongoli’’, vol. 1, 1896 ; vol. Il, 1898) contain much
valuable information on Buddhist monasteries and monuments in
Mongolia and the Sino-Mongolian borderland.

The great Russian Mongolist Professor B. Y. Viadimirtsov (1884.
1931), historian and philologist, devoted many of his works to
Buddhism. He was particularly interested in Buddhist folklore and
literature. In 1921 he published the Mongol text and a Russian tran-
slation with an exhaustive commentary of a number of tales from the
Paficatantra (‘‘Mongol' skiy Sbornik rasskazov iz Paficatantra’’, Petro-
grad). This was followed in 1923 by a translation of the Siddhi-kiir, a
Mongol version of the Vetdlapaficaviméatika (*Volshebniy Mert-
vets’, St. Petersburg-Moscow, 1923). Professor Vladimirtsov edited
in 1929 the Mongol text of the Bodhicaryavatara of Sdntideva;
translated into ‘Mongol by Kun-mkhyen Chos-kyi ‘od-zer (Bibl.
Buddhica, vol. XXVIII). To Tibetan Buddhism were devoted
his articles ‘‘Buddhism v Tibete i Mongolii’’ (St. Petersburg, 1919),
**Mila-ras-pa's Lyric poetry’ (‘‘lz liriki Milaraibi’’. “Vostok”,
IL, pp. 45-47), ‘A magic tale” (**Rasskaz o valshebstve’’. ‘‘Vosiok’’,
Il, pp. 55-57). the ‘“‘Tibetan-Mongol Dictionary Li-8?i gur-khanh
(Comptes rendus de l’Académie des Sciences, Leningrad, 1926, pp.
27-30), and “The Mongol bstan-’gyur’’ (ibid, pp. 31-34). Important
for the study of the Indo-European languages discovered in Eastern
Turkestan is his article ‘‘Mongolica |" (Zapiski of the College of
Orientalists, |, pp. 305-341), which studies Central Asian loan-words
in Mongolian. Professor Vladimirtsov's work at the Universits of
Leningrad is continued by Professor 5. A. Kozin, who has to his
credit a number of extremely valuable works on Mongol folklore
and epic. literature (‘ ‘Geseriada”’ 2, Moscow-Leningrad, 1935 ;
“‘Jangar’’, Moscow-Leningrad. 1940). .

A number of Buddhist texts in Mongolian have been published
in. Urga (now Ulan Bator Khoto) i in Mongolia by the Mongol Scienti-
‘fic. Committee. Among the books. on. Buddhist. subjects printed in
Urga mention can be made of the Buraan Rigemuni-yin éedig orusibai
INDOLOGY: IN RUSSIA gt

(a translation into Mongol of L..N. Tolstoy’s “Life of Buddha’’ by
the well-known scholar Ts. Jamtsarano), and the ‘‘Foundations of
Buddhism’’ in Russian (Ulan-Bator Khoto, 1926)..

Buddhist texts in the Uighur language, discovered in considerable
numbers in Turfan, have been studied by Professor V. V. Radlov, the
eminent Turkologist (1837-1918). In 1910 he published an Uighur
version of the well-known story of Buddha’s meeting with the mer-
chants Trapuga and Bhallika (TiSastoustik, Bibl. Buddhica, vol. XI),
the XX\V-th chapter of the Chinese version of the Saddharmapunda-
rika (Kuan-éi-im Pu-sar, Bibl. Buddhica, Vol. XIV, 1911), and in
collaboration with Professor S. E: Malov the Uighur version of the
Suvarnaprabhdsa (Bibl. Buddhica, XVII). Radlov’s translation of the
Uighur text was published with an intreduction by Professor Malov
(Bibl.Buddhica, XXVII), who in 1910 was sent on a scientific mission —
to Eastern Turkestan and Kansu by the Russian Section of the Asso-
ciation for the Exploration of Central and Eastern Asia. Fragments
of Buddhist texts in Uighur, brought back from Turfan by Roborov-
sky, Klementz, Krotkov and Oldenburg, have been edited by Radlov
in a volume entitled ‘“‘Uigurische Sprachdenkmaeler’’ (Leningrad,
1921); this edition was completed after the author’s death by Profe-
ssor Malov, who also published Uighur MSS brought back by the
expedition of Professor Oldenburg (‘ ‘Uigurskiye rukopisniye dokument
ekspeditsii S. F. Oldenburga’’, Zapiski Instituta Vostokovedeniya, I
(1932), pp. 129-151), A’general exposition of Buddhism, its doctrine
and history was given.by I. A. Podgorbunsky who drew his informa-
tion mainly from Buryat and Mongol sources (“Buddizm’’, Irkutsk,
1902). A number of studies on Buddhism who published by members
of the Russian Orthodox clergy, some of them polemical in charac-
ter. Suffice it to mention Archibishop Nilus’ “‘Buddizm” (St. Peters-
burg. 1858), Methodius’ ‘“The Buddhist Creed or. Lamaism’’ (Buddiy-
skoye mirovozreniye ili lamaizm’’, St. Petersburg, 1902), and Archi-
mandrite Guriy’s monograph on- Mahayana. Buddhism, based on
information collected by the author in the Kalmuck steppe, and
translated by W. A. Unkrig into German (‘‘Der ‘Buddhismus des |
Mahayana’, “‘Anthropos’’, vols. XVIL-XVIIN-XIX, 1922-24). A
monograph on Indian asceticism was given’ by V.:  Kozhevnikov ;
(‘“Indisskiy Asketizm v do- buddiyskiy period’, - Bogoslovekt Vestnik. j
Sergiyev Posad, 1914). i

Since the end of the last cenkiny., eee Rusine ‘eaasgiil nie as ,
evinced considerable interest . towards . Indian philosophy, art and _
literature: The poet Baltrutaitis gave a “beautiful | rendering © into, :
Russian of the Bhagavad-Gita. The» names 5 of Sut Ramakrsna sash .

t %
92 G. N. ROERICH

Svami Vivekananda became familiar to many. A good Russian
translation of the English version of the “Gospel of Ramakrsna”’
(“Pravozvestiye Ramakrishri’’. St. Petersburg, 1914) appeared in
1914, and Russian translations of Svami Vivekdnanda’s lectures
were numerous. Vereshchagin and Nicholas Roerich dedicated many
of their canvases to Indian subjects. Russian poets also felt the spell
of Indian literature. Already the poet Zhukovsky (1783-1852) gave a
Russian translation of the rightly famous poem of Nala and Damayanti
(“Nal i Damayanti’’?).°* The Russian symbolist poet Constantine
Balmont translated into Russian Agvaghosa’s Buddhacarita (‘‘Zhizn’
Buddz’. Moscow, 1913, with a preface by Professor S$. Lévi), and the

dramas of Kalidasa with the assistance of Professor Oldenburg ~

(‘‘Kalidasa. Dramii’’. Moscow, 1916), with an introduction by
Professor Oldenburg on Kalidasa and his work. The volume contains
translations of the Sakuntala, Malavikadgnimitra, Vikramorvagi and the
elegiac poem Meghadita). In 1914 Professor Pavel Ritter translated
Kalidasa’s Meghadita (‘“Oblakovestnik”’, drevne-indiyskaya elegiya
Kalidasi, Kharkov, 1914), and in 1928 gave a translation of Dandin’s
Dagakumaracarita (“‘Pokhozhdeniya desyati yunoshey’’, Kharkov,
1928; also by the same author “‘Dandin and his Dasakumaracarita’’
(in Russian). Kharkov, 1898). Russian translations of the works of
Rabindranath Tagore are numerous, and some of them of a very high
order,” as for example Tagore’ s Gitafijali, beautifully translated into
Russian by the poet Baltrugaitis.

After Minayev, Russian scientific missions to India were few. The
Russian archaeologist Victor Goloubev (now Member of the Ecole
Frangaise de l’Extreme-Orient) completed in 1906-7 a photographic
survey of the Ajanta frescoes. The photographic record is deposited
at the Musée Guimet in Paris.”* In 1914-1918 a Russian Ethnographic
Expedition directed by A. M. Merwarth and L. A. Merwarth, and
organized by the Russian Academy of Sciences, worked in India and
Ceylon. Professor Merwarth made a special study of the South
Indian languages, and published in 1929 a Grammar of colloquial

Tamil (Leningrad, ee #6

24 Mahabharata It, 52-79. Dhukovsky's Russian translation was made
from a German rendering of the. poem,

95 V. Goloubev: ‘“‘Peintures bouddhiques qua Indéi**, Annales du Musée

Guimet. Bibliotheque de vulgarisation, vol. KL (1913); “Ajanta, les pein-
tures de la premidre grotte”; Ars Asiatica, X. Paris, 1931.

» 96 See also A.M. Morwarth:; “Ze. sujet. de Sakuntala dans le drame
Malabarien populaire’’, Vost. Zapiski, I, pp..117-I81. L. A. Merwarth,
“Obryadoviye ubori Kashmirskikh brakhmanov””, Sbornik Mise Antro-

_ pologii i Etnografii, vol. “IL Leningrad, 1927, Pp. 165-209. f ‘

Boone.
INDOLOGY IN RUSSIA 93

Speaking of recent times two names. deserve our attention:
Professor O. O, Rosenberg and Dr. E. E. Obermiller. The lives of
both of them were cut short by fatal illness, but their contribution to
science was great. Professor Rosenberg (1888-1919) studied Sanskrit
and Chinese at the University of St. Petersburg. He also read Sanskrit
with Professor Jacobi in Bonn, and Japanese with Professor Lange
in Berlin. After graduating in 1910, he decided to ‘specialize in
Buddhist philosophy, the study of which he had begun under Professor
Stcherbatsky at the University of St. Petersburg. In 1912 he was
sent on a scientific mission to Japan to study Japanese Buddhist
tradition, with special reference to Vasubandhu’s Abhidharma- -koga.
The results of a four years’ stayin Japan were considerable. He
published a Vocabulary of Buddhist terms under the title of ‘‘A
Survey of Buddhist Terms and Names arranged according to radicals
with Japanese readings and Sanskrit equivalents, supplemented by
addition of terms and names, relating to Shinto and Japanese History,
“Tokio, 1916. Rosenberg suggested an alphabetical arrangement of
Chinese characters, and published in 1916 a dictionary entitled
“Arrangement of Chinese characters according to en alphabetical
system with a Japanese Dictionary of eight thousand characters and

list of twenty-two thousand characters. > Tokio, Kobunsha. In. 1916

Rosenberg returned to Russia, and two years later presented to the |
University of St. Petersburg his Doctoral thesis—‘'Problems of Buddhist
Philosophy”, which was published by the University under the title
of ‘‘Problemi buddiyskoy filosofii’’ (Petrograd, 1918), and represents
a first-rate contribution to our knowledge. of Buddhist philosophy,
with special reference to the dharma-theory, overlooked by’so many
modern students of Buddhism. A German translation of Rosenberg’s
work appeared in the | “‘Materialien zur Kunde des Buddhismus”
edited by Professor M. Walleser . (‘‘Die Probleme der Buddhistischen
Philosophie”’ 4 Heidelberg, 1924). In the same. Series appeared his
essay on modern Buddhism in the F ar East--Die Weltanschauung des
modernen Buddhismus im fernen “Osten’’(Heft 6, ‘Heidelberg, 1924),
representing the German translation of his Russian lecture ‘'O
mirosozertsanii_sovremennogo Buddhizma na Dal’ nem Vostoke”
(Petersburg, 1919", read at the Fi irst . Buddhist Exhibition - held i an. St.
Petersburg in 1919. Appointed Professor at. the University of. eat.
Petersburg, Rosenberg died the same year, leaving x many of, his works

unfinished.
Dr. E. E. Obermiller (\901- 1935), a Sault of Professar  Sicherbataby,

during the eight years. of his scientific: dife produced a number. of ieee

remarkable works, thanks to his. extraordinary command of. ‘Sanskrit

94 G. N. ROERICH

and Tibetan. Dr. Obermiller undertook several journeys to Buryat-
Mongolia, and was able to benefit by the advice and assistance of
Buryat-Mongol learned monks, who introduced him to the intricate
field of Tibetan exegetical literature, and the method of philosophical
disputation adopted in the monastic colleges of Tibet and Mongolia,
This collaboration of Russian scholars with Mongol scholars is a
characteristic feature of Russian researches in the domain of Northern
Buddhism. Obermiller’s first work was the compilation of two
extremely useful Indexes to Dharmakirti’s Nydyabindu and
Dharmottara’s Nyadyabindutika (Sanskrit-Tibetan Index, Bibl. Buddh.
vol, XXIV; Tibetan-Sanskrit Index, Bibl. Buddhica, XXV). He
collaborated with Professor Stcherbatsky in editing the Tibetan texts
of the Abhisamayadlamkdara in the Bibliotheca Buddhica (vol. XXII,
1929). In 1931-2 he published in the ‘‘Materialien zur Kunde des
Buddhismus’’, a translation of the ‘‘History of the Buddhist Doctrine’
(bDe-bar géegs-pa’i bstan-pa’i gsal-byed thos-kyi ’byun-gnas gsun-rab -
rini-po-the’i mdzod-tes-bya-ba, vol. XXIV (Ya) of the Collection of
Works of gSun-’bum) by Bu-ston Rin-&hen-grub (1290-1364), one of
the best known works of Tibetan historiography (‘“‘Bu-ston’s History
of Buddhism’’, Part |. Heidelberg, 1931; Part I]. Heidelberg, 1932)??.
In 1931 he gave a translation into English of the Uttaratanira of
Maitreya- Asanga (‘‘The Sublime Science of the Great Vehicle of
Salvation, being a Manual of Buddhist Monism. The work of Arya
Maitreya with a Commentary by Arydsanga’”; Translated from the
Tibetan by E. E. Obermiller, Acta Orientalia, vol. IX, 1931, pp. 8l-
306). The other works of Dr. Obermiller were chiefly concerned
with the Prajfidpdaramita literature. He gave a general exposition of
the Doctrine of the Prajfidparamita according to the Abhisamaya-
lamka@ra in Acta Orientalia, vol. IX (1932-3). This was followed
by a detailed analysis of the eight principal subjects and the seventy
topics of the Abhisamayalamk4Gra published in the Calcutta Oriental
Series (“‘Analysis of the -Abhisamayalamkdra’’ fasc. |. Calcutta
Oriental Series, No. 27, 1933; fasc. II. Calcutta Oriental Series,
No. 27, 1936; fasc. IIL. Calcutta Oriental Series, No. 27, 1943).
In 1937 appeared his edition of the Sanskrit and Tibetan texts of the
_ PrajfiGpGramitaratnagunasathcayagatha, published posthumously in
_ the Bibliotheca Buddhica (vol. XXIX. 1937). Many of Dr. Ober-
miller’s articles appeared in, ‘the Indian Historical Quarterly of
Calcutta: ‘“‘The Account of * Buddha’ s Nirvana and the first councils |
27 See Obermiller : -“Ba-ston’ 8 History of Buddhism and the Mafijusri-

. milatantra”’. JRAS, 1938, containing ‘corrections of reconstructed Sanskrit
ih ae memes in the geri of the “History of Buddhism", ie :
INDOLOGY IN RUSSIA 95

according to the Vinayaksudraka’”’ (Indian Historical Quarterly, vol.
V; 3); “A Study of the Twenty Aspects of Siinyata’’ (IHQ. vol. IX,
1933); ‘‘Nirodna according to the Tibetan tradition’” (THQ. 1934), and
“On the meaning of the term Sanyata’”’ (Journal of the Greater India
Society, July, 1934).?8

Looking at the modern period one notices a considerable swing of
interest from the traditional fields of Sanskrit and Buddhism towards
Sanskrit belles-letters, modern Indian languages and _ literature.
However the old tradition did not exhaust itself, and there are signs
that it will again reassert itself. Among the scholars of this period
one name stands foremnst—Professor A. A. Barannikov (b. 1890),
elected to the Academy of Sciences in 1939. In the early days of his
scientific career Professor Barannikov did not escape the Russian
traditional interest in Buddhism, and at least two of his early articles
deal with Buddhism and Buddhist Art (‘‘Zabaykal’skiye datsanii’’
(Buddhist Monasteries in Buryat-Mongolia), Materyali po Etnografi,

vol. Il, fase. ]. Leningrad, 1926, pp. 123-31; ‘‘Statuetka dokshita iz
Sobraniya Khara-khoto” (‘‘An image of a _ drag-géed’ from the

Khara-khoto Collection’’). Materyali po Etnografii, vol. Ill, 2, pp.
113-4. In recent years Professor Barannikov has given us several
manuals of Hindustani: ‘‘4 Grammar of Hindustani” (Leningrad,
1926). ‘““Madern Hindustani Prose’’. (Leningrad, 1927), ‘‘Modern
Hindustani Prose’’ (Leningrad, 1930), and ‘‘A Manual of Hindustani’’
In 1937 Professor Barannikov published an excellent translation of
Lalla ji Lal’s Prem Sagar with an exhaustive introduction on the
author, the modern Indian languages and the evolution of Hindi
(‘‘Legendi o Krishne’’, vol. XXV. Leningrad-Moscow, 1937).
Professor Barannikov has also completed a translation into Russian
of Tulsi Das’ Ramayana, which is in the process of publication.
Among the articles by Professor Barannikov we may. mention the
“*Synonymic repetition in Hindustani’ (in Russian, Vost. Zapiski, |

Leningrad, 1927, pp. 71-91), “On the dialect of the Gypsies of
Belgorod” (Comptes rendus de P Académie des Sciences de l'USSR,
1929, pp. 121-128), “‘Saptasaroj Prem Chanda’’ in the “‘Symposium in
Honour of Professor S. F. Oldenburg”? (Leningrad, 1934, pp. 73-83),
Problems of Hindi prose’ (In Russian, Zapiski of :the Oriental
Institute, vol. VII, 1939, pp. 203-54), ete. Among Professor Baranni-

kov's pupils we must mention Professor V. Beskrovniy, one of ‘the

lending authorities 0 on pigeoucte Indian languages i in, nue USSR.

28 For a falfes list see. Professor Stcherbatsly't i Ohikents) Notiee of Dr.
BE, BE, Obermiller in the ZZ Q. vol. xu, 2 amie 1986), p pp- 380-2. ek

96 G, N. ROERICH

. Among the works of this period one must mention Boris Larin’s
translation of some Re-Veda hymns, which appeared in the perio-
dical ‘'Vostok’’ (Leningrad, 1922), a translation into Russian of
Kalidasa’s greatest kd@vya the Raghuvaméa, by Professor Igor
Serebryakov. Prof. R. I. Shor’s study of the different recensions
of the Vet@lapaficaviméatika (in “‘Symposiam in honour of S. F,
Oldenburg’, Leningrad, 1934. pp. 611-25), and his article on the
Vedic aorist (in the “Symposium in honour of Professor N. Y.
Marr’, Leningrad, 1935, pp. 433-51). The great Russian Arabist
Professor I. Y. Krachkovsky wrote on the cultural influence of
India on Arabic culture in the Vill-th century (‘Un fragment
de rhétorique indoue en réproduction arabe’, Vost. Zapiski, |,
pp. 26-37),

As stated above, the collections of MSS and books belonging to
the Asiatic Museum were transferred in 1930 to the newly created
Oriental Institute (Institut Vostokovedeniya) of the Academy of
Sciences, and all Oriental research became centralized under the
guidance of this new institution. The unique collections of MSS
and Oriental books belonging to the Institute have been saved from
destruction during the siege of Leningrad by a band of heroic and
self-denying men and women. One of the major undertakings of
this Institute is the translation into Russian of the whole Maha-
bhérata undertaken by Professor V. J. Kalyanov, the publication
_ of which will be eagerly anticipated.

The tradition of Professor Stcherbatsky is being maintained
by Professor M. 1. Tubyansky (b. 1893) and Professor Andrey I.
Vostrikov. Professor Tubyansky’s interests lie in the field of Indian
philosophy and Bengali. In 1922 he published a volume on Bengali
literature (‘“Obraztsi bengal’skoy Titeratur?’’. Petrograd, 1922).
His edition of. the Sanskrit text of the Nu@udpravesa with the
Chinese, Mongol and Tibetan versions was to be published in the
Bibliotheca Buddhica. He was also preparing for publication in
the same series en edition of the Chinese version of Dignaga’s
-Nydayadvara, and a translation of the important Grub-mtha’ éhen-mo
by Jam-dbyans biad-pa (1648-1722). :

Professor A. J. Vostrikov has. been Professor Stcherbatsky’s chief
assistant in recent years. His interest lies chiefly in the field of
Buddhist Logic. He has undertaken several journeys to the Buddhist
monasteries of Buryat- -Mongolia, and collected on behalf of the
— Oriental Institute Tibetan and Mongol xylographs.. In 1935 he. contri-
‘buted an important article on the. Nuydyavartika of Uddyotakara, and
the Vadanyaya of Dharmakirti. ‘to ‘the. Indian Historical Quarterly
INDOLOGY IN RUSSIA me

(vol. XI, 1, 1935, pp. 1-31). Important for Tibetan bibliography are
his “Corrections and critical remarks on Dr. Johan van Manen’s
contribution to the Bibliography of Tibet." inthe Bulletin of the
School of Oriental Studies (vol. Vill, part 1 (1935), pp. 51-77).
Professor Vostrikov collaborated with Professor N. N. Poppe in
editing Buryat-Mongol chronicles (“Letopis’ Barguzinskikh Buryat’’;
Trudi Instituta Vostokovedeniya, VIII. Leningrad, 1935). Translations
of Vacaspatimisra’s Nydyavartikatatparyatika and his Tattvabindu
were scheduled to appear in the Bibliotheca Buddhica, as well as
the Tibetan text of the Pramdnavdartika of Dharmakiiti.

For a long time the only books on Indian History in Russian were
Z. A. Ragozin’s ‘History of India’’ (St. Petersburg, 1905), concerned
mainly with the Vedic period, and Dr. E.S. Schmidt’s “History of
India’’ in the well-known ‘“‘History of Mankind’’ of H. Helmolt (vol.
Il. St. Petersburg, 1909, pp. 341-505). Professor Krimsky’s ‘‘History
of Persia and her literature’? (Moscow, 1914-7, pp. 159-226) contains
a chapter on the history of Ancient India and discusses at some
length the Persian literature of the Mogul period. Since the discovery
of the Indus culture the inclusion of Ancient India in textbooks on the.
History of the Ancient East has become imperative. In 194] Professor
V. V. Struve (b. 1889) published a ‘“‘History of the Ancient East”’
(Leningrad-Moscow, 483 pp.), which includes Ancient India and
China.”® It is a matter for great gratification that the Oriental
Institute of the Academy of Sciences has undertaken the publication
of a ‘‘History of India’’, for the absence of a scientific work. on this
subject is a big gap in pees historiography.

Political conditions have adversely affected the. arelaedboaionl
exploration of Central Asia since the frst World War. Much impor:
tant work has been done in the excavation and preservation of
monuments belonging to the Muslim period in the Central Asian
republics of Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan and Tajikistan. Numerous
sites belonging to the Buddhist period still await the spade of the
explorer in the old Bactrian kingdom, Buddhist Sogdiana. In 1922 M.
G. Vecheslov made a tour of Afghanistan: and prepared a survey of
Buddhist sites (‘‘Arkheologicheskiye. pamyainiki v Afganistane’ airat

““Alganistan’’, Moscow, 1924). “The exploration of Buddhist sites in
Tajikistan has been inaugurated by an archaeological expedition led |
by Professor B. Denike in 1927, sent out by the Museum of Eastern
Cultures in Moscow; during’. which. Aw Bh ier ‘Strelkov discovered a —
Buddhist stipa and fragments wok Greco: water _seulpfurey a

29 Prof. V. F. Miuorsky : “Oriental Studies in the v. 8. 8. R., P 82.

98 G. N. ROERICH

limestone in the neighbourhood of Termez (B. Denike, ‘‘Termez’’.
n ‘‘Noviy Vostok’’, No. 22 (1928), pp. 208 ff; A. S. Strelkov,
‘‘Buddhist monuments in Termez’”’ in ‘‘Kul’tura Vostoka’ (‘Oriental
Culture’’); Museum of Eastern Cultures, Moscow, 1928).

The cultural links between the countries of the Amu-darya basin .
and the north-western borderland of India have long ago interested
Russian scholars. Sarmatian and Indo-Scythian antiquities were
studied by Professor M. I. Rostovtsevy—a subject which merits further
attention on the part of the historian of India’s North-West (‘‘Receuil
d'études dediées a la mémoire de N. P. Kondakov, Prague, 1926, pp.
239-57). Another important work scheduled to appear shortly is
Professor K. Trever’s study of the Kushan period.

The recent excavations by Professor Sergey P. Tolstov of ancient
sites in Khwarazm have furnished us with a wealth of new data,
which point to close cultural relations between ‘Khwarazm and the
North-Western borderland of India during the Kushan period (S. P.
Tolstov’s article in ‘‘Vestnik drevney istorii’, IV (1938), pp. 120-45).
Professor Tolstov’s large work on Ancient Khwarazm was scheduled
to appear in 1945. The excavation work will be resumed in the
spring of 1946.

We have attempted to give a brief survey of the Ea done by
Russian scholars in the field of Indology. Wehave seen that much
of this work had been devoted tothe study of Northern Buddhism,
and thatin recent years a sound foundation had been laid for the
study of modern India, her languages and literatures. Geographical
proximity and historical ties made Russian scholars devote particular
attention to the study and exploration of Central Asia (Turkestan,
Mongolia, Tibet), a region which throughout the first millenium A. D.
had been a cultural province of a Greater Indian cultural whole, and
many parts of which still preserve a priceless heritage of Indian culture
and thought.
sot

Mainamati and Lalmai Finds and the Kingdom
of Pattikera. us

T. N. RaMacHANDRAN.

In August-September 1943 the find of brick structures and
images of terracotta material in the course of trench diggings at
Mainamati, six miles west of the town of Comilla, was brought to
my notice by the Collector of Tippera District. An inspection was
immediately arranged and a survey of apart of the area along the
Mainamati and Lalmairanges conducted. The results obtained in
the course of my brief survey are sufficiently indicative of the
importance of the area to archaeologists. The importance of the
discoveries will be best known anda valuable contribution made to
the history of Bengal when excavation of the area is undertaken.

Five miles to the west of Comilla rises alow hill range with an
average height of 90 feet above sea-level and 40 feet above the level
of the surrounding plains. This low hill extends from Mainamati i in
the north to Lalmai Railway Station in the south, fora distance of
about 10 miles, north to south, and is called Mainamati range near
Mainamati and Lalmai range further down where it widens. To the
west of the range lies Tripura State. The hill is called Lalmai
(Rohitagiri) from the fact that it is made up of slightly micaceous,
yellow-coloured standstone and ferruginous concretions, which when
decomposed colour the top of the hill brick-red.

Like its geological importance the Lalmai area affords sufficient
interest to the archaeologists. The plains are studded with what
appear to be entombed. ruins, a supposition which proved to be
nearly correct in an area four miles to the south-west of Comilla where
the Central Public Works Department cut through a few mounds and
extracted a large number of. bricks from well-planned structures.
The Collector's report regarding the diggings i in the ‘military: area
gave me high hopes of archaeological discoveries at Mainamati,” as
the name ‘Mainamati’ is in Bengal - history and religion sufficient to
conjure up a vista of archaeological wealth.

*Mainamati’, the name by which the. village and the eaioining hill
are known to-day, recalls the name. of Queen Mayanamati (Madana-
vati), the wife of Manikeandra of. the Candra meas that ruled i in ..

100 T. N. RAMACHANDRAN

popularly sung in Bengalin which the queen and her son Gopicandra
figure. According to [Taranatha and some of these ballads, Gopi-
candra was a ruler of Mrikula (now known as Meharkula in Tippera
District). :

In the old Bengali Caryd-padas, that deal with the mystical
esoteric doctrines and Yogic theories and practices of the Buddhist
Sahajayana, we find an interesting hierarchy of Siddha poets who are
Matsyendranatha, Gorakh-natha, Jalandhri-pada or Hadi- “parand
Kanha-pa, the last mentioned assignable to the end of the twelfth
century. Kanha-pa’s Guru was Jalandharipada or Hadi- padt himself
a disciple of Gorakh-nath. Queen Mainamati was Gorakh-nath’s
disciple, while Hadipa figures in the legend cycle of her son Gopi-
cand, which speaks of Gopicand’s unwilling renunciation, while
-young, of his kingdom and his wives, Adund and Padund, at the
request of his mother Mainamati, who by dint of her Yogic powers
had come to know that he could not otherwise be ‘saved from
premature death, and also how he left his home asa disciple of
Hadi-pa, a Guru of low caste, who is Gorakh-nath’s disciple. The
Sahajayana of the Carydpadas relates to mystic Buddhism like
Vajrayana. While in Vajrayana ceremonials were emphasized, in
Sahajayana ceremonials were dispensed with, though the goal of
both was the same, viz., Mahasukha. The prevalence of the
Sahajayana in Mainamati is attested to by an inscription. of the
thirteenth century A.D. engraved on a copper-plate found at Maina-
mati which records a grant of land in favour of a Buddhist monastery
built in the city of Pattikera by Ranavankamalla Harikaladeva in A.D
1220 inthe seventeenth year of his reign.. This record also speaks

of a superior officer of the royal groom as practising the Sahajadharma
in jp EER : :

The Kingdom of Paitikkerd.

Pattikera was the capital city of the kingdom of that name mention-
ed in Burmese Chronicles as Pattikkara or Pateikkara, a name that may
be traced back to the eleventh century A.D. A pargand of Tippera

District which extends to Mainamati hills is still known as Patikara or
_Paitkara and in older documents as Patikera or Paitkeraé. This helps

us to look for Pattikera of the copper-plate: in this pargana. Of
_ particular interest is the evidence. furnished by an inscription of the
) seventh century A. D. Aeleraae to. a. 2 Toyal palace or residence at

SE Indian Wistorical Ouasvterts: Gol TR x 9R9
MAINAMATI AND LALMAI FINDS for
Karmanta, the modern Badkamta, 12 miles west of Comilla and
6 miles west of Mainamati in Tippera District. Later records, such
as the Baghaura inscription of the time of the: Pala king Mahipala
(eleventh century A.D) and the Mehar copper-plate of Damodara-
deva (1234 A.D.) establish the connection of Samatata with the
modern Tippera District. In Samatata was situated the principality
or the kingdom of Pattikera, whose existence according to recent finds
at Mainamati can be traced as far back as the eighth century A.D.
Coins similar to certain symbolical coins of the Candra dynasty of
Arakan, who had their capital at Wethali in Arakan from 788 to 957
A.D., and terracotta plaques with representations of Arakanese and
Burmese men and women were found at Mainamati. These throw
light on the relations between India and Burma in the eighth to the
tenth centuries A.D. In the coins the name of the principality is given
as Patikera, while the Burmese Chronicles refer to this kingdom as
Patikkara, the country of Kalas or foreigners which bounded on the
west the kingdom of Anoratha (1044-1077 A.D). They refer also to a
king ‘Pateikkara of the kingdom of Marawa’. The references in the
Burmese Chronicles imply that this kingdom was an independent
State during the eleventh and twelfth centuries A.D,. when the Pala.
and Sena kings were ruling over Bengal. An intimate intercourse |
between this kingdom and the kingdoms of Burma is proved by these
Chronicles, and inter- marriages in the royal families ‘between the two
countries were also common. Pattikera princes and princesses figure
in the. romances and tragedies i in Burmese annals, poems and melo-
dramas, andthe name of the Burmese king Kyanzittha (1084-1112
A.D), Alaungsithu and Narathu are wellknown. Indian Buddhism
was welcomed by Kyanzittha who built the Ananda temple at Pagan
after the temples of the Indian mainland. The Ananda temple is
described asthe best creation of Indo-Burmese art. Harikaladeva
Ranavankamalla, who jn 1220 A. D. was presumably ruling as an
independent king, appears to have been a feudatory chief, who along
’ with two other ruling families with name-endings-deva came to power
after the collapse of the Sena sway. in the thirteenth century A.D.
Strangely enough we do not hear of the principality of Pattikera after
Harikaladeva; only the name, ‘survives in’ the modern pargana ‘of
Patikara or Paitkara. Probably it. Was absorbed in the growing
kingdom of the Deva: family. of

Linguistic Medium of the Sarvastivada Schoo!l—
An introduction.

ANUKUL CHANDRA BANERJEE

From the Chinese and the Tibetan translations as also from the
manuscript fragments discovered in Central Asia, Nepal and very
recently at Gilgit in Kashmir, and from quotations found in the
Lalitavistara, DivydGvaddna, Mahavastu, Abhidharmakoga, Mddhya-
makavrtti and from such other texts, we know that the Sarvdstivadins
as well as the Milasarvastivadins employed Sanskrit as their literary
medium’. Prof. Winternitz’s view is substantially to the same effect.
He adds further that the Sarvastivadins who had their sphere of
activity extending from Kashmir to Mathura and were responsible
for the introduction of Buddhism into Central Asia, Tibet and China,
had canons of their own, although no complete copy is available up
till now*®. The Theravadins, the followers of the orthodox school,
assert that the Pali canon preserves the original words of Buddha.
This traditional belief of the Theravada school has been chal-
lenged bythe veteran scholars of the Buddhist Sanskrit literature,
such as Gruenwedel, Petrowsky, Kremenz, Pelliot, LeCoq, Hoernle,
Sylvain Lévi, L. Poussin and others, on the basis of the discovery of
the numerous Sanskrit manuscript fragments in Nepal, Eastern
Turkestan and the neighbouring regions®. The manuscripts dis-
covered in Central Asia up to this day have been amply proved to be
fragments of the texts belonging to the Sarvastivada and later
Mahayana schools*. We have no complete copy of the Sanskrit
Tripitaka still available to us. But with the find. of the manuscripts
and also from quotations in the various Buddhist Sanskrit texts like
the Mahawastu, the Divyavadana and the Lalitavistara, it has been
shown that the Sarvastivada school had a Tripitaka of its own’.

1 See A complete catalogue of the Tibetan Buddhist canons, ed. HukujuUi
and others; Cordier's Catalogue, Pts. 11 & Ill; B. Nanjio, A complete Cata-
logue of the Chinese translation of the Buddhist Lripitaka; Hoernle, Manu-
script Remains of Buddhist Literature found in astern Turkestan; Gilgit
Manuscripts, ed. N. Dutt, vols. I-INI/

2 Winternitz, A Histor, y of Indian Literature, vol. LI. pp. 281, 232.

3 Hoernle, Manuscript Remains of the Buddhist literature found in
Eastern Turkestan, p. 16ff. . :

4° N, Dutt, Harly History of the Spread of Budatism and. Buddhist
Sehools, p. 239.

5 Hoernle. Mahiuacriye Remains: “t the: Buddhist, literature found in
Eastern Purkestan, PP. 452, 166-175, and. Winternitz, A History of Indian
Sasa

Nir enna ote

SARVASTIVADA LINGUISTIC MEDIUM 103

The existence of Buddhist Sanskrit manuscripts was quite unknown
to scholars in India and abroad before. 1824. The credit for the
discovery of the manuscripts goes to Brian Houghton Hodgson®. It
was he who first discovered Buddhist Sanskrit manuscripts’, :mount-
ing to 381 bundles, in Nepal. This new find of manuscripts proved
that there were Buddhist canons preserved in a language other than
Pali and created a stirin the world of Buddhist scholarship. The
traditional belief that all the Buddhist canons are Biesewen only in
Pali was first shaken thereby.

The canon of the Sarvastivadins was no doubt written in Bea
But the texts such as the Pratimoksasitira’, the Lalitavistara and other
manuscript fragments of Agamas amply prove that their canon is a
revised version of an older canon and composed ina language not
always conforming to the rules of Sanskrit grammar, This is called
“‘Buddhist Sanskrit’? or ‘‘Mixed Sanskrit’ i.e., partly Sanskrit and
partly Prakrit (or Middle Indian dialect) assimilated to Sanskrit’.

As regards this language, it may be observed here that there was
aclass of Buddhist writers of Sanskrit who paid more attention to
nieaning than to correct form. ‘‘It regards as well-as ‘disregards the
elementary canons of grammar, metre, and even vocabulary. A sweet
melody seems to be its chief aim, and for this it is ready to sacrifice
every other essential condition ofa language’*®, And the conse-
quence was that their writings abounded in grammatical. and other
irregularities. These consist in the use of

(1) Corrupt words, (2) Irregular pauses, (3) Words with no
case-endings, (4): Words with wrong case-endings, (5) Elision of |
vowels and consonants, (6) Sandhis not sanctioned by the rules of
grammar, (7) Sonants for surds and vice-versa, (8) Locative for
ablative, or genitive for dative, (9) Reflective voice (&manepada)
for active. voice (parasmaipada) * ‘and vice-versa, (10) Singular for

6 See R. L. Mitra, N epalese Buddhist Literature (Preface) and C. Bendall,

Catalogue of ‘Buddhist Sanskrit Manuscripts (Preface) for i page! and
works of Hodgson. Bee
7 These manuseripts were. presented. to various learned vedien' ‘such as ‘the
(Royal) Asiatic Society of Bengal. (Calcutta), the Royal Asiatic Soctety - of
Great Britain and Ireland (London),' the: ‘Bodleian : Library: (Oxford), he
Societe Asiatique, the Bibliothéque Nationale (Paris). He
§ Two versions of the Pratimokgasiitra are now available—one Eatontieg
to the Sarvastivada school and the other to the Milasarvastivada.
‘ 9 Gilgit Manuscripts, vol. 11, ed.. N. ‘Dutt, ‘Introduction, Winternitz,
A History of Indian Literature, vol, TL, pp. 2 26 ff. R. L. Mitra,’ Nepalese :
Buddhist Literature, Introductio
Samadhiraja Sutra, Introduction, P- 1
modernes, Paris, 1934. DB. 8s:

do-aryan du feel oe tenes

Ke Ri amey; “Three Chapters. from the

104 ANUKUL CHANDRA BANERJEE

plural and vice-versa, (11) Neuter for masculine and vice-versa,
(12) Interchange of S, S and S, (13) Interchange of dental n and
cerebral n, and (14) Diverse forms of pronouns”?.

Of the above list, the verbs display the greatest Middle Indian
elements. This may be illustrated by the following instances :

(i) The use of verbs which do not conform to any fixed rule and
as such have irregular forms—mostly due to the predilection for
abbreviation, e.g. degenti for degasyanti, darégeti for durgayati, prdra-
thenti for prdrathayenti, janenti for janayantis bhoti for bhavati,
bhonti for bhavanti, bhesyati for bhavisyati, codenti for codayanti
and the like, ©

(ii) the use of 82 (indicative), 2nd person, plural for @tZ impeta:
tive), 2nd person plural, e.g., vijanatha.

(iii) the use of aorists with Prakrtic inflexions, e.g., upagami,
bhavayi, ksipi, avaci, preksi and the like,

(iv) the use of tude for lyap, e. g., Paryapunitva, pravrojitud,
nisevitud, etc.

Since the exploration of the manuscript fragments of the Sanskrit
Sutra and Vinaya texts in Eastern Turkestan and neighbouring
regions, the Buddhist researchers in the field have been anxiously
expecting the discovery of further materials to.confirm the assertion
of the previous scholars. Fortunately, the manuscripts very. recently
discovered _ at Gilgit have fulfilled the high expectations | of the
scholars. ‘Tt is a matter of gratification that the Gilgit manuscripts
explored so far have restored almost half of the Sanskrit Vinaya.
Besides the Sanskrit Vinaya texts, they contain several other manu-
scripts not belonging to the Sanskrit canonical literature. There
is no room for doubt that all these maruscripts belonged to the
Sarvastivada school which became most influential and wide-spread —
in the post-Agokan period, particularly in the Kushan times.

An analysis of the history of Sanskrit Buddhism reveals that the
prevalence of Prakrit in this literature is due mainly to the fact that
Prakrit was the literary medium for a long period. It is an agreed
fact that Buddha discarded Sanskrit as a medium for ‘the propaga-
tion of religion and the consequence was that Sanskrit came to the
background for the time being. King Agoka, too, whose enthusiasm
for the cause of Buddhism is too well-known to be mentioned,

ll To illustrate some of the atete, let us cite here the utterances of the
Blessed One in verses from Milatantra:- me

qe wigurat aay facie eu aralgigayay
tet wale Bfgeat Ty et whee ait erihat meq TP TGHAETTT

“areersrorfrratirfir: srsaifncan fe tan he pass Sense, tare: aent iota touches 6 "
SARVASTIVADA LINGUISTIC MEDIUM 105

caused edicts to be incised in his vast empire. These edicts extol
the ideal life and the fruit of meritorious acts and they are un-
doubtedly in Prakrit. There is no room. for doubt: that in the Pre-
Buddhistic days Sanskrit was the literary medium of the people in
North-Western India, and the inscriptions of Agoka which were
primarily meant for appealing to the hearts of the people, could not
inthe longrun produce the desired result. The reason lies in this
that people still had a leaning towards Sanskrit. Sanskrit, although
for the time being it had receded to the background, recovered from
the shock and with the revival of Brahmanism under the Gupta
dynasty regained the lost position. We find an exactly similar state
of affairs even in literary works.. The existing Sanskrit works were
changed into Prakrit and many original works in Prakrit were also
composed.. But a reverse tide came as a result of which Prakrit works

were changed into Sanskrit as we find in the Mahdvastu, the Lalita-

vistara and the like’. It is also evident from the fragments of the
Pratimoksasiitra, Udénavarga, Dharmapada, Dirghagama, Madhyamé-
gama; Samyuktdgama", as also from the Lalitavistara, Divydvadana,
and other works that the Sarvastivadins adopted Sanskrit as the
language of the school. The Vibhdasas—the originals of which are lost

but extant in Chinese and Tibetan—composed in the Council ot

Kaniska, were very likely in Sanskrit.

Thus we see that the. Sarvastivadins had a Sanskrit canon of these

own and adopted Sanskrit as their literary medium. Both the Tibetan
and the Chinese versions of the Tripitaka testify to the above fact.
lt is akin to the Pali Pitakas in contents but the lists of Nikaya Sitras

and Vinaya Chapters are different. This is probably because both.

the versions, Pali and Sanskrit, sprang froma still older canon, the
canon in the Magadhi dialect, which was very likely employed by
Buddha in his religious discourses... The later texts now available of
this school such as the Divydavadana, Avadanagataka, Abhidharma-
kogavyakhyd and the like, are all in pure Sanskrit’*. A critical study
of the texts published already under the caption ‘‘Gilgit Manuscripts”

also reveals the same fact. Further, the Sarvastivadins, it will be

remembered, had their sphere of activities in Mathura, Gandhara and

Kashmir, where Sanskrit was prevalent, which extended later on to
Central Asia, China and Tibet. | : ees egies

12 Keith, A History of Sanskrit Titerature, pp. Vas, Dr. N. Dutt,
Early History of the Spread of Buddhism and. Buddhist Schools, p. 276.

13 Hoernle, Manuscript ‘Remains a. Buddhist literature. jones in Eust 7m
Pirkestan, pp. 36-46, cine <

14 The verse-portions | are be ‘course: ‘in , Githa-dialects—the “Gathas
cited by way of authority. The same thing may. be’ ‘said of the other’ Mahayana

works such as the Saddharmapundartka Sttra, Suvammanrat hia» and the A

E fo bball en Chee eed a OR be Sn oto! Soria bnte, F ae

Pe

REVIEWS OF BOOKS

THE AGRICULTURAL AND HUNTING METHODS OF THE
NAVAHO INDIANS. By W. w, Hill, Published for the Department of

Anthropology. Yale University, Yale University Press, 1938. pp. 194,
Plates 4, Figures 12. Price 2, 59.

The material for this study was collected during the summer

of 1933 and between July 1, 1934 and July 1,:1935. ‘The information
was collected from 43 informants of both sexes inhabiting the diffe-
rent parts of Navaho habitag. The author does not give any reason
for selecting these persons as informants. He has zlso not stated
his knowledge about the language of the Navaho. Employment

of five interpreters perhaps indicates that he is not acquainted with
the language of the people, . 7

The book is divided Into six chapters viz.
culture, Agricultural Ritual,
Conclusion. In the Introductj
and extent of the Navaho territ
25,000 square miles of territor

Introduction, Agri-

Hunting, Non-Ritual Hunting and
on the author deals with the location
ory which ‘‘comprises approximately
7 y situated roughly between 108° and
111°45° north latitude, ang 34°55’ west longitude.’ (Unfortunately
the other longitude is not me 7

sntioned). This region forms a part of
the Colorado Plateux Province. The climate of the Navaho pocien

is semi-arid. The mean annual rainfall ranges from ‘12’ 80 inches
te.4" 96 inches. a different parts of the reservation and the maxi-
mum annual range of temperature at different stations varied from
109° to 127°. Navaho *conomic life is adjusted to these climatic
factors. The; Buthor ‘ala ives in the Introduction a short resumé
of the seasonal and daily life of the people: -The. Navaho “Rave sive
primiary seasons, summer and winter, and twelve months with an
occasional thirteenth month to correct the lunar calendar. merce

In the chapter on Agriculture the author gives a very lucid and
detailed account of the different methods of cultivation, the types
of implements used,-the different kinds of crops produced and how
they are stored and utilised, He also mentions that non-food plants
like eotton and tobacco werdnever grown bythe Navalio bat. were
Utlised: from wild sources, The four ‘Most important. cultivated
Apad-crope: ate ‘corn, melons, squash “anid’ beans.\ “Peachés:jand
Wheat were introduced into the Southwest by the Spanish, and
These two _ crops considerably influenced the economy of the
Navaho. Wheat matured early ‘in: summer and’ thereby ‘eliminated
the want which. the people t.1... wi.

REVIEWS OF BOOKS

107

stored food. It was an off-season crop. Moreover Gi ee could be
produced at a higher altitude which increased the total area of
cultivable land and at the same time released land in lower altitudes
for cultivation of other crops.

Ritual and practical processes of agriculture have been inter-
woven into a highly integrated whole. Success or failure jn agri-
culture does not depend so much on individual efforts or environ-
mental factors, as on correct performance of the rituals. Corn,
the most important cereal food of the tribe. is held in great venera-
tion. One of the informants states that ‘‘corn is just the same as
a human being, only it is holier.”" “‘When a man goes into the
corn field he feels that ppc is in a holy place, that he is walking
among Holy People... The magico religious sanction for agri-
culture lies in such inytholopical beliefs and. they find expression
in the chants recited at different stages of agricultural operations
and in observance of the various taboos.

Hunting is widely practised for supply of meat to the family.
As an economic pursuit it is second to agriculture. Deer and ante-
lope were the most important game animals. Besides these two,
the Navaho also hunted the rabbit, prairie dog, porcupine, mountain
sheep; elk, squirrel, and turkey. The eagle and the bear were
killed only for cetemonial purposes. Before the introduction of
guns, bows and arrows were the weapons for hunting. Arrow heads
are now-a-days made of iron but formerly they used to be fashioned
out of the tip’of the wooden shaft. The Navaho employ different
methods of hunting. ‘Deer were stalked, tracked, shot from
ambush,. surrounded by fire, trapped in pit falls and run down.
Antelope were stalked, impounded, and run down. Elk were
tracked. Bears were enticed from their dens i in winter and clubbed.
Most all animals were shot, or caught in dead fall traps,”

In hunting, rituals play a very important part. In fact there are
two broad divisions of hunting based on the performance or non-
performance of rituals. ‘‘Deer, antelope, bear and eagles were |
ritually hunted.”’ Animals like buffaloe, elk, mountain lion, wolf,
etc. were hunted without ritual...““The Navaho believed that
although the hunters killed the game, bobs game did. not die but
eventually returned to its “own country.” “The game are like
human beings, only . holier. They are like the Holy People.’
These beliefs supplied the mental. background of the various obser- 7
vances and ceremonies connected. with hunting. Navaho culture
aoe overburdened . with, rituals from our ‘standpoint but to them it
appears to be quite ‘normal: This: is...
of the ritual and practical. sides. of life. The. author has. very. ably |

jue | to the perfect adjustment —

Se ede ee atti “of thasectwo aes in agriculture. and hunting.
108 es REVIEWS OF BOOKS

This is also found in other departments of life. Even contact with
white culture has not changed the religious life of the people though
in certain cases it has changed their material life.

The author’s suggestion that rituals have two functions in Navaho
life, appear to be very plausible. Wherever and whenever the
Navaho feels that his practical knowledge is inadequate, he tries to
compensate it by means of rituals. The second function of ritual
is to provide occasions for relief from the every day humdrum life.

In the last section of the book the author has tried to show the
relation of Navaho culture with its neighbouring cultures primarily
in respect of agriculture and hunting. So far as practical proce-
dures of agriculture are concerned the Pueblos and the Navaho have
the greatest number of similarities, But not soin rituals, In hunting
again the Navahos are more nearly related to the people of the
Great Basin and Plateau and not to the Pueblos. In the opinion
of Dr. Hill *‘the material and economic culture of the Navaho is
fundamentally that of the Great Basin, but shows a definite influence
from Plains culture in some past time. Upon this fundamental Great
Basin culture generalized Pueblo traits form a superficial layer.’’

We congratulate the author on his very clear exposition of the
culture traits surrounding agriculture and hunting among the Navaho.
Some of these traits are found in almost the same shape among
the Pre-Dravidian tribes of Chota Nagpur and in the folk rites pex-
formed by the unmarried Hindu girls of Bengal. Dr. Abanindranath
Tagore, the reputed Indian artist, has tried to show this similarity
in his book on the Vratas of Bengal. The chants which our little
girls recite in course of these Vratas find parallels in the chants of
the Amer-Indian tribes. A comparative study of the folk rites of
Bengal and the rituals of these Amer-Indian tribes may reveal
interesting laws of culture growth.

T. C. Das

CHANDRAGUPTA MAURYA AND HIS TIMES. (Sir William
‘Meyer Lectures, 1940-41). By Radha Kumud Makpetiess: pp- xiv+
414, University of Madras, 1943.

The course of lectures comprised in this volume, says the author
in his Preface, is intended “‘to fillup a gap in our knowledge of
ancient India’ in the shape of furnishing a comprehensive account of
‘the life and times of ‘India’s first historical emperor.” In this
attempt, it must be admitted, the author has attained a considerable
vmeasure of success. Some idea of the scope of this work may be
formed from the headings of its successive chapters: [, Origin
and Early Life, I]. Conquests | and. Chronology, | If. Administra-
‘tion: Ideals ; Divisions (a rather’ ‘odd combination), IV. The
King, V. Ministers: Roles of Service, VI. Administrative

REVIEWS OF BOOKS ~ 109

Departments and. Officers, VII. Land System and Rural Administra-
tion, VIII. Municipal Administration, IX. Law, X, The Army,
XI. Social Conditions, XII. Economic Conditions. Three appen-
dices, of which two deal with Canakya and Candragupta traditions
from Buddhist and Jaina sources and the third traces the parallelism
between Asoka's edicts and Kautilya’s Arthagastra bring this volume
to a close. - . ;

While congratulating the author on the industry and patience
with which he.has. marshalled his material from ‘the most varied
sources literary as well as archaeological, we may be permitted to
make a few remarks. The author has freely used the Arthasastra of
Kautilya as his most important source-book for the state of adminis-~
tration, society and religion in Candragupta Maurya’s time. But
there are, as is well known, certain fundamental differences between
the polity of Kautilya’s work and that of Candragupta’s empire as
described by Megasthenes. The Kautilyan State is still, as in the
older ArthasGstra part and parcel of an international State-system,
thus falling far short of a single empire uniting the then known Indian
world, except the extreme south under a single sway. The official

nomenclature of the Kautilyan administration, both central and local, |

is widely different from that ..known to Aéoka’s inscriptions and

traceable no doubt to the times of his grandfather. The type of |

administrative organisation, again, as illustrated. by Kautilya’s Boards
of Judges and his staff of single officers in charge of the civil and
military administrations differs markedly frora that set forth in Megas-
_thenes and at a later date in the Aégokan epigraphs. The author, in
his anxiety to hunt up points of agreement between Kautilya and
Megasthenes, systematically slurs over these essential differences,
On page 48 the author quotes the famous lines of Matthew Arnold
(“The East bowed low before the blast” etc.) as correctly expressing
the Indian attitude towards Alexander's invasion. Itis difficult to
reconcile this statement with the author’s detailed account (pp. 39-42)
of the sturdy fight put. up by the republican peoples of the Punjab
against the mighty invader. While describing the extent of cession
of territory by. Seleucus to Candragupta (p. 60), the. author , would
have done well to consider the criticism of the late Vincent’. Smith’s
view by W..W, Tarnin his recently published work The Greeks in
Bactria and India. In describing “‘the. traditional framework of
Ancient Indian polity into which thé Maurya empire had necessari-_
ly to fit, itself’’, the author observes (p. 77). that ‘‘Ancient India
was built up as a vast rural. democracy,” and again (p.: 84) ,that
“the ancient Hindu monarchy was a limited. monarchy under the

eee aS NG

2 ce SORE IT eee

110 REVIEWS OF BOOKS

very conception of the State’. The value of these somewhat
hasty generalisations has been discussed by the present reviewer in
another place (Beginnings of Indian Historiography and other Essays,
pp. 135-144). The author renders ( pp. 86-87, 121) rajaka of
Agoka’s inscriptions, rasfriya of Rudrad&man’s Girnar inscription and
rdstramukha and rastrapdla of Kautilya’s Arthasdstra as ‘provincial
Governor.” As the present reviewer has sought to prove elsewhere
(op. cit,, pp. 62-67), these dignitaries were definitely of lower
rank than the governors of provinces. On p. 154, the author
quotes a statement of Megasthenes (in Diodorus’ version) to the
effect that “‘husbandmen pay a land-tribute to the king besides pay-
ing a fourth part of the produce of the soil.’”’ But unhappily he is
completely silent about Megasthenes’ account in the alternative version
of Strabo, viz. that husbandmen till the land on condition of receiv-
ing one-fourth of the produce. An exhaustive discussion of the
problem presented by these somewhat contradictory statements has
been attempted by the present reviewer in another place ( Hindu
Revenue System, pp. 167-171). On the page last quoted (p, 154),
bali of Kautilya’s Arthagastra is incorrectly translated as ‘a general
land-tax,’ the correct rendering being an agricultural cess. The panel
of judges in Kautilya’s Arthagdstra is said (p. 244) to consist of “‘six
judges, three who are specialists in the law and three amdtyas.” The
correct translation, according to Ganapati Sastri’ s explanation, would
be ‘three judges of the rank of amatya’ The author's tendency to
omit important references, e.g. to the Candragupta Basti at Sravana
Belgola (p. 65), to the Mahabharata passage giving the full comple-
ment of an army (p. 269) and to the Golakhpur hoard of silver punch-
marked coins (p. 345) cannot but be regarded as very unfortunate, as
also his neglect to refer to the views of previous scholars on important
topics such as the significance of the references to bhaga and bali in
Agoka’s Rummindei inscription (p. 155). |
The Vedic nishka, according to the author (p. 340), stands for a
coin, but it might as well mean a metallic ingot. The author quotes
(pp. 347-349) Allan for the statement that two classes of silver punch-
marked coins ba his classes If and VI) were ‘the coins of the
Maurya empire’. Allan’s view, however, has been rendered out of
date by the discoveries of fresh hoards of these two classes of coins
on the Taxila site, of which the respective dates are given asc. 317
B.C. and c. 248 B.C. We know now that Allan’s class V1 coins are
pre-Mauryan, while his class Il coins are of the Mauryan times..
In describing the art of this period (p. 358/.), the ‘author is
ungr countably silent. about the architecture of Candragupta’s

OE EE Rg eee AP ai =

lS, > REP ROSE

REVIEWS OF BOOKS IIt

imperial palace at Pataliputra described by the Greek writers and the
excavation of its ruins by the late Dr. D. B. Spooner. On the
contrary, the author lists a series of eleven colossal stone statues
which he confidently says (p. 359) ‘‘are admittedly pre-Aéokan and
perhaps pre-Mauryan”. But apart from the fact that none of the
reputed authorities has so far traced them beyond the Maurya period
we have to remember that a recent writer has given good grounds for
pushing their date to the times of the Bharhut Stipa or thereabout
(See Nihar-Ranjan Ray, Maurya and Sunga Ari, p. 48}.),

The book is enriched with two plates illustrating what the author
calls ‘typical Maurya punch-marked coins.’? But as they comprise
a miscellaneous assortment of bent bar silver coins (now generally
held to be pre-Mauryan) and punch-marked silver coins of different
varieties (of which one has been just shown to be pre-Mauryan), the
accuracy of the author's nomenclature: may very much be doubted.
It is again unfortunate that the author fails to give any reference to the
coin-types of his plates. The value of the book would have been
enhanced by the inclusion of one or two historical maps, the want of
which cannot but be deeply regretted.

, U. N. Ghoshal.

J
“

Endowment of Chinese Cultural Scholarships by the -
Government of China at the Calcutta University

To encourage the study by foreign nationals of Chinese language,
literature, history and culture, the Ministry of Education of the
National Government of China endowed last year a series of five
scholarships ‘each tenable in the under-mentioned Uhniversities:
(1) University of Chicago, (2) University of Columbia, (3)
Harvard University, (4) Yale University, (5) Michigan University,
(6) Princeton University, (7) Oxford University, (8) London
University, (9) University of Calcutta, (10) Visva-Bharati
University. The Syndicate of the Calcutta University, while grate-
fully accepting this .generous offer, has recently appointed four
scholars whose names with the subjects of their research are mention-
ed below: :

Ajit Ranjan Bhattacharyya ... Taoism and “Indian Thought
Dr. Anukul Chandra Banerji ...Some Aspects of Buddhist Culture
} from Chinese Sources
Krishnalal Chatterji ...National Movement in Modern China
_Jinananda Bhikkhu ...Mission . Activities between China
and Greater India

~” Progress of Indological Scholarship in France

Through the kindness of Mlle. Suzanne Karpeles, General Secre-
tary of The Buddhist Institute and Curator of the Royal Library
of Cambodia, who reached Calcutta in January last, we are ina
position to announce a number of important publications by French
scholars in recent times. Professor L. Renou has published two
works on Sanskrit grammar: seer nee grammaticale du Sanskrit
(three volumes) and La Durghatavrtti— Saranadeva ‘Text and
French translation, (vols. 1-4 already. ite vol. 5 in the Press).
Other works undertaken by the same scholar. are: Sankarabhasya
in French translation (vol. | in the Press), (ii) Kavya-mimdarsa in
French translation (in the Press), (iii) Litérature sanscrite répertoire
alphabétique (alphabetical index of Sanskrit literature) (already
published), (iv) Manual des Etudes indiennes (vol, Lin the Press).

Recently Professor Jean Filliozat has bey. 7 phaking important.

EERAAALOD VU TN DAWN abe ORR ANP ED AENIE EER ALN ANH RAN Ne <n

contributions to the study of Indian “medicine. His works include

| Magie et médicine Paris 1945; La formation de la médicine indienne

(in the Press); and Les doctrines essentielle de l’Ayurveda et la
médicine grecque (in the Press). Other works from his pen are
Bibliothéque nationale. Catalogue du fonds Sanscrit (manuscrits),
(Ist fascicule) Paris 1941, and L’Inde Classique, Manuel des etudes
indiennes (avec M. Renou), vol. |. (in the Press). The field of Indian
archaeology is going to be enriched by a translation of the edicts of
Agoka from the pen of Professor Jules Bloch. As regards Pali
studies mention may be made of the forthcoming publication of
an edition de luxe of the ‘Digha Nikaya, Suttas 1-13; (Pali text
established by the Tipitaka Commission of the Buddhist Institute
of Cambodia, French translation by Jules Bloch, Jean Filliozat and
L. Renou) under the auspices of the Institut de Civilisation
Indienne of Paris University. In the sphere of Outer India, the
place of honour belongs to the work called La vielle route de V’Inde.
de Bactres d Taxila (Part l already published. Part Il in the Press)
by Professor A. Foucher, forming the long-expected Volume 1 of

- the Mémoires de la Délégation frangaise en Afghanistan. We note,

also with interest that the posthumous work .of the late lamented >
J. Hackin will be published in a joint English and French edition

with the aid, of Warburg Institute ‘of London. Mention may be

made in this connection of Professor Filliozat’s work Fragments de.
Textes Koutchéens de médicine et de magic... apie F
Among works on Art and Archaeology of south-east Asia special
mention may be made of L’Art Khmer, les étapes de son évolution
by the late lamented Gilberte de Coral Remusat (1940). Two other
works by the same scholar on Khmer decoration and the fantastic
animals of the Far East are going to be published posthumously.
In South-east Asia the French School of the Far East was able, in
spite of the difficulties of the Great War, to publish two volumes of
te Bulletin, namely, BEFEO, tome sli. Fasc. 1-2, (Hanoi 1941 and
1942), Ibid, vol xlii (Hanoi 1943), ;
A very important work by George Coedés called Histoire An-
cienne des Etats Hindouisés d’Extréme-Orient was published from
Hanoi in 1944. We have lastly to mention a work on the Compara-
tive Architecture of India and the Far East by Henri Marchal, of
which vol. | was.published in 1944 and vol. 2 is in the Press.

Learned Societies in France

To the kindness of Mlle. Suzanne Karpeles we also owe the
following information about the present condition of the learned
societies in France dealing with Indology and connected topics.

The Société Asiatique of Paris, thanks to its energetic President,
the Iate Professor Paul Pelliot, was able to continue its activities
throughout the period of German occupation. It held its monthly

sessions as usual and brought out the Journal Asiatigue, although.

provisionally under the changed title. of Mélanges Asiatiques. At
the Sorbonne, at the L’Ecole des Langues Orientales, at the
Collége du France, the courses relating to India and Indian expan-
sion in the Asiatic world were continued without interruption.

At the l’Ecole du Louvre the courses of lectures connected with
the Chair of Indianism comprised during the four years of German
occupation the following topics: (1) Indian architecture, (2) Buddhist
‘and Brahmanical sculptures of Ancient India, (3) Buddhist and
Brahmanical sculptures of Indo-China and Insulindia, of Tibet,
Afghanistan; and Central Asia. During the session 1945-46 the
programme of lectures has been arranged to cover the arts influenced
by India, viz. those of. Campa, Java, Central Asia, Tibet, China
and Japan. M.. Philippe Stern is to take up the important course
on Campa.- His great work L’Art du Campa (ancien Annam) et
son évolution was published secretly from Toulouse in 1943. .

The Musée Guimet, which was closed since Ist sepiemben 1939,
is gradually re-opening its halls to the public, the priority for
removal of precious collections from their places of safety having
been given to the Musée du Louvre. It is a great relief to learn that
the entire collection of the Musée Guimet has been preserved intact
almost by a miracle.

Exhibition of Afghanistan antiquities at the
, Calcutta University _

[Mr. Pievaninend Ghosh, M.A,, P.R.S.; Curator, Asutosh Museum
of Indian Art has sent us, at our request, the-following report on
‘the exhibition of Buddhist and Moslem antiquities of Afghanistan
; held i in the Asutosh Museum, Calcutta University in January 1946,
‘under the auspices of Mr. Ahmad Ali Kohzad, Director of the Kabul
Museum. The Managing Committee of the Greater India Society takes

AFGHANISTAN ANTIQUITIES AT CALCUTTA UNIVERSITY 115

this opportunity to join with Calcutta University in thanking Mr.
Kohzad and the Afghan Government for making it possible to arrange
this exhibition. |

“Indians have forgotten that Atghaniethain once formed part and
parcel of [ndia proper. As an important province of the Maurya
Empire, as the seat of the Indo-Bactrian and Kushan dynasties and
later of the Shahi kings, Afghanisthan continued to be an integral
part of India for centuries together till it was overrun by the Muslim
conquerors. Even in the Mughal period, as a forntier province it was
a hot bone of contention between the Mughal Emperors of Delhi
and the Persians.

“Significantly enough, Mr. Ahmed Al Kohzad, the Head of the
Afghan Mission, who recently came to Calcutta in connection with
the Bi-centenary Celebrations of Sir William Jones at the Royal
Asiatic Society of Bengal, said that the ancient name of Afghanisthan
was Ariyana. It is well known that in those far off days Jalalabad
used to be known as Nagarhara, Begram (80 miles north of Kabul) as
Kapiga, all typical Sanskrit names. Even now the entire country is
dotted with ancient ruins of monumental sculptures and Buddhist
stiipas, which were noted by the eminent Chinese pilgrim Huen-
Tsang in the 7th century A. D. Some of. these stiipas in the Kabul
Valley have been unearthed by a French Archaeological Mission with
remarkable results.

“The Afghan Mission brought deus Torte them a fair and represen-
tative collection of art and antiquities of ancient and mediaeval
Afghanisthan, now preserved in the Central Museum of Kabul. A
small but very interesting exhibition, displaying the objects which
have never been seen in India before, was organised at the Asutosh
Museum of Indian Art, University of Calcutta. Although it remained
on view from the [5th to 19th January only, it aroused keen interest
among students, educationists and art-lovers as evinced by the ‘eager
crowds of people.

“Illustrating the Islamic as pails as as Bee hlg tic periods’ the
collection consisting of about 100 exhibits could be divided into speci-
mens of art objects representing three epochs of art in Afghanisthan.
The first consisted of Buddhist stucco. figures from Hadda, discovered
by M. Hackin, belonging to the 2nd and 3rd centuries A. D. They
were undoubtedly the finest products of the Gandhara school of art,
as Hadda had been geographically. and- artistically the. heart of
ancient Gandhara. Some of the heads of Buddha .and age nthne
often painted were distinguished by: rare, charm and. delicacy. : re
represented ethnic types, scarcely different from those prevailing now ae

116 EDITORIAL NOTES

in modern Afghanisthan. A unique marble image of Siiryya, the Sun-
god attracted considerable attention in the exhibition. It was dated
about the 5th century A. D. but on stylistic grounds should be placed
earlier. In any case, aesthetically and iconographically it was an
intriguing piece.

“‘Of the metal objects, the Hellenistic bronzes from Begram, show-
ing Hercules and other Greek classical figures, of about the beginning
of the Christian era, illustrated the earliest phase of Gandhara art.

‘‘The second group consisting of bronzes from Ghazni exhibited
here, showed for the first time to connoisseurs that the art of bronze
casting in the Islamic period (I|th-I3th centuries A. D.) had attained
its highest point at Ghazni.

**The third group of the collection aetlee the beautiful manus-
cripts containing brilliant miniatures from the Timurid period of Herat.
The illuminated pages were resplendent with the calligraphy and
painting of some of the greatest masters of mediaeval Afghanisthan.
Of the 35 manuscripts some related to the Timurnamah, the Bustan of
Sadi, the Diwan of Hafiz, the Khamseh of Nizami and prayers of the
4th Caliph. A few paintings from the Akbarnamah, envisaging the
best traits of the Jahangir school of Mughal Painting, were not the
least important exhibits of the Section.

’ “We are indeed thankful to the Government of Afghanisthan for
providing us the rare opportunities of understanding the dominant
role played by Afghanisthan in the field of art and renewing the age-

long cultural contact between India and Afghanisthan.”’

D. P. Ghosh

Editorial Notes

The Managing Committee of the Grater India Society conveys its
most sincere thanks to Dr. B. C. Law, the well-known Buddhist
scholar. and_ philanthropist for his kind donation of Rs. 1200/- in aid

of the publication of the Society’s Journal. Dr. B. C. Law has .

further encouraged the Society by kindly agreeing to become a

- member of its Managing Committee with effect from the last year.
#* Pao i et Sa sel

. The Managing Committee of the Society. is very thankful to Messrs.

G. Basu & Co. (Incorporated Accountants and Auditors), Calcutta for

the trouble they have taken in auditing the Society’s accounts for the
years mk aes in = 1 honorary Capacity. ;

ener

EDITORIAL. NOTES: 117

The earnest thanks of the Committee are due to Dr. N,N. Law,”
one of the foundation members of the Society, for his making the
annual donation of Rs. 100/- for the current year. ,

Sn a a +

Dr. B. Ch. Chhabra, Officiating Government Epigraphist for India,
has kindly sent us an English rendering of a letter received by him
from Dr. J. Ph. Vogel who wrote it on the 10th November 1945 from
his home address near Leiden.. We quote in translation the following
extracts from this letter with Dr. Chhabra’s permission :—

eactt You may have already learnt that a rumour about my
death was unfounded. Three years ago my brother J. Th. Vogel
died and an announcement of his death in the papers has possibly
been the cause of this misunderstanding. Even in America an
obituary notice has appeared.........

“The Kern Institute has also remained intact, though in the
month of December last vear (1944) some bombs exploded quite near
the building. But luckily not a single book has been lost or damaged.
The Institute could gladly resume ‘its activities but for the want of —
coal and paper.’ (Sd.) J. Ph, Vogel.

“I still regularly read Hindi with students and hope to publish
a Dutch translation of Prem Chand’s Sapt Sara] ”’ )

The letter speaks for itself. While sincerely apologising to the
veteran scholar for the premature publication of his obituary notice

in the last number of our Journal, we welcome with great satisfaction

the news that he is hale and hearty after the terrible years of the
Great War. We wish him many years of strenuous literary activity
in the future. We take this opportunity of expressing our sense of
high relief at the fortunate escape of the. Kern Institute from the
ravages of the war- We wish the Institute a long continuance of its
useful careeer. Meanwhile we extend our cordial welcome to the
latest number of the Annual Bibliography of Indian Archaeology
published by the Kern Institute, copies of which have just reached

India.

Select Contents of Oriental Journals

Bulletin of the School of Oriental and African Studies,
Vol. xi, Part 2 (1945)
Bailey, H, W —The Khotan Dhammapada.

Thotnas, F. W —Some Notes on Central~Asiafi Kharosthi Documents
{1 Document No. 66}: |. Hinajha etc.;2. The dynastic appelea-
tien Vijaya; 3, Source and date of No. 661; 4. Persons named
in No. 661, 5, Language and script of No. 661 ; 6. Some parti-

cular words. |], Piro, Pirova, Pirovala. Hl. Bumnime, Bhoti,
Avasama, IV Si Ipoga, V. Pata Patta.

Journal of the Ceylon Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society,
- | Vol. XXXV, part 2, 1945.

Paranavitana, S.—Brahmi parcehons in Sinhalese verse.

The Jaina Antiquary, Vol. ix, No. 2. 1943,
cresiye e, A.N.~—On the latest Deperede of Jaina and Buddhist Studies.

¥ ed and: a pbiaed oy i ce ‘Sela s at She Calcutta Oriental Press, Ltd.,
, ne om Penchanan ‘Ghosh eas: Caleutra,

