Diattzeaoy (S00)

Original from

Digitized by Google UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
» Google

Driginal from

UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
Sir Marc Aurel Stein Memorial Number—Part I

° ™e Ds
JOURNAL uel
G19
OF THE van

GREATER INDIA SOCIETY ”""

Vou. XI . JANUARY: 1944 “No. 1

‘EDITED BY
U. N. GHOSHAL

Articles: Pace
In Memoriam—The late Sir M. A. Stein (Dr. N. P. Chakravarti) ...
The Colophon of the Jataka-stava (Prof. H. W. Bailey)... vs tor
The term Agiéala in two Kharosthi Inscriptions .
(F. Burrow) a oe we oe 3
Negapatam and Theravada Buddhism in South India
(Dr. S. Paranavitana) ... ve . oe 7
; The Tamil land and the Eastern Colonies
i (Prof. K. A. Nilakanta Sastri) ... 7 ve 1. 26

bu Geographical Notes on the Kurram Valley
1 (Dr. V. S. Agrawala) ... * 29
Background of Sufism in Indian Environment
(M. L. Ray Chaudhury) . on
Editorial Notes : ry

t Published by—
THE GREATER INDIA SOCIETY, CALCUTTA

: Agents outside Indian

Greater India Society (Established 1927)
Aims and Objects

1. To organise the study of Indian Culture in Greater India (i.e.
Serindia, India Minor, Indo-China and Insulindia) as well as in China,
Korea, Japan and other countries of Asia.

2. To arrange for publication of the Its of researches into the
history of India’s spiritual and cultural relations with the outside world.

3. To create an interest in the tory of Greater India and
connected problems among the students in the schools, colleges, and
Universities of India by instituting a systematic study of those subjects
and to take proper steps to stimulate the same.

4. To popularise the knowledge of Greater India by organising
meetings, lantern lectures, exhibitions and conferences.

Membership Rules

1. The annual subscription payable by members is Rs. 12/- only.
Members are entitled to receive the publications of the Society at
concession rates and copies of the Journal of the Society free of cost.

2. Resident members may have access to the Society's collection
of books, pamphlets and periodicals etc. on application either to
the Honorary Secretary of the Society or the Librarian. Calcutta
University. The Society’s collection is housed, by arrangement with
the Calcutta University authorities, in the University Library.

Officers and Members of the Managing Committee,
Greater India Society, 1944

President—Vacant.

Vice-Presidents—Rao Bahadur K.N. Dikshit, M.A., O. C. Gangoly,
Esq., Dr. R. E. Mortimer Wheeler, D.Litt.

Hony. Secretary—Dr. U. N. Ghoshal, M.A,, Ph.D.

Hony. Jt. Secretary—Dr. Ki s Nag, M.A.. D.Litt, (Paris.)

Other Members of the Committee—Dr. Narendra Nath Law, M.A..
Ph.D., Prof. Suniti Kumar Chatterjee, M.A., D.Litt., (Lond,);
Dr. Prabodh Chandra Bagchi, M.A., D.Litt., (Paris); Dr.
Nalinaksha Dutt, M.A., Ph.D., D.Litt. (London.) ; Mm. Vidhu-
sekhara Bhattacharyya; Dr. Nihar Ranjan Ray, M.A., Ph.D.,
D.Litt., (Leiden); Dr. Jitendranath Banerjea, M.A., Ph.D.;
T.N. Ramachandran, Esq., M.A.

JOURNAL OF THE GREATER INDIA SOCIETY
Published twice a year, in January and July. Annual Subscrip-

Google
Original from

Google UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

Digit

Google
JOURNAL
OF THE

GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

Vout. XI January, 1944 No. 1

Sir M. A, Stein
By Dr, N. P. CHAKRAVARTI

Marc Aurel Stein was born at Budapest, Hungaty, on the 26th
of November 1862. He was ason of M. Nicholas and Anna Stein.
Nicholas Stein, who was a merchant in Zombar and Budapest, had
his #on educated in his early years in the public schools of Budapest
and Dresden. After finishing his early education, young Marc Aurel
joined the Universities of Vienna, Leipzig and T&bingen, where he
studied during the years 1879-85, the classical languages and antiquities
of India and Iran. He was a pupil of Professor Johann Georg Biihlet
among other well known Orientalists in Germany at the time. After
taking his Doctorate of Philosophy in 1883, he came to England and ©
carried on research work at Oxford and London on old Petsian philo-
sophy and early Indian history during the years 1885-87. Later he
cartied on further researches in Oriental languages before coming to
India in 1888 when he was appointed both the Principal of the
Oriental College at Lahore,and the Registrar of the Panjab University,
which combined post he held for eleven years, up to 1899. It wae
during this period that Stein visited the valley of Kashmir with a
view to obtain possession of the valuable Codex Archetipus of the
Rajatarangini, a chronicle of the rulers of Kashmur written by the
Kashmirian Pandit Kalhaga in 1148. This valuable manuscript, which
was undoubtedly copied in the latter half of the seventeenth century
by the Kashmirian scholar Ratna Kantha, formed the basis of Stein's
accredited edition of this most valuable work. This particular
manuscript also contained marginal notes on the details of the topogra-
phy of Kashmir in addition to various readings and cottections made
by four different hands. He was not, however, satisfied with ptoduc-
ing the first trustworthy edition of this work, but later on published,

Google
2 N. P. CHAKRAVARTI

in two volumes, a translation of the whole work in addition to a very
critical study of the chronology of the rulers of Kashmir and detailed
notes on the text as well as the topography of the valley of Kashmir,
in the study of which the marginal notes in his manuscript as well as
his repeated visits to Kashmir in the course of several years were a
very valuable help.

While at Lahore, in January 1898, Stein undertook an archaeological
tour with the Buner Field Forces under the command of General
Blood and explored the archaeological sites in the Buner area which
formed a part of the ancient country of Udyana. During one of his
visits to Kashmir, Stein also catalogued 5000 Sanskrit manuscripts in
the Raghunatha temple library at Jammu. In 1899, he joined the
Indian Educational Service and went to Calcutta as the Principal of
the Calcutta Madrasa. Soon after his appointment to Government
service, he proceeded in 1901 on a year's journey in connection with
his first long exploration tour in Chinese Turkestan on which part of
Central Asia the eyes of all the archaeological students of the world
were focussed at the time. The discovery of a very important birch-
bark script in the neighbourhood of Kucha, which came into the
possession of Col. Bower when he was in Kucha, and which subse-
quently found its way to India, had already created a sensation among
the Indologists, as this happened to be the earliest manuscript (4th
century A.D.) written in an Indian script and language discovered up
tothat time. The earliest manuscript known before this discovery
formed the isolated palm-leaves, which found their way to Japan
through China and are now preserved in the Horiuji monastery in
Japan. Besides this, there was a discovery in Khotan of another
birch-bark manuscript written in Kharosthi characters and Indian
languages, which was discovered by a French ion sent to Tibet
in 1892 under the leadership of Dutreuil de Rhins. Stein’s exploration
on this occasion was confined to the southern portion of Chinese
Turkestan, mostly in the province of Khotan and the results of-this
expedition were incorporated in his two volumes of Ancient Khotan
published at Oxford in 1907. He discovered here among other objects
of antiquarian interest, hundreds of documents in Indian, Chinese
and Tibetan scripts and languages which have thrown quite a new light
on the civilization, prominently Indian, which flourished in ancient
Turkestan from the third or fourth century to the 9th century of the
Christian era. The International Archaeological Congress held in 1902
at Paris recognised the importance of Stein's expedition and this led to
the foundation of a series of subsequent exploration by German,
Russian and French Scho}: In 1901-02 Stein was awarded the Back

Google
SIR M. A. STEIN 3

grant by the Royal Geographical Society for his geographical explora-
tion in the Eastern portion of Lob-nor and the Kuen-luen range. In
1902 he was appointed Inspector of Schools in the Panjab and was
deputed to England for the purpose of studying the scientific results
of the journey undertaken on behalf of the Geographical Society
and a personal narrative of this journey appeared in 1903. On
his return to India in 1904, he was appointed the Inspector General
of Education and Archaeological Surveyor for N. W. F. P. and
Baluchistan. While holding this post Stein explored ‘many historical
and important sites located in inaccessible places across the Frontier
including the most interesting site of Mahaban

In 1906 Sir Aurel undertook, under the orders of the Government
of India, his second Central Asian expedition. On this occasion he
went further to the East, to Khotan, and from there right up to the
Northern extremity across the Taklamakan desert. During this
expedition he particularly studied the topography of the ancient routes
between India and Western Asia and the Far East. The most
important discovery of this exploration was made by Stein in the
district of Tun-huang. Here he found the western portion of the
famous Chinese wall which was built in ancient times as a defence
against the invasion of the Huns. But the most astounding discovery
made by him was a series of artificial caves containing about 500
cells of various dimensions, which are popularly known to-day as
the caves of the Thousand Buddhas. One of these caves which was
found walled. up, was opened by chance in 1900. There was found
a big collection of manuscripts and hundreds of fine paintings on
silk which had been hidden away in the eleventh century together
with other relics and kept safe from the hands of enemies till chance
discovery brought them to light once again. The manuscripts were
examined and collected partly by Sir Aurel Stein and partly by M.
Pelliot, the French Sinologist, who visited Turkestan in 1906-8, the
rest being taken to Peking under orders of the Chinese Government.
Results of this exploration have been embodied by Sir Aurel in the
five magnificent volumes of Serindia published in 1921.

In order to undertake more detailed explorations of the sites
already casually visited or altogether left out during his expedition of
1906, and also with a view to extend his explorations further to
the East and North, Sir Aurel undertook a third expedition to Central
Asia in the summer of 1913. On this occasion he s! from the
south and proceeded eastward as far as Kan-chou, visiting on his
way the sites of antiquarian interest in the neighbourhood of Khotan,
Niya and Tun-huang. He then crossed the desert of Pei Shan from

Google
4 N. P. CHAKRAVARTI

south-east to north-west, and on his way to Kashgar examined the
sites of Idikut Shahri, the ancient capital of Turfan in the 7th and 8th
centuries A. .D., and also Lou-lan, Kucha, Akshu, among other
similar sites, which were already visited but not carefully examined
by German scholars, In July 1915 his journey led him across the
Russian Pamirs and the mountains to the north of the Oxus and on
his return journey to India he d Samarkand, Khorasan and a
portion of Seiatan, the ancient Sakasthdna or the land of the Sak
In thie tast-mentioned place he discovered on a rocky hill, the remains
of a large Buddhist sanctuary, the first of its kind traced in Iranian
soil. Here, behind later masonry, he found fresco-pajntings of a
later period and also some wall paintings in Hellenistic style.
The details of this expedition have already appeared in the
four volumes of Innermost Asia published in 1928 which isethe
last monumental work of Sir Aurel on his Central Asian expeditions,
Before Sir Aurel undertook his third Central Asian tour, his services
were transferred to the Archaeological Survey in 1910. After
joining the Archaeological Department till his retirement in 1929, he
was actively connected with various expeditions which he undertook
on behalf of the Department not only in Central Asia and Persia as
mentioned above, but also in other countries in the neighbourhood
of India, which were at one time or the other the seat of Indian
culture. But his zeal for exploration did not cease with his retire-
ment. On the other hand, he spent all his spare time in visiting
some part of the country or other and on many occasions at his own
expense. Between the years 192628 when he was still in the
Department, he had undertaken exploration tours in Upper Swat,
Baluchistan and Makran, and later on in 1932-33 in South Per
and in 1935-36 in Western Iran. In response to his valuable services
in exploration, honours were showered on him by various learned
societies in Europe. He was awarded the gold medal of the Royal
Geographical Society in’ 1909 and also the Petrie Medal in 1928." He
was the recipient of the Royal Asiatic Society's Gold Medal in
1932, Huxley Medal in 1934 and the Gold Medal of the Society of
Antiquaries in 1935. In 1910 the British Government conferred the
title of C. 1. E. on him and two years later he was made a K. C. I. E.
Even during the last few years of his life Sir Aurel was as actively
engaged in exploration tours ashe was during his early years. A
few years ago he had another journey from the coast of the Arabian
Sea up to the hill ranges of the north-east extremity of Makran. In
1941 and 1942 when he was in his eightieth year, he carried out an
exploration tour along the dry bed of the Ghaggar or Hakra, the

Google
SIR M. A. STEIN 5

ancient river Sarasvati of the Vedic texts, in the deserts of Bikaner
and Bahawalpur States. In course of this tour he traversed 9 distance
of nearly 300 miles and discovered a large number of new sites dating
from the chalcolithic to the Kushan period. From careful topo-
graphical observations Sir Aurel was able to trace another dry bed of
a river, which was once a branch of the Sutlej which joined the bed
of Hakra a little above the Fort Abbas near the border of Bahawalpur
State. As traces of chalcolithi 8 were found only below this
junction, Sir Aurel was of opinion that the prehistoric occupation
bad been abandoned when this branch of the Sutlej which carried
abundant water from the great snow-fed river to the Ghaggar had
ceased to ow towards the close of the chalcolithic period. These
researches have a direct bearing also on the problem of desiccation
in Asia which has its wider interest for students of both history and
geography. In addition to thjs important exploration, Sir Aurel
undertook several shorter ones in the Gilgit area where he found
a number of Buddbi es containing inscriptions and figures of
Buddhas and Bodhisattvas carved on rocks and also several important
inscriptions which for the first time showed that this part was under
abranch of the ancient Shahi rulers of Kabul. All his researches
in this connection were to be published in the Memoirs of the
Archaeological Survey of India and though he had submitted part of
his manuseripts for publication, its printing had to be stopped as a
measure of paper economy and he could not live to see these volumes
through the press. It is hoped that the Archaeological Department
will be ina position to isaue them as soon as conditions become
more favourable. He did not also live to see another of his monu-
mental works—his portfolio on the mural paintings in the Central
Asian Antiquities Museum which is already in an advanced stage of
printing. From the time when Sir Aurel was a comparatively young
man it was his ambition to do some sound Archaeological work in
Afghanistan. This chance at last came to him, but fate decided
otherwise. Ina letter to Mr.C.E. A. W. Oldham which he wrote
from Srinagar and an extract from which has recently been published
inthe Geographical Journal, Sir Aurel wrote: ‘‘I am just about to
start for a preliminary visit to Kabul, in the hope of securing the
chance desired since my boyhood for work in Ariana Antiqua.
Approval from New Delhi has been received for this fresh attempt,
initiated by a Harvard friend, now U. S. minister at Kabul. How it
will succeed the gods of Kapisa might know.”” But alas the gods of
Kapisa desired otherwise! They apparently did not want to part
with a scholar whose ambition was to visit them for years, once he

Google
6 N. P, CHAKRAVARTI

was in their territory. On the 26th of October 1943 he passed away
peacefully in the house of Mr. Cornelius van H. Engert and was buried
in the Christian Cemetery at Kabul on October 29.

Sir Aurel Stein could talk Persian, Pushto, Kashmiri and Sanskrit
with equal fluency and made friends wherever he went, be it in the
biggest society of the civilized world or among the half civilized natives
of Central Asia or the frontier of India. With him passes a man
who adopted archaeology as a vocation and not a profession and
his life was so full of it that he preferred to remain a bachelor all
his life. Nor did he, in his death, forsake his favourite archaeology
for he left all that he possessed in the furtherance of its cause.

A List of Principal Publications of Sir Marc Aurel Stein

|. Kalhana’s Rajatarangini—Translated with an Introduction, Com-
mentary and Appendices. Vols. 1-11. 1900. .

2. Preliminary Report on a Journey of Archaeological and Topo-
graphical Exploration in Chinese Turkestan, London, 1901.

3. Sand-Buried Ruins of Khotan—Personal narrative of a Journey
of archaeological and geographical exploration in Chinese
Turkestan, 1903,

4. Ancient Khotan—Detailed Report of Archaeological Explorations
in Chinese Turkestan, Vols. 1—1] Oxford, 1907.

5. Ruins of Desert Cathay—Personal narrative of explorations in
Central Asia and Westernmost China. With illustrations etc.
Vols. | & 11, London, 1912.

6. Third Journey of Exploration in Central Asia, 1913-16. 1917.

7. Serindia, being a detailed Report of Explorations in Central Asia
and Westernmost China, carried out and described under the
orders of H.M.’s Indian Government. 5 volumes, Oxford 1921.

8. The Thousand Buddhas, being a description of ancient Buddhist
Paintings from the Cave temples of Tun-Huang on the Western
Frontier of China, with an introductory essay by Laurence
Binyon. 2vols. Text and Plates. 1921.

9. Memoir on maps of Chinese Turkestan and Kansu, from the
surveys made during Sir Aurel Stein’s explorations 1900-1901,
1906-1908, 1913-15, with appendices by Major K. Mason and
Dr. J. De Graff Hunter. Vols. 1 and II. Text and Maps.
Dehra Dun. 1923.

10. Innermost Asia—Detailed Report of Explorations in Central Asia,
Kansu and Eastern Iran. Vols. I-IV. Oxford, 1928.

1. Archaeological Tour in Waziristan and Northern Baluchistan.
1929 (Memoirs, A.S.I. No. 37).

Google
12.

13.

14,

15.

16.

17,

18.

20,
21.
22.
23,
24,
25.

26.

27.

28.

30.

31.

SIR M. A. STEIN 9

An Archaeological Tour in Upper Swat and Adjacent Hill
Tracts. 1930 (Memoirs, A.S.1. No. 42).

An Archaeological Tour in Gedrosia. 1931 (Memoirs, A.S.I.
No. 43).

Old Routes of Western Iran, (Macmillan & Co., Ltd., 1940).

Zur Geschichte der Qahis von Kabul, Stuttgart, 1893.

Detailed Report on an Archaeological Tour with the Buner Field
Force, 1898. (Ind. Ant., Vol. XXVIII).

Notes on New Inscriptions discovered by Major Deane (Reprint ©
from the Journal of the Asiatic Society of Bengal, Vol. LXVII,
Pt. I, No. 1, 1898),

Report of the Archaeological Survey work in the North-West
Frontier Province and Baluchistan for the period from January
2nd 1904 to March 31st 1905. 1905 & 1911-12.

Mountain Panoramas from the Pamirs and Kwen Lun, London,
1908.

Explorations in Central Asia 1906-8 (Reprint from Geographical
Journal for July and September 1909),

Expedition in Central Asia, 1915 (Reprint from the Geographical
Journal, October 1915).

Desert crossing of Heuan-Tsang 630 A.D. 1919 (Reprint from
Geographical Journal for November 1919; also Ind. Ant., Vol. 4).

Marco Polo’s Account of a Mongol inroad into Kashmir, 1919.
(Reprint from the Geographical Journal for Aug. 1919).

Explorations in the Lop Desert. (Reprint from the Geographical
Journal for Jan. 1920).

Hatim’s Tales—Kashmiri stories and songs recorded with the
assistance of Pandit Govind Kaul by Sir Aurel Stein. 1923.
Innermost Asia—Its Geography as a Factor in History (Reprint

from the Geographical Journal for May and June 1925).

Alexander’s Campaign on the Indian North-West Frontier
(Reprint from Geographical Journal for Nov. and December
1927).

On Alexander's Track to the Indus—Personal Narrative of Ex-
plorations on the North-West Frontier of India. 1929.

On Ancient Central Asian tracks, London, 1933.

A Survey of Ancient sites along the ‘‘lost” Sarasvati River
(Reprint from the Geographical Journal, Vol. XCIX, No. 4,
April 1942).

On Alexander's route into Gedrosia : An Archaeological tour
in Las Bela (Reprint from the Geographical Journal, Vol. Cll,
Nos. 5,6, Nov.-Dec. 1943).

Google
8 N. P. CHAKRAVARTI

32. Old routes of Western Iran. Narrative of an Archaeological
journey carried out and recorded, antiquities examined,
described and illustrated with the assistance of Fred. H.
Andrews, London, 1940.

33. An archaeological tour in Ancient Persia ( Reprint from Iraq,
Vol. III, No- 2).

34, Notes on Alexander’s crossing of the Tigris and the Battle of
Arbela (Reprint from the Geographical Journal, Vol. C, No. 4
Oct. 1942).

35. Surveys on the Roman Frontier in Iraq and Trans-Jordan
(Reprint from the Geographical Journal, Vol. XCV, No. 6
June 1940).

36. Note on Remains of the Roman lines in North-Western Iraq
(Reprint from the Geographical Journal, Vol. XCII,- No. 1
July 1938).

37. The Ancient Trade routes past Hatra and its Roman posts
(Reprint from the Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society, Oct-
1941). .

38. Zoroastrian Deities on Indo-Sythian coins (Reprint from the
Oriental and Babylonian Record, August 1887. London 1887).

39. Zoroastrian Deities on Indo-Sythian coins (Reprint from the
Indian Antiquary, Vol. XVII, pt. CCVII with plates. Bombay
1888). .

40. An Archaeological Journey in Western Iran (Reprint from the
Geographical Journal, Vol. XCII, No. 4, Oct. 1938):

41. Archaeological reconnaissances in North-Western India and
South-Eastern Iran with illustrations, plates of antiques, plans
and maps from original surveys, London, 1937.

42. Collection of Tibetan Documents from Chinese Turkestan. Notes

- by A. H. Francke (Reprint from the Journal of the Royal
Asiatic Society of Great Britain and Ireland for Jan. 1914).

43. Memoir of Maps illustrating the Ancient Geography of Kashmir.
(Journal of the Asiatic Society of Bengal, Extra No. 2 for 1899.)

44. On Ancient tracks past the Pamirs (Reprint from the Himalayan
Journal, Vol. IV, 1932).

45. Kashmiri-English Dictionary, 2 Vols.

46. Notes on the life and Labours of Captain Anthony Troyer
(Reprint from the Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society, Bengal,
Letters, Vol. VI, No. 1, 1940).

47, In memoriam-Pandit Kaul (Reprint from the preface to Hatim’s
Tales—Kashmir Stories and Songs, London, 1923).

48. The Castle of Lohara (Indian Antiquary, Vol. XXVI).

Google
49,

50.

St.

52.
53.
54,
55.
56.
57.

58.
59.

61.

62.

63.

65.

67.

THE COLOPHON OF THE JATAKA-STAVA 9

Preliminary Note on an Archaeological Tour on the Indus,
(Indian Antiquary, Vol. XXX).

Notes on an Archaeological Tour in South Bihar and Hazaribagh.
Indian Antiquary, Vol. XXX (1901).

Archaeological Notes during Explorations in Central Asia in
1906-08. (with preface by Editor) Indian Antiquary, Vols.
XXXVIII and XXXIX.

A Third Journey of Exploration in Central Asia, 1913-16 Indian
Antiquary, Vol. XLVI.

Excavations at Sahri Bahlol—Annual Report, Archaeological
Survey of India, 1911-12

Exploration of the Mahaban range Ibid 1904-05
Identification of Parihasapura. * 1915-16
A Note on Avantipura ” 1913-14
A Note on Aornos Rock. ” 1904-05

and 1924-25
A Note on Baijnath Temple. ” 1905-06
A Note on Kashmir monuments. ” 1915-16
A Note on Mount Banj. 7 1904-05

A Note on Rajagril ” 1905-06

For Reports as Officer on Special Duty in the Archaeological
Department see Annual Reports, Archaeological Survey of
India 1921-28.

Notes on Inscriptions from Udyana presented by Major Deane.
J. R. A. S., 1898,

Sanskrit Deed of Sale concerning a Kashmirian Mahabharata Ms.,
JR. A. S.5 1900.

Notes on a Journey from Hunza, J. R. A. S. 1901.

On Colonel Deane’s Inscribed Stones from Swat. J. R. A. S. 1903.

Early Judaeo-Persian Document from Khotan, J. R. A. S., 1903.

Google
The Colophon of the Jataka-stava
By H. W. Bantry

We are indebted to Sir M. Aurel Stein for so many discoveries
concerning the history of Chinese Turkestan and I have myself been
so fortunate in working at the Khotanese manuscripts of his collec-
tion that I am pleased indeed to offer a small tribute to his memory
and can only regret that the present time has divorced me from my
books and hence reduced the offering to so little.

Among the many manuscripts that we owe to Sir Aurel Stein is
one containing the text of the Khotanese Jataka-stava. A facsimile
‘of this manuscript has been published in Codices Khotanenses (Co-
penhagen, 1938), The introductory verses: dedicate the poem to
the Khotanese king Sri Viéa Stra. The following note refers only
to the colophon which is found on folio 39 written in cursive
Brahmi script. This reads as follows
im dagkara kiram hivi aga
ta pidai biysista brriyi
jsa cakavattai é
upatta-vasesa
vidirii raéi radi bviyeye jsifié prriyaga
hamavi: maiscyi anescyanai bvaiysa jsina hamavi kalpa
is jadi biéa pirmattama ta baiysusti

t<a>s<tam>piifié pyara hiye paysdvye brravara ¢A ttaiha
teainé khariiga ja habrrihu u para dva:
naira kima-hva jsa habrrihi u dvira ripaj

im aéirya gatha vajrrayaunyam jea bisa satva biysistagta
vyarna byehida

aysa tta ca [ca] kimasana byehime thyau madrram  sijasta
baiysiéta vyichime Kymsan

paysavye hvarakya siirai maitrra jsa

Translation

“This Jataka-stava is a book (anga) of the difficult feats of the
Buddha. Teang Kim-San ordered to write (or: condescended to write)

Google 4
THE COLOPHON OF THE JATAKA-STAVA "

for love of Bodhi. In reliance upon the merit of this favourable root,
may the Emperor Sing-tsun possess the position of endless lordship
and a peculiar position, a peculiar rebirth and a peculiar station. At
the present time may the king of the Vajra kingdom enjoy long life.
May he be mighty, endless and long-lived. May all the deeds
accumulated through the age disappear. May he condescend to
attain the supreme Bodhi.

This same merit | share with... «my father... Teang Pi May
his states of life be purified. May my mother Hiimam be long-lived.

This same merit | share with my father’s own brother Tsang
Tig-tein and with sons and daughters.

This same merit I share with my wife Kim-hva, with my daughter
Rapajiva, with my daughter Jvalakya, with my brother the knower
of three Pitakas Sidhyavardhana, with my brother the knower of the
three Pi Dharmajiiana, with all teachers and householders of the
Vajrayana. May all beings attain to Bodhi according to prophecy.

May I, therefore, Tgang Kim-San, attain swiftly to the le
of the formulee (mantra). May I realise Bodhi. Kim-san.

With my own sister Sirai- ”

A few brief notes will justify thie translation. The name
of thé owner of the manuscript Ca Kimiéani, that is, Tsang Kim-
San, tells us that we are concerned with a member of the distinguish-
ed Tsang family which during most of the T’ang period supplied
hereditary governors to the region of Sa-tgou. The full name is pre-
served in a Chinese Text (Stein MS, Ch. 1.002la) “as #& @& il) Tsang
Kin-gan (older ¢’iang ki?m-san, Karlgren, Analytic Dictionary, 1174,
386, 849), from which we learn also that he was the ambassador
of Yu-tien (Khotan). His name appears in the last line of the colo-
phon, most unexpectedly, in Sogdian script as Kymsan, and can be
seen again in Sogdian script on the end of folio 156 of the Siddha-
sara (facsimile in Codices Khotanenses). The same name has also
been noticed elsewhere in Khotanese’manuscripts. His relationship
to the present colophon is expressed by the ambiguous phrase pasta
pidai: the verb parrud- means either ‘to order’ or ‘to condescend.”

The merit of writing the Jataka-stava is then shared with the
king, his own family and the teachers and laity of the Buddhist
Vajrayana sect. The king, who is styled Cakravarti or emperor, is
given a Chinese epithet Sai tciind which probably corresponds to
the Chinese Buddhist 4 @ 9°ng-tsun ‘sacred and revered’ (from
older iding-tsu°n, Karlgren, loc. cit. 1205, 1112). This epithet is
used elsewhere (see BSOAS. 9. 541) of the Khotanese king Viéa
Darma. The names of his family come next. Ca is Tpang. The

Google -
2 H. W. BAILEY

mother’s name Himam has not been identified. The uncle's name
Khariiga occurs in other Khotanese texts, as in the Staél-Holstein
roll 40, 47 (where the editor read wrongly da,du for ri). The wife's
name Kim-hva is clearly Chinese Kin-xua ‘golden Flower’ (from
older ki?m-x"a, Karlgren, loc. cit. 386,94). The daughter's name

Ripajiva is Indian and is evidently used here in no pejorative sense.

The second daughter's name Jvalakya ‘Brilliant’ is also Indian, but
the .suffix-kya is likely to be Khotanese. The two brothers have
Indian names and both are Tripifakas (ttravilai from a middle Indian

(vajrayanika-), which is familiar also in other Khotanese textes.
sister Siraimaitra was evidently overlooked and her name inserted
later.

Google
The term Agisala in two Kharosthi Inscriptions

By T. Burrow

In the ruins of Shah-ji-ki-Dheri, which have been identified as the
remains of the stdpa and vihdra of Kanishka, a metal relic casket
bearing a Kharosthi inscription was unearthed during excavations in
the year 1909. The inscription was edited with photographs by
Spooner’ and Marshall, and appears as no. Ixxii in Sten Konow's
edition of the Kharogthi Inscriptions.’ In this inscription there occurs
a word agigala which was interpreted by the original editors asa
rendering in Kharogthi letters of the Greek proper name Agesilaus. In
this Konow follows them without any question, as also do general
writers on Indian history‘, as a result of which ‘Agesilaos’ has become
established as a minor historical figure. Nevertheless in spite of thie
practical unanimity, the grounds for finding the Greek name Agesilaos
in this inscription are the slenderest possible, and the reasons for not
accepting the theory are so strong that a serious examination of the
facts leads with practical certainty to its rejection. It is the purpose
of this short article to state briefly the arguments against the current
theory, with the hope that ‘Agesilaos’ may finally be disposed of.

There are two conditions essential if we are going to read a Greek
name in an Indian inscription; firstly that it should be rendered with
reasonable accuracy in the Indian alphabet, and secondly that there
should not be some more obvious Indian interpretation at hand. There
are cases where these conditions are fulfilled. Well-known examples
reference can be made are Heliudora of the Besnagar pillar
inscription’ and Theudora of the Swat relic vase inscription." In
the latter case there is further confirmation in the fact that Theudora
has the Greek title Meridarch. Quite ferent is the case with
agifala. This is not the way one would expect the name Agesilaos

1 ASIAR., 1908—10, pp. 135 ff. 2 JRAS., 1909, pp. 105b ff.

3 CIL., vol. II, pt. i, pp. 135ff.

4 V. A. Smith, Early History of India,* p. 277, referring to “the celebrated
relic casket bearing an image and inscription of Kanishka, whose superin-
tending engineer had tho Greok name of Agesilaos’”; L. do la Vallée Poussin,
D'Inde auc Temps des Mauryas et des Barbares, p. 258, W. W. Tarn, The
Greeks in Bactria and India, pp. 355, 392.

5 Marshall, JRAS., 1909, pp. 1053ff. 6 Konow, CiI., UI, if

Google
14 T. BURROW

to be represented. In the first place the -g-, as Konow observes, is
‘devoid of the usual otiose r- stroke"’ This ‘r- stroke’ is indicative of
a fricative pronunciation of single intervocalic g and in such cases
the transliteration -j- is more convenient than Konow’s -g(r)-. Its
absence quite certainly indicates -gg- which was not of course fri-
catised, and for that reason it possible to distinguish original -g-
from -gg- in Kharogthi inscriptions, even though the alphabet does
not write double consonants. This being the case there is no force
in Konow's suggestion’ that this way of writing indicates a foreign
name. Single g of whatever origin was pronounced as a fricative and
as such represented in writing; in the Kherogthi documents from
Central Asia there are foreign names in plenty, but we always
find in such cases single intervocalic g rendered as fricative ( g-).
Another objection is the following consonant—the palatal -é-. If the
Greek name Agesilaos were being represented, there is no reason
why the dental -s- corresponding to the Greek should not have been
used. Finally the vowels do not correspond very well. It would
have been just as easy in Kharogthi to write agesil-, as agisal-, if
it had been a question of rendering that name.

Turning to the second point, we find even stronger reasons for
disbelieving that agifala is a rendering of a Greek name. In his edition
of the text’ Marshall remarks: ‘The name Agiéala is certainly
non-Indian". Foucher’? is not quite so certain. According to him
agiéala could represent Skt. Agnisala- which he renders ‘one who
Possesses a temple of fire’. This however he regards as a corrup-
tion due to popular etymology of the original Greek name. He
then proceeds to defend the theory with a completely illogical
argument. “‘Pour nous refuser 4 admettre une interprétation aussi
simple, il foudrait rejeter en bloc non seulement toutes les transcrip-
tions indiennes de mots grecs que nous donnent les textes classiques
et le légendes des monnaies, mais encore |’ Heliodore, fils de
Diya (Dion), de l’inscription de Besnagar et le Thaidora (Théodore)
fils de Datis de celle de Koldarra’’. It does not of course follow, if
the explanation of agigala by ‘Agesilaos’ isto be rejected, that all
other Greek names in Indian sources are also to be rejected.

In speaking of Agnigala Foucher practically gives the game away,
except that he still'wants to see in the word a proper name, Such
a name is unlikely and the most natural interpretation of agisala

7 Op. cit, p. 187. 8 Ib. p. 135.
9 JRAS., 1909, p. 1058.
10 L'Art Greco-bouddhique du Gandhéra, M1, p.

Google
THE TERM AGISALA IN TWO KHAROSTHI INSCRIPTIONS 15

appearing in a Kharogthi document is that it corresponds to Skt.
agniéala, Pa. aggisala ‘a hall of fire’. Bearing in mind the fact that
-g- (instead of --, -g(r-) ) represents -gg-, such a conclusion is diffi-
cult to avoid, and it is difficult to see what else the original users
of Kharogthi could have made of it. The agisala has of course
nothing to do with a ‘fire-temple’ as Foucher seems to think, but
was a recognised part of a Buddhist monastery. In the Pali texts
aggisala which the Pali Text Society’s Dictionary renders ‘a heated
hall or refectory’ is mentioned as such an established institution ‘in
the Vinaya-pitaka™ and other works.

‘That being the case, it is not surprising to find mention of it in the
Kharogthi inscriptions which are of predominantly Buddhist content.
As it happens, another Kharogthi inscription has recently turned up
in which the same word is found. This is on a stone lamp found
by Barger and Wright during their journey of exploration in the Swat
Valley in 1938, and now preserved in the Victoria and Albert Museum,
London. Inthe publication dealing with the finds of ‘this expedi-
tion", this inscription is listed and a tentative transcription given :—

Sagami caudisami [ga?da?] agigala [e go? so?}

Although not completely legible, the purport of this inscription is
quite ‘clear. It i tement that the lamp belongs to the community
of Buddhist monks (“‘the Samgha of the Four Quarters”) and further
specifies that it is kept in the fire-hall of the monastery (agiéalae Loc.
S.), In view of the obviousness of this interpretation, it is unlikely that
anyone will want to read the name ‘Agesilaos’ into this text, and
it would be quite arbitrary and inconsitent to understand agiéala as
representing Skt. agnisald in one text, and in the other text a foreign
name.

The interpretation of agifala given here necessitates a re-examina-
tion of the passage in the Kanigka casket inscription in which it
occurs. This passage occurs at the base of the casket and runs as
follows

dasa agigala navakarmi kanegkasa vihare Mahasenasa samgharame

It seems that through haplography navakarmi Kaneskasa has been
written for navakarmi <ka> Kanegkasa, Under the assumption that
agigala meant ‘Agesilaos’ this has been translated : “‘The slave
Agesilaos, the Superintendent of works at the vihara of Kanigka
in the monastery of Mahasena’. Since, however, for the reasons

11 Vinaya-Pifaka, II, 164, 210 ete.
12 Ezcavations in Swat and Explorations in the Orus territories of Afghan
nistan, p. 60 (MAS. no, 64))

Google
16 T. BURROW

given‘above, there is no adequate basis for the rendering ‘Agesilaos’,
a different translation must be given. Interpreting agiéala as Skt.
agnigala, we can construe without difficulty the phrase agifala nava-
karmi <ka>, since a reference to the repairing or rebuilding of an
agniéald is one that we might expect to come across in a Kharogthi
inscription dealing with a Buddhist monastery. This interpretation
leaves the sentence without a proper name, and there is no compelling
to believe that it should have contained one, especially if we inter-
pret dasa at the béginning of the sentence not as a singular, but
as aplural. This we almost certainly should do, since the regular
form of the nominative singular in these inscriptions is either -o
or-e Sucha form of the nominative singular is found in this
inscription in deyadharme of the preceding line. That being the
case, the whole sentence should be translated: “The slaves who
rebuilt the agnisala in the vihara of Kanigka, in the monastery
of Mahasena.””

A final note is necessary on the word navakarmika. This means
properly ‘renewer, repairer, rebuilder’, and not merely ‘architect’
in general. This has an important bearing on the date of the casket,
since a reference to the rebuilding of a portion of Kanigka’s vihara
suggests that ithad been in existence for some time—long enough
in fact for parte of it to have fallen into disrepair. If this is the
case, the casket may well be dated something like a hundred years
after Kanigka, and not, as is generally assumed, be contemporaneous

with his reign.

Goc gle
Negapatam and Theravada Buddhism in South India

By Dr. S. PaRANayiTANA

The two Leiden grants’ of the Cola Emperors Rajaraja | and Kulot-
tunga I respectively, are well-known to students of Indian history
and antiquities. From these two documents we learn that, in the
eleventh century, Buddhism still had its adherents at the port of Nega-
patam on the south-eastern sea-board of India, and that the followers
of this faith in Further India took an interest in building shrines at
that place and making endowments for their maintenance. The re-
mains of the Cidamanivarma-vihara of Negapatam, built by the
Sailendra king of Kataha and Srivigaya, as recorded in the larger
Leiden grant, were preserved as late as 1867 and might be still stand-
ing, had their historical significance been appreciated then as it would
be now.? A large number of Buddhist bronzes, many of them ins-
cribed, were discovered at Negapatam some years ago, indicating the
existence of a considerable Buddhist populstion at this place at the
date to which these bronzes can be ascribed, i.e. about the IIth or
12th century. Tamil literature has also preserved evidence of the con-
nection of Buddhists with Negapatam. Mr K. V. Subrahmanya
Aiyar, the learned editor of the Leiden plates, states “In the tradi-
tional account of Tirumangani-Alvar, who is described in the Guru-
parampara as a feudatory of the Cola king of his day, it is stated
that he once went to Nagapattanam, got inside the Buddhist temple
at the place, carried away the ‘gold image that was enshrined within
it and melting the same, utilised the amount in building walls and
other structures in the Ranganatha temple at Srirahgam. If there is
any truth in this, it would show that long prior to the construction of
Ciidamanivarma-vihara, i.e. before the beginning of the 9th century,
Negapatam was renowned as a Buddhist centre and had in it a
Bauddha monument. We do not know if the vihdra that was erected
in the days of Rajaraja | was a new one or was only the renewal of
the old monument.”

The Pali literature of Ceylon has preserved some references to
Negapatam which prove that the connection of Buddhism with that

1 Edited by K. V. Subrahmanya Aiyar in Epigraphia Indica, Vol. XXII,

pp. 213-281.
2 For the circumstances in which these Buddhist remains were demolished,

see Indian Antiquary, Vol. VIT, p. 224.
3 Ep. Ind, Vol, XXII, pp. 230-31.

3

Google
18 S$. PARANAVITANA.

port goes back to a very early date and that the place remained a
centre of Buddhist activities when that religion had ceased to count
adherents in many other parts of the Tamil land where it was once
flourishing. These references, which, so far as my knowledge goes,
have not received the attention of students of Indian history, may be
of some interest to readers of this Journal.

The Saddhamma-sangaha, in its account of the life and activities
of Buddhaghosa, the greatest of Pali commentators, states that it was
from Nagapattana that he took ship to come to the island of Ceylon
from India.* According to Ceylon tradition, Buddhaghosa was a native
of North India, and after his conversion to Buddhism, he was entrust-
ed by his teacher with the task of translating into Pali the exegetical
literature which then existed in the Sinhalese language. The account
of Buddhaghosa and his literary acti given in the Saddhamma-
sangaha agrees in the main with that of the Mahavarnsa (Chap. 37,
vv. 215-246) but gives additional detail The author of the Saddham-
ma-sangaha, Dhammakitti, was a native of Siam, but he received his
ordination in Ceylon and studied in that island under Dhammakitti
Mahasami, who flourished in the middle of the fourteenth century.*
The statement recorded in the Saddhamma-sangaha may therefore
be taken as the tradition which was current in Ceylon during the
fourteenth century. The story of Buddhaghosa is full of improbabi-
lities, but the mention of Nagapattana as the port from which he took
ship to come to this island must have been at least due to the fact
that it was well-known to the Buddhists of Ceylon as a place from
where religious teachers from India started on their sea-voyage to
the island.

Negapatam is also connected with Dhammapala who, as a com-
mentator of Pali texts, occupies a place second only to that of the
great Buddhaghosa. In the colophons of his numerous works, it is
stated that Dhammapala was a resident of Bad. ittha-vihara. The
Sasanavarhsa, which is a work produced in Burma not more than a

4 Evam vutte dyasmé Buddhaghosoppitisomanassappatto hutva upajjha-
yam ca dhikku-samghati ca vandita dpucchitea anugamanena Nagapattanam
sampapuni. Atha Sakko devaraja haritakiphallaf ca lekhanifi ca tassa datvd
sakatthdnam eva gato....Tato so névam abhirahitva ete. Journal of the Pali
Text Society for 1890, p. 68.

5 See Bulletin de I’Ecole Francaise d’ Ertréme Orient, Vol. XV, pp. 39-
46 and my paper ‘Religious Intercourse between Ceylon and Siam in the
13th-15th centuries’ in the Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society, Ceylon Branch,
Vol. XXXII, pp. 204-205.

Google
NEGAPATAM AND THERAVADA BUDDHISM, 19

hundred years ago, states that this Badaratittha was in the Tamil
country not far from the island of Ceylon.‘ The passage stating that
Dhammapila resided at Badaratittha, occuring at the end of manus-
cripts of his works, may not be Dhammapala’s own but might have
been added by a later copyist. In the colophons to his works which
can, without doubt, be attributed to Dhammapala himself, there is
only one reference to any place he resided in, and that occurs at the
close of his commentary to the Nettippakarana. Therein he refers
to himself as ‘residing in the Dhammasoka-maharaja-vihara at Naga-
pattena, the place where the Good Law crossed over (saddhamma-
vataratthana).”

The date of the Pali commentator Dhammapila is not definitely
known, but most Pali scholars are inclined to believe that he flouri-
shed not long after Buddhaghosa, that is to say, about the sixth cen-
tury. Rhys Davids’ identification of this Pali commentator with the
Dharmapala of Kajfici, mentioned by Hieun Tsiang, is open to grave
doubts and he may have flourished at a date considerably later than
that to which he is ascribed by a consensus of opinion among Pali
scholars, However this may be, Dhammepala’s connection with
Negapatam is beyond doubt. It is also interesting to note that the
vihara at Negapatam wherein Dhammapala resided, was named after
the great Buddhist emperor Aéoka. The name was probably due to
the belief of the local Buddhists that Aéoka himself was instrumental
in the introduction of Buddhism to the country round Negapatam.
It may even be that the faithful of the place ascribed the foundation
of this religious establishment to the great Buddhist emperor.”

The epithet saddhammdvataratthana applied to Negapatam is
highly significant. It was most probably due to the fact that Buddhist
missionaries who left the shores of India to propagate the faith abroad
took ship at tl ort. The geographical position of Negapatam
must have made it take a great part in the commercial and cultural
intercourse which developed in ancient times between South India
and the countries of Further In: and the Indonesian islands. The

6 Sasanavamsa, P.T.S. Edition, p. 33.
7 Saddhamméwattaratthane pattane Naga-savhaye
Dhammasoka-maharaja-vihdre vasata maya.
The Nettippakarana with extracts from Dhammapila's Commentary, edited
by E, Hardy, P.T.8. London, 1902, p. 249.
8 Hieun Tsiang, in his account of South Indian lands, mentions a number
of places which had stapas ascribed to Asoka, See Beal, Buddhist Records of
the Western World, Vol. I, pp. 227, 230 and 231.

Google
20 S. PARANAVITANA

barks which left this port laden with merchandise must have fre-
quently carried Buddhist teachers whose names are now forgotten,
but who doubtless played a great part in the diffusion of Indian cul-
ture and religion throughout the countries of Eastern Asia. The
statement in the Saddhammasangaha that Buddhaghosa started from
Negapatam on his journey to Ceylon thus becomes highly probable.”
It also would explain why the Buddhist rulers of Kataha took such
pains to erect and endow shrines at Negapatam. Possibly they
considered that the introduction of Buddhism into their country was
due to the activities of religious teachers who went there from Nega-
patam and the place was accordingly held in veneration.

The Pali literature of Ceylon throws some light on the subsequent
history of the Cudamani-varma-vihara built at Negapatam by the
Sailendra king. At the end of the Pali grammar Rapasiddhi, its
author, Buddhappiya, has included a stanza in which he gives us
information about himself. In it Buddhappiya tells us that he was
also known as Dipankara, that his teacher was the famous Ananda-
thera, like unto a banner in Tambapanni (Ceylon), that he gained
renown as the light of the Tamil land and that he caused the religion
(of the Buddha) to shine fourth by being the superior of two monastic
ments, one of which was called Baladicca (Skt. Baladitya).’°
The Sinhalese interverbal paraphrase of the Ripasiddhi, which
seems to have been written not long after the time of Buddhappiya—
it is quoted as an authority in a work of the I5th century—supplies
the name of the other monastery over which Buddhappiya presided.
In the printed edition of this text, as well as in the manuscripts, the
name of this vihdra is given as Cidamanikarma.’! This is clearly a
scribal error, for ‘‘Cidmanikarma” is meaningless as the name of a
vihdra. As Buddhappiya’s connection with the Tamil country is
testified to by himself in the Rapasiddhi and as he is often given the

9 Hioun Tsiang and I-tsing seem to refer to Nagapatjanam ag the place
of embarkation from South India to Ceylon, See Beal, Buddhist Records of the
Western World, Vol. II, p. 283, a.

10 Vikhyatananda-theravhaya-vara-gurunam Tambappanniddhajanam Sisso
Dipamkarakhyo Damila-vasumaticdipa-laddhappakaso Balddicead ivasadvitayam.
adhivasam sasanam jotayat yo So'yam Buddhappiyavho yati imam-ujukam
Riapassiddhim akasi.

11 Baladitya nam vasaya adi-éabdayen gat Cidamanikaryna (varma)-vihdraya
wana me devdsayehi vesemin. The Rapasiddhi, with the Sinhalese paraphrase,
has been edited and published in Sinhalese characters by Pandit Dehigaspe
Paiifiasira, Colombo, 1927.

Google
NEGAPATAM AND THERAVADA BUDDHISM an

epithet of ‘Coliya’ in Ceylon writings, and as a Buddhist vihdra called
Cudamani-varma is known to have existed in the Cola country,
we can safely correct the form of this name occurring in manus-
cripte: to Cudamani-varma-vihara. The word varma would not
have been known to the ordinary copyist in Ceylon, but the word
karma was well-known to him. The error can thus be accounted
for very easily. We may therefore conclude that the second of the
two monasteries of which Buddhappiya was the superior was the
same as that founded by Maravijayottuigavarman, king of Kataha and
Srivigaya and endowed at the request of that foreign potentate by the
Cola emperor Rajaraja 1, and later by Kulottuiga— Cola. Neither
the Rapasiddhi nor its Sinhalese gloss has any reference to Negapatam,
and we are therefore not ina position to say whether the other con-
vent, named Baladitya, was situated at that place. It was evidently
the more important of the two establishments, for Buddhappiya made
special mention of it while he left the identity of the other to be
explained by his exegetist. Like the Cidamanivarma Vibara and
Dhammasoka Vihara of Negapatam, Baladicca Vihara, too, appears
to have been named after an important personage. The most famous
Baladitya of Buddhist history was the king of Magadha who, accord-
ing to Hieun Tsiang, was the founder of the celebrated vihara of
Nalanda but we cannot assert that a monastic establishment in the
Cola country was named after him.

The connection of Buddhappiya-thera with Negapatam seems
beyond doubt. This thera occupies a position of considerable impor-
tance in the history of Theravada Buddhism. Besides the Ripasiddhi,
he was also the author of a Pali poem called the Pajjamadhu."* As
will be seen from what follows, he seems to have made a commend-
able effort to resuscitate the waning fortunes of Buddhism in South
India. It will therefore be of some interest for the history of Buddhism
in South India to ascertain the time during which this religious teacher
flourished. The consensus of opinion among scholars in Ceylon is
that Buddhappiya flourished in the thirteenth century during the
reign of Parakramabahu Il."* This date, however, seems to be too
late by about a century.

Attention may be drawn in this connection to a passage occurring
in the Vimativinodani,"* an exegetical work on the Vinaya written

12, Edited in the J.P.7.8. for 1887, pp. 1.16.

13 See Malalasckara, The Pali Literature of Ceylon, London, 1928, pp. 2908.

14 Edited and published in Sinhalese characters by Somiloka Tissa ‘Thera,
Laksman Press, Colombo, 1935.

Google 7 oe cuican
22 S. PARANAVITANA

in differing (from the Theravada), had the story of
Kundalakesi done into the form of a Tamil poem," for the purpose
of exhibiting the methods of refuting other doctrines. He instructed
the poet who composed the poem and had it composed inserting
in that composition various perverted views, confusing the mind with
fallacious arguments, such as (I) that this act of drinking intoxicat-
ing liquors is sinful only in the case of drinking the same intentionally
(2) that the knowledge of the Omniscient One is not capable of
perceiving in a particularised manner the knowledgable objects,
which are infinite by differences of time and space; if the knowledg-
able objects are limited by knowledge, it would lead to the absurdity
of disavowing the infiniteness of knowledgable objects, therefore

. the Omniscient One is capable of knowing objects only in their
general character, such as their evanascence, (3) such conventions as
puggala (personality) etc., are separate entities like name and form,
etc, in the categories of ultimates. This heretical view was intro-
duced to the doctrines of Vibhejj lins on account of that poem and
continued to remain so for a long time. It was eradicated at a later
period by the great thera Buddhappiya,” who established the pure
religion here by tearing asunder the net of false views, both external
and internal. Nevertheless, certain persons of perverted mind again
raised their heads relying on the statement in the explanatory work
on the Vinaya, called the Saratthadipani, that the drinking of liquor
is sinful only when it ie intentional’’.'*

15 This Buddhist poom, like the Manimekalai, was included among the five
mahakdvyas of the Tamil language. It is no longer extant and is known only
from quotations in other literary works.

16. Pubbe kira imasmim Damila-ratthe koci bhinnaladdhiko Nagaseno nama
thero Kundalakesi-vatthum  paravada-mathanasnayadassanattham — Damila-
kabba-rapena karento imam surapdnassa janitea va pivane akusala-nayam
anfam ca desakdlddi-bhedena anantam' pi Meyyam sabbaiinutaxtinam salak-
Khana-vasen'eva Aatum na sakkoti, Adyena pariechinnattena feyyassa anan-
tatta-hanippasanigato, wniccddi-sdmania-lakkhana-vasen’eva Adtum sakkoti’ti
ca paramattha-dhammesu ndma-ripan'ti adi-bhedo viya puggalddirsammuti’pi
visum vatthurbhedo cvd’ti ca evamddikam bahunt viparitattha-nayam kabba-
Karassa’kavino upadisitea tasmim pabandhe karandbhasehi satim sammohetva
pabandhapesi,...,.Tam ca kabbam nissdya imam bhinna-laddhikam matam

Google
NEGAPATAM AND THERAVADA BUDDHISM 23

It is clear from this reference that some time before Buddhappiya’
reform of the South Indian Theravada community, the question
whether it is a sin even if one tasted liquor unwittingly aroused
considerable discussion among its members. Those who maintained
that no sin is committed if there is no intention of drinking liquor
appealed to the Tamil poem Kundalakesi in support of their position.
Buddhappiya condemned this view as heretical but after some time
it was revived by an appeal to the authority of the Saratthadipani-
The wording of the passage in the Vimativinodani suggests that the
decision on this point given the Sdratthadipani is posterior to
Buddhappiya. Saratthadipani is an extensive sub-commentary to the
Vinaya written by the learned thera named Sariputra who flourished in
Ceylon during the reign of Parakramabahu I (1153-1186). Buddhappiya
Thera may therefore be taken, on the authority of the Vimativinodani,
to have flourished before, or contemporaneously with, Sariputra.

It may however be argued that such an inference need not neces-
sarily be drawn from the reference in the Vimativinodani, quoted
above. The Sdrathadipani might already been written before the
time of Buddhappiya’s reform, but the South Indian Theravadins
who did not object to the taking of liquor unwittingly, might not
have known it at that time and became aware of the evidence
supporting their contention contained in that auth
date.

But there is further evidence of a decisive nature which proves
that Buddhappiya flourished in the twelfth and not in the thirteenth
century. The Pali grammar Padasddhana refers to Buddhappiya
Rapasiddhi and criticises some of its views. '™ The Padasadhana
based on the grammatical system of Moggallana who in the vut
composed by himself to elucidate his own aphorisms, states that thi
work was composed in the reign of Parakramabahu I. Moggallana
was also one of the leading members of the synod convened by P

at some later

idha vibhajjavadi-mate sammissam ciram pavatthittha, Tam pana pacchd
Acariya Buddhappiya-mahatherena bahirabbhantarikam ditthijalam vighatetva
idha parisuddham sasanam patitthapentena _sodhitam’pi Saratthadipaniya
Vinayatikdya surapanassa sacittakapakkhe yeva cittam akusalam ti samatthana-
vacanam nissdya kehici vipallattha-cittehi puna ukkhitta-siram jatam (Vimti-
vinodani, op. cit, pp. 100-101)

17 Padasidhana, with Sinhalese paraphrase, edited by Dhammananda
Thera, Colombo 1932, p. 67.

18 James d’Alvis, A Descriptive Catalogue of Sanskrit, Pali and Sinhalese
Literary Works, Vol. I, p. 185.

Google
24 S. PARANAVITANA.

kramabahu for the purpose of purifying and uniting the Buddhist church
in Ceylon, early in his reign.’ To occupy such a position he must
have been a very senior thera at that time. The grammarian
Moggllana (Vyarini Mugalan) is referred to as a high dignitary of the
Church in the Tamil inscription which the Velaikkaras set up at
Polonnaruva some years before the accession of Parakramabahu.””

The author of the Padasadhana, by name Piyadassi, was a
pupil of Moggallana.”? as stated by himeelf in the colophon to his
work. That work, therefore, must have been composed within the
reign of Parakramabahu, or a few years after his death at the latest.
The Rapasiddhi, quoted and criticised in the Padasédhana, must be
earlier in date and its author Buddhappiya seems to have beena
younger contemporary of Moggallana.

Scholars who ascribe Buddhappiya to the thirteenth century do
so relying mainly on their identification of his teacher Ananda with
the thera of that name who was a pupil of Medhamkara of Udumbara-
gir, the hierarch who induced Parakramabah I! (1236-1269) to re-
organise the Buddhist Church in Ceylon.” This Ananda Thera of the
thirteenth century was the author of a Sinhalese interverbal transla-
tion (sanne) to the Padasadhana in which, as we have noted above,
Buddhappiya is criticised. It is, therefore, impossible that he was
the teacher of Buddhappiya.

In this connection, an inscription of Sundaramahadevi, queen of
Vikramabahu | (1116-1137), found at Polonnaruva,”” merits considera
tion. The record is too fragmentary for us to decide what its purport
was, but it opens with a Pali stanza eulogising a thera named Ananda.
The inscription praises Ananda as a person of high itual attain-
ments, calls him a banner raised aloft in the land of Lanka and
informs us that he was instrumental in the establishment of the
Buddhist religion in the Cola country besides having had contacts
with the sangha of the Tambarattha.** Buddhappiya, in referring to
his teacher calls him a ‘banner unto the island of Ceylon’ almost the

rect

19 Mahavamsa, Chap. 78, v. 9 and Epigraphia Zeylanica, Vol. IT, p. 249.
20 Epigraphia Zeylanica, Vol. II, p. 249 ff.
21 Padasddhana, op. cit, pp. 301-302.
22 Malalasckara, The Pali Literature of Ceylon, p. 211.
23° Epigraphia Zeylanica, Vol. IV, pp. 67-72.
24 Aanda-nama-vidito jayatiddhipatto
Taika-talussita-dhajo pavaro yatiso
Yo Tamba-rattha-yati...théra-bhito
Colesu sasana-patitthitako’si dhiro,

Google :
NEGAPATAM AND THERAVADA BUDDHISM 25

very words by which the inscription refers to Ananda-thera. As
there is convincing proof that Buddhappiya lived in the twelfth
century, the Ananda-thera of the Polonnaruva inscription could very
well have been his teacher. ;

In my edition of the inscription referred to above, I have given
reasons for the identification of Tamba-rattha mentioned therein with
the country round Ligor (Nakhon Si Thammarat, the ancient Sri
Dharmmaraja Nagara) in the Malay Peninsula. The authority of the
Sailendra kings, one of whom built a vihdra at Negapatam in South
India, extended to the Malaya Peninsula. If, therefore, the teacher
of Buddhappiya had connections with Ligor, his position as the
head of the vihara established in South India by one of the Sailendra
kings can be accounted for. It seems, therefore, that Buddhappiya
became the head of the Cudamani-varma-vihara in succession to his
teacher, Ananda, in whose foot-steps he also followed in his activities
for the propagation of Buddhism in the Cola country.

From what we know of the Sailendra kings from their inscriptions,
they seem to have been followers of the Mahayana form of Buddhism,
but there is no evidence to show to what school of Buddhism the
vihdra built at Negapatam by Maravijayattuiiga-varma originally
belonged. From the foregoing, however, we find this vihdra under
the control of Theravadins in the twelfth century. If the Sailendra
kings who founded this vihara were Mahayanists, its passing over to
the Theravadins is worthy of note,

The Theravada seems to have been in the ascendant at Nakhon
Si Thammarat (Sti Dharmaraja Nagara) in the thirteenth century.
About the same time or somewhat earlier we find Theravada supplant-
ing the Mahayana in Siam and Cambodia. The passing of the vihara
at Negapatam to the control of the Theravadins who had intimate
connections with Ceylon may also be taken as a part of this religious
movement of which very few historical details are known to us at
present.

Google
The Tamil land and the Eastern Colonies
By Pror. K. A. Nitakanra Sastat

Tamil influences on the early script, languge, architecture and so
‘on of the Malaya peninsula and archipelago have been traced by
several scholars; but references to these lands in early Tamil litera-
ture are somehow not so frequent as one would expect. One deci-
dedly early reference occurs in the Patfinappalai where, among the
imports into the city of Puhar or Kaveripattinam is included Kala-
gattu Gkkamum i.e. produce from Kalagam, which has been inter-
preted to mean Kadaram, modern Kedah as Qoedés demonstrated in
his celebrated paper La Royaume de (rivijaya'. The equation of
Kadaram with Kalagam is found in the geographical section of the
Divakaram, the earliest lexicon in the Tamil language now accessi-
ble to us. The Pattinappalai is a poem of the time of Caja Karikala,
and cannot be placed much later than the end of the second century
A.D. or the beginning of the third.

It is the aim of this short note to invite attention to another of
these all too rare early Tamil texts mentioning the eastern colonies
and their trade connections with South India. It occurs in Canto
XIV (11. 106-10) of the Silappadikaram, and reads:

Sagirum parappin
vanga-vittattut-Tondiydr-itta
vagilun-dugilum-avamum-vasamun-
dogu-karuppiramufi-jumandudan vanda
kondalodu pugundu.

The literal meaning of these lines is as follows: ‘Having entered
together with the east wind that came laden with (the aroma) of aloe,
silks, sandal, spices, and camphor put by the residents of Tondi on
board a fleet of tall roomy ships.’ The place said to be entered is the
city of Madura, an inland city; that is why the poet is careful to
say that the person who entered the city did so with the eastern wind
(kondal); and the thought of the eastern wind calls up the image of
an armada of merchantmen laden with the cargo of precious articles
specified in lines 3 and 4 of the citation. It will be noticed that the
articles are all of them special products of the eastern lands on -which
we have always depended for a supply of them, as the present war
condititions have sharply reminded us.

1 BEFEO., xviii, 6, pp. 19 ff.

Google
THE TAMIL LAND AND THE EASTERN COLONIES 27

There are two commentaries available on this text. The earlier
commentary (anonymous) correctly interprets the text without intro-
ducing a single extraneous idea, and leaves it there; we may note,
however, that the word vasam (spices) is explained as comprising
takkdlam (cubeb), Jatikkay (nutmeg) and other substances. “Takké-
lam’ would doubtless recall to the reader's mind the learned dis-
cussion of this word by Sylvain Léviin his essay on Ptolémée, Le
Niddesa, et la Brhatkatha in Etudes Asiatiques. The later annotator,
Adiyarkkunallar who wrote sometime about the fourteenth century
A.D. makes a greater display of the knowledge and beliefs of his
time. The whole comment is too long for reproduction, and we shall
notice only the points that concern our enquiry. He makes it clear
that Tondi was a town in the east—a natural inference from the men-
tion of Kondal in the text, as kondal is a special name for the eastern
wind. Then he says that the kings of Tondi sent the articles men-
tioned as tribute to the ruler of Madura —an intrusive statement for
which there is no warrant in the neutral words Tondiyor—itta, placed
in ships by those of Tondi—of the text of the poem. We should not
hesitate to reject this suggestion of a political relation between the
Pandyan kingdom and Tondi of the East. The note on the list of
articles is of great interest'as bringing before us traces of a consi-
derable technical lore of which'the sources are unknown to us. Of
agil (aloe wood), for instance, he mentions three varieties—arumana-
van. takkoli, kidaravan, obviously getting their names from Ramai
Takkdla, and Kidara (Kadara) very interesting from our point of
view. Again, among the many varieties of tugil (silks) noticed is
Kalagam i.e. produced in Kalagam or Kadaram. Among the varie-
ties of dram (sandal) occurs haricandana, famous in early Javanese
epigraphy as the material out of which images of Agastya were made
atone time. Like his predecessor whom he closely follows generally,
Adiyarkkunallar includes takkélam and Jatikkdy, cubeb and nutmeg,
with many other substances like lavangam under vasam. Of cam-
phor he seems to mention no fewer than fourteen kinds, Cinacciidam
—China camphor—among them.

Finally, he crowns the whole by saying that ‘Tondiyor’ stands
for “S5lakulattor’ descendants of the Cola family. This comment has
gone far to misguide modern students, and obscure the significance
of the text for a long time. For the late Dr. Swaminatha Aiyer added
a note to it saying that we may infer from this that there wasa
Tondi on the east coast of South India which was different from the
celebrated Tondi of the Ceras on the west coast”, and subject to the

2 ‘Tyndis of the Periplus and Ptolemy.

Google
2B K. A. NILAKANTA SASTRI

rule of the Colas. All these remarks have been reproduced in their
entirety by Mr. V. R. Ramachandra Dike in his translation of the
‘Silappadikaram, and he goes one step further and lentifies Tondi of
thie text with the homonymous place on the coast of the Ramnad
district ; he recognises, however, that most of the articles mentioned
came from the Archipelago islands in the east.”

The history of error is not out interest, and one is tempted to
‘ask how did the learned Adiyarkkunallar come to gloss ‘Tondiyor”
with ‘s5lakulattér’? Was he thinking of the naval expeditions of
the Colas against the empire of Srivijaya of which the memory might
have been still alive in his time? If that was so, did the Colas leave
behind a branch of the royal family to hold sway over their
fresh conquests in these lands? But of all this we have little evidence
from other sources. Or was the annotator only confusing ‘Tondiyor’
with ‘Tondaiyar’ and basing his gloss on the story in the Manimekalai
in which a Tondaiyan is born out of the liaison between a Cola prince
from Negapatam and a Naga princess Pilivali by name? However
that may be, he does not say anything on the location of Ton It is
placed on the east coast and more precisely identified with Tondi on
the Ramnad coast—a place which rose into some importance in the
twelfth century A-D.—by the modern writers cited above. But then,
how are we to explain the fleet of tall roomy ships on which these
precious cargoes are placed by the people of Tondi for their being
carried off by the wind to the Madura coast?

It is clear the Tondi must be some place in the lands colonised
by the people of South India across the seas. We have a Tirunelyéli
in Jaffna, and a Madura island near Java, and other toponymous
identities will easily occur to the student of the subject. At the
moment I am unable to suggest any suitable identification, and it is
my main object to place the facts as they appear to me before scholars
who may not be readers of Tamil but whose co-operation would
be of value in discovering this place.

Ido not believe that the Silappadikaram i
the Patfinappalai; in its present form it has too many words and
features of grammar and prosody that point to a much later date.
The reference in Ki a's Raghuvamésa to winds from doipantara
(Malaya ) laden with the fragrance of cloves is now well known ;*
and I think that the present reference to Tondi and its trade with
the Madura coast is later than the text of Kalidasa by about a
century, if not more.

3 The Silappadikaram or the Lay of the Anklet (1939), p. 204 n. 1.
4 JGIS., Vol. IX, Dvipantara.

an early work like

Google

Geographical Notes on the Kurram Valley
By Dr. V. S. Acrawata

Kurram Valley derives its name from the river Kurram which flows
through it. Fortunately this river finds mention in the Rgveda under
the name of Krumu (%@ ) in the following two verse

So let not Rasa, Krumu or Anitabha, Kub!
you back.

Let not the watery Saray obstruct your ways- With us be
all the bliss Ye give (Rgvada, V. 53. 9).

First with Trstama thou art eager to flow forth with Rasa,
and Susartu, and with Svetya here.

With Kubha; and with these Sindhu! and Mehatnu, thou
seekest in thy: course Krumu and Gomati. (Rgveda,
X. 75. 6).

From the above it appears that these rivers, viz. Tretama, Rasa,
Anitabha, Susartu, Svetya, Kubha, Mehatnu, Krumu and Gomati were
the affluents of the great river Sindhu or Indus meeting it on its right
bank. The tributaries of the Indus on its left bank are mentioned in
a different verse in which the river Sohan flowing through the Rawal-
pindi district is called Sushoma. The Swat river is the same as the
Suvastu of the Mahabharata and the Puranas, but in the Rgveda its
form seems to be Svetya. Kubha is the same as the Kabul, whereas
Krumu is Kurram and Gomati is Gomal.

The Safed-Koh range on the Indo-Afghan border seems to be the
same as the ancient Svetapatha. In the inscriptions found in the
Sanchi Stipas we have reference to a Greek of Svetapatha making
some donations as follows: —

*Setapathiyasa yonasa danam, i. e.. the giftof a Yona (Greek)

resident of Setapatha (Safed-Koh)’ (Monuments of Sanchi by Sir
John Marshall, Vol. I, Inscriptions No. 89 and 475; 308 and 348).

Northern Waziristan through which flows the river Tochi was
visited by the Chinese pilgrim Hiuen Tsang and is referred to by him
under the name Ki-Kiang-na (Watters, Hiuen Tsang’s Travels, Il. 62).
It is the same as Qiquin of early Arab history and it was known in the
Mahabharata as the Kokanada region. The Kokanadas were a people
in the north-west, vanquished by Arjuna in the course of his conquest
(Mbh. Sabhaparavan. ch. XXVII, verse 18), Southern Waziristan
enclosing the Wana valley with its capital at Wana is ancient Vanayu

r Sindhu hold

Google
30 V. S. AGRAWALA

famous all along in Sanskrit literature for ite breed of fine horses.
Bannu east of Waziristan is referred to in Panini’s Agtadhyayi (circa
fifth century B. C.) under the name of Varnu. Hiuen Tsang refers to
Bannu as Phalana and says that the country to the west of Phalana
was Ki-Kiang-na.

In and beyond the northern portion of the N. W. F. Province some
further identifications of names may be suggested e.g. Hindukusa was
known to the ancient Iranians as Uparigyena, i.e. a hillso high as to
the beyond the flight of the eagle. Chitral is ancient Chitraka, also
called Karagakara. The Panjkora is ancient Gauri, referred to by the
Greek writers as the Gouraios. Between the Panjkora and the Indus
flows the river Swat which was the ancient Suvastu. The Swat valley
was known as the Uddiyana country in Buddhist geography. It is
referred to as Urdi (derivative Aurdayani) in the Mahabhagya of
Pataiijali (second century B. C.). A trace of tl found in modem
Udegaon. South of Swat is Malakand whose ancient name was
Malavat. In the same region is Dargai with its ancient name Dargalas.
The great tribe of the Mohmands living to the north of the Kabul river
are mentioned in the Mahabharata and in Panini’s Astadhydyi as
Madhumanta (Panini, IV. 3. 93), The ancient name of the well-known
Afridi Apritah, known from the same source (Panini, Rajanyadi
Group, IV. 2. 53). Charsadda above the junction of the Panjkora
with the Kabul is the region of ancient Pugkalavati occupied by the
people called Pugkalah. Geographically the region of Peshawar was
known as the Gandhara country with its eastern extension upto
Shahdheri. The western capital of Gandhara was at Puskalavati near
Charsadda and the eastern capital at Taks: The river Bara
which flows past Peshawar and joins the Kabul was known in older
days as the Vara (Mbh. Bhigmaparvan, Ch. 1X). In a way the
history of the Kurram region partakes of the general history of the
whole Gandhara region for which there is enough material from the
Vedic times to the historic periods.

Google
Background of Sufism in Indian Environment
By Mr. M. L. Roy CHowpxury

Once in a trance Muhammad is said to have asked his wife Ayesha,
states the author of Kungul Asar il Qidam, ‘Man Anti—who art
thou? Ayesha replied, ““Ana Ayesha"—I am Ayesha. Muhammad
said, “Man Ayesha"—who is Ayesha? Ayesha answered, “‘Ibna-
tus Siddiq'—daughter of Siddig, Prophet's father-in-law, Muhammad
again asked,—"Who is Siddiq?”” Ayesha was now astonished and
replied, “the father-in-Law of Muhammad.” Muhammad repeated,
“Who is Muhammad" >

Now Ayesha remained silent, for she understood that the Prophet
was in another state of existence where the index of life had become
“All is he—Hama Oust’ aig!

And thus Muhammad was the first Sufi of Islam and his stage of
experiences is called the ecstasy—“Hal” or (Watfa)

Ibrahim Bin Adam belonged to the royal family of Balkh. “Forty
scimitars of gold and forty maces of gold were bome in front of him
and behind.” Once on a hunting, he heard a voice, “Awake Ibra-
him, wert thou made for this?”” He left his royal robes and exchanged
them for woolen coats of a shepherd, bade farewell to his kingdom
and lived in a cave near Naysabi for long nine years. He cried out
in agony of his soul, “Oh God, from shame of disobedience to the
glory of submission unto thee.” And Ibrahim was a Sufi, his stage is
called Renunciation— ( &74 )

Shagiq of Balkh resigned himself entirely to the hands of God and
made no effort even to maintain his living, for he must not ask any-
thing; nor engage in a trade, his business was God alone. ‘‘Nine-
tenths of devotion consists in flight from mankind,” ‘said the Shagiq,
and “‘the remaining tenth is in a silence.” And Shagiq was a Sufi;
his stage is silence (zwar )

Rabia, that mystic Rabia was once asked,” do you love God”?

“*Yes""—was her reply.
“Do you hate the Devil?"—was the next query—

She replied, “My love of God leaves me no leisure to hate Devil.”

On another occasion the Prephet appeared before Rabia in a
dream and asked, “Rabia—do you love me?” Rabia answered,
“Oh apostle of God, who does not love thee? But love of God hath

so absorbed me that neither love nor hatred of anything remains in
my heart.”*

Google Inve
32 M. L. ROY CHOWDHURY

And Rabia was a Sufi and her stage was love. (94)

Yet these mystics were not called Sufis when they lived on the
surface of the earth, or the term Sufi did not come into existence till
two hundred years after the Prophet's death. The word “Tasawwuf””
was not mentioned either in “‘Sittiah’” compiled in 392 A.H. or even
in the “Qamus” the standard Arabic Dictionary compiled in 817 AH.
the pious men at the time of the Quran were known as “Muqurrabin’
(neighbours of God), “Abrar” (virtuous men) ““Zuhhad” (pious men);
but there were no “Sufis”” as such, though the root from which the
word has been derived existed in the vocabulary* .

The two hundred years following the death of Muhammad were
characterised by devastating civil wars, relentless military despotise
and hard mechanical piety of the orthodox creed which led to a revet
towards asceticism and quietism amongst hundreds of followers of
the Faith. Wearied and disgusted with the political strifes and in-
security of individual safety, they retired from the things of the world
‘and devoted themselves to things of God. ‘The terror of hell 90
exhaustively and graphically described in the Quran roused in them
‘an intense consciousness of sin which drove them to seek salvation
in ascetic practices and in being sinless. With the quietism was
rather a religion and not a speculative system; and they styled them-
selves Muslims. To them recitation of the Divine names (Zikr) was °
superior to five canonical prayers; and trust in God (Tawakkul) meant
renunciation of personal initiative and volition resigning oneself in

1 The word Sufi is supposed to have been derived from:—

(a) ‘Saf'—meaning woolen, for the learned men wore woolen garments and
lived in caves and monasteries.

(b) ‘Soaaj’ meaning “‘in the direction"—to turn the face to ono direction
and Sufis are those who turn their faces to the direction of God

(0) “‘Suffa”—there was a sect whose members were colibates; they served
Kaba and worshipped God. Tho Sufi camo from tho old “‘sufa” for they were
sincere. “‘Sufa’” means sincerity.

(@ “Swf” ich means “a line—those who form the “first lino” of lovers
of God and their work is called “Tasawwuf.””

(©) “Saf” meaning a coach; during tho time of Muhammad one group of
people came from outside to learn Islam. They were given seats on » “Sofa”
(raised platform) from where they learnt overything. Sufi refers these men.
‘Their “sincere” is called “Tasawwut.”

(©) “Safw” meaning purity” according to Arabic Grammar Rumi and
Hafiz, supported this derivation.

(@) “Sophia”—some claim its Greek origin—Sophia'"—wisdom.

Google VERSIT
BACKGROUND OF SUFISM IN INDIAN ENVIRONMENT 33

God's hands i.,e., in short, with them trust in God meant absence of
activity to the extent of not secking means of livelihood or even not
taking medicine when ill. This attitude of life meaning the withdrawal
of self has been described as quietiem of Islam which soon passed
into mysticism meaning concentration “‘in the inward life of dying
to self and living in God.""** Along with the growth of mysticism,
germs of which had already existed in Islam and in the Prophet's
life, new methods of expression of the mystic became increasingly
frequent through symbolism of Love and Wine side by side. With
this quietistic and devotional growth sprang up a speculative and
pantheistic movement which was more un-Islamic than Islamic, in-
viting sharp comments and fierce opposition of the orthodox.?

The evolution of Sufism up to this point, I mean until the middle
of the 3rd century Hijra, may be called inherently Islamic.

So long there was no fixed process of these quietiste, and devo-
tionaliste developed on the lines of Islamic canons and according to
the mystic Khwaja Khan, the doctrine of Tasauwuf were taught
by songs. Zonmon Al Misri (860 A.D.) was the first to put their
doctrines in form; Juniyad of Bagdad (910 A.D.) to systematise the same
and Abu Bakr Shibli to preach them officially.

Thus far I have developed my subject in such a way as to give
my readers a definite idea that Sufism was a purely Islamic growth.
Nicholson in his famous “History of Ardbic Literature’ traced the
growth of Sufism to the influence of Christianity, Neo-Platonism,
Gnosticism, and Buddhism. E. G. Browne in his still more famous
“Literary History of Persia” tells us that Sufism grew out of conge-
nial soil in the mystic environments of Persia. The theosophical
publications from Adyar on the subject of Sufism in Sindh postulated
that the Hindu Vedanta was the “‘via Illuminativia of Sufism and the
“broken lights” that fell on their paths in India diverted them to
newer paths.

Nicholson says that the early quietists of Islam were influenced by
the Euchite Christians of Syria “who magnified the beauty of cons-
tant prayers, abandoned their all and travelled as poor brethren.”
Biographies of Sufi Saints abound in graphic conversations between
Muslim devotees and Christian cecetics which bear traces of Chris-
tian influence on their life. Nicholson says that the monastic life

2 Abu Bakr Shibli defined Sufism as—As Sufi la Yara Fid darain ma

Allah Ghyar Ullah Sufi does not recognise any one except Allah in both the
worlds.

Abdul Hasan Nuri says—At Tasawwuf Yataraku Kulli hazzin nafsi Sufism
is renunciation of all pleasures of tho body.

5

Google
34 M. L. ROY CHOWDHURY

which has been rigorously prohibited by the Prophet had come into
the Sufi ordination possibly from the proximity of, if not, association
with the Christian monastic orders which the latter took from the
Buddhists. Buddhism flourished in Balkh, Transoxina, Turkestan

* Jong before their incorporation by Islam. It is a fact that the Buddhists
had carried their teachings amongst the Muslims who now came in
touch with them. The legend of Ibrahim which has been quoted
above—a prince of Balkh who one day suddenly cast off his royal
robes and became wandering Sufi, was nothing but a replica of
Gautama’s renunciation of his kingdom. Goldziher in his famous
treatise. on “The Influence of Buddhism upon Islami” writes that the
doctrine of “‘fana’’ (annihilation) is nothing but Buddhist ‘nirvana’
and the system of “stations” on the road thereto bears a che
resemblance to Buddhism. By that time i.,e., between 800 AD.
and 860 A.D. the Greek theosophy flowed into Islam through the
Catholicity of the Abassid Khalifas from the Christian monsteries
of Syria, from the Persian Academy at Jundeshpur in Khurdisthan and
from the Sabians of Haran in Mesopotamia. It is really significant
that Zun nun of Egypt who first worked up the ficating theosophy
‘of Sufism into a system was by birth a Christian, by race a Coptic or
Nubian and by adoption a Muslim. It is equally significant that the
Muta’zzalite rationalism filtered into Islam after it had come in touch
with the Hellenistic ideas through its association with Alexandrian
speculation.

However plausible and learned may be the arguments of those
eminent scholars, | do hold that one need not seek for the origin of
Sufism anywhere beyond Islam. Islam with its stern rigidity, clear
commands. emphatic no-s was very congenial to the growth of Sufism.
From the earliest days of Islam we note an attempt by the Muslim
sages to go beyond the path of every day Islam without completely
breaking away from it; thus psychologically interpreted, the attitude
of the seers of Islam was to find out some sort of sanction from the
Quran, so that they might follow their religious convictions without
much torment of conscience—for Islam would not suffer any departure
—not even by a dot from the orthodox interpretations of the recog-
nised Divines.

Theirs was the attempt to live within Islam, but to think beyond
Islam and act beyond its ritualist code. In short, they continued to
offer lip-service to the established religion while as they progressed,
they modified and softened the dogmas in such a way as to suit their
own spiritual needs. Interpretation of some of the verses of Quranic
revelations were carried to such an extent that “‘Allah” the god of

Google
BACKGROUND OF SUFISM IN INDIAN ENVIRONMENT — 35

warth and mercy was depersonalised and worshipped as an abstract
idea under the title of ““Al-Haq”—the Truth. That this interpretation
did not find favour with the orthodox Ulama is proved by the way in
which they sought to repress the Sufis and rationalists when they tried to
express their attitude of mind in terms of action.

From quietism to mysticism it is not a long run, and from mysti-
cism to pantheism it is still a nearer approach. Islam with its absence
of a metaphysical background was a fruitful soil for the growth of
pantheism. And when Semitic Islam conquered Aryan Persia, we
find that the Aryan Monism of Persia in which “God ceases to be a
Being external to the individual and Law is no longer a command
imposed from without’ offered her an excellent stage of develop-
ment. Had not Islam come in contact with Aryan metaphysics or
Greek intellectual abstructions, we cannot hazard what would have
been the course of Islam inspite of the attempts of early ascetics or
mystics to give it a safety-valve compensating her bankruptcy in
metaphysics.”

In Arabia there might have been another prophet to soften her un-
questioned faith in metaphysics or there might have been a religious
war as in Europe in the léth and 17th centuries. Ethics of Semitic
Islam mixed up with Aryan metaphysics of Persia blossomed forth
into the beautiful Pantheiom which is known by the general name of
Iranian Sufism.

The first step from theosophy to Pantheism was taken by a Per-
sian, the celebrated Bayazid (875 A.D.}-son of Zoroastrian tutored
by a Kurd. He introduced openly the doctrine of “Fana”—self-
annihilation and in a charmed moment he exclaimed, “I went from
God to God while they cried from me in me, O thou I.”

In his Pantheistic vein he felt, “Verily | am God there is no God
except me; so worship me."” When he conceived the unity of worlds
by his side, he cheered himself; I came forth from Bayazid-ness,
as a snake from its skin, Then I looked, I saw that the lover, beloved,
and love are one, for in the world, by unification all can be one.” Or
in other words, “I am the wine-drinker, | am the wine and | am
the cup-bearer.”

In course of a century after the great Bayazid had passed away,
Sufism which in Arabia was simple quietism and asceticism passed

_ 3 Shaikh Abu Said Abul Khair (1040 A.D.) wont to the length of believing
in the doctrine of Tanasukh (Transmigration), Naksh (re-incarnation)
into the body of animals (Maskh), Vegetables, (Faskh) or minerals (Raskh).
Abu Muslim of Khurasan actually based his arguments on Suratul Bagara on
the doctrine of re-incarnation. This is certainly an instance of the influence
of the Aryan doctrine of transmigration of the Soul.

Google
36 M. L. ROY CHOWDHURY

through natural stages of mysticism and theosophy only to become pan-
theism and monism through its contact with the Persian Aryanism.
On the other hand what was at the outset only a form of life adopted
by the individuals whose spiritual needs communicated to a small
group of friends, could not be satisfied within the ethical limits of
Islam, in course of time became a monistic system—a school for saints
organised between Pir and Murid—master and disciple.

The doctrines of these saints soon began to be collected and sys-
tematised in treatises such as the Qutul Qulub by Abu Talib Makki
(996 A.D.), Kitab-ul-Lumma by Abu Nasar-al-Sarraj, Risala by Qashay-
riyya etc. The moment the doctrines began to be collected, there
arose sects amongst the Sufis and in a short time we find the Dar-
weshis, Adawiyyas (1163 A.D.), Qadiris (1166 A.D.) and Rafias. The
Mevlevis were a Sufi order formed by the great Persian mystic Jala-
luddin Rumi with whom pantheism remained a living faith tinged
with his characteristic melancholy tone (1273 A.D.). He desired in
his pantheistic mood to go back to God from whom he emanated
under the allegory of a flute crying to go back to the bamboo stock
from which it was separated.

“Oh hear the flute’s sad tale again
Of separation I complain

Ever since it was my fate to be
Thus cut off from my parent tree,
Sweet moan I live made in the pensive sigh
While men and women join my cry.
Man’s life is like this hollow rod;
One end is in the lips of God

And from the other sweet notes fall,
That to the mind and spirit call,
And join us in the All in All.”

The Sufis by that’ time became targets of attacks of the orthodox
order owing to their free thinking and pantheistic ideas. Thanks to
the efforts of great Ghazzali, the Sufis could win a secure position in
the Islamic world; Ghazzali interpreted the Islamic theology from a
mystical standpoint and he reconciled it with the sayings of the Sufis
by giving it a metaphysical background. It was he who gave the
“relations” (Kasuf) of the mystics a place by the side of the “tradi-
tions” (Taqid) and “Reason” (Aq!) as a fundamental principle of the
faith. Thus the orthodox was constrained to tolerate the worship of
saints, miracles of the “‘Awliya’’ and veneration of tombs of holy men,
through the strict interpretations of Shariat could never permit the same.

Google
BACKGROUND OF SUFISM IN INDIAN ENVIRONMENT — 37

In Persia the Sufis found a very convenient soil, and the pheno-
menal progress it made could be read in the contemporary poetry
of Iran. Imagery, allegory and fantasy which are distinguishing cha-
acteristics of Persian poetry received forceful treatment in the tran-
scendental out-pourings of the Sufi writers of the period. Of them
‘Abu Said Bin Abul Khair of Khurasan expressed the relations between
man and God and that between beauty and intoxication in most en-
chanting terms. “The real basis of their poetry,” says Von Kramer,
“is a lofty ethical system which recognised in the purity of heart,
charity, self-renunciation and bridling of passions, the necessary con-
ditions of eternal happiness.” Attached to this we find a pantheistic
theory of the emanation of all things from God and their. ultimate
reunion with Him. . In his famous Masnavi Jalaluddin Rumi wrote :—

“God is the sole reality (Al-Haq) and is above all names and defi-
nitions. He is not only the absolute Being but also absolute Beauty.
It is the nature of Beauty to desire manifestation, the phenomenal
universe is the result of this desire in which God says, ‘I was a
hidden treasure and I desire to be known, so | created creatures in
order that | might be known.’ Human soul belongs to the spiritual
world and is ever seeking to be reunited to ite source. Such union
is hindered by the bodily sense, but it can be enjoyed at times before
death by a stage called ‘Hal’, ecstacy, where the veil of sensual per-
ception is rent asunder and: the Soul is merged in God.”

There is yet another direction in which Persian Aryanism influenced
the Semitic Islam, I mean in the direction of the doctrine of salvation
through the preceptor. It i well-known that to an Aryan, the rela-
tion between the sensible and the real world has been brought by a
series of incarnations in which the Creator himself comes to teach the
Law to the Created. But according to the Semitic conception it is an
Angel, generally Gabriel, that brings the message of the other world
into this. The Aryan doctrine of incarnation and personal relation-
ship between the visible and invisible through the agency of a visible
medium, was very favourable to the growth of the idea of “Murshid”
and “‘Murid” (Master and disciple) in Persia. In fact this doctrine
carried to its extreme length has supplied to the philosophic back-
ground of the development of Shi‘ism in which Ali and the Imams are
more or less the anointed interpreters of the messages of God. They
hold that the secrets of the messages of God and Islam lie not in
the lines of the Quran, but between the lines, and more often beyond
them. The Prophet initiated only his immediate disciples into these
secrets. Thus Ali was the first to whom Muhammad confided the
secret of inner Islam, and from Ali it was transmitted to the twelve

Google vive
38 M. L. ROY CHOWDHURY

Imams. The Imam divulged these secrets of spiritual effulgence to
those only whom he considered fit to hold this message and this pro-
cess was handed down from generation to generation round which
grew the doctrine of ‘Murshid’? and ‘‘Murid’ in Islam in a wider
form under the caption of Pir ‘Muridi.

In short Shi’ism thus interpreted, as Mukhtar holds, is nothing but
a highly Aryanised interpretation of Islam where the Prophet and
Imams are more or less divine incarnations.

The pantheistic doctrine of Iran in which every thing is a manifes-
tation of God and there is nothing apart from Him, was very favourable
to the growth of the conception that the highest bliss lies in the ulti-
mate union with that Impersonal Being from which the Creation has
emanated. The secret of this process through which this union can
be attained is known, as the Aryan thinks, only to the souls that
have been illumined. Thus to an Iranian, the idea of association with
a Being more developed and more illumined approaching the highest
impersonal Being, was but a logical process of the Aryan theory of
incarnation. Carried further, this process conceived that the illumined
Soul of the teacher acts as an intermediary between the Creator and
the created. The Aryan believes that the miraculous powers of the
Mlumined Soul of the Pir (Guru)' may be brought to the use and
advantage of the disciple. This belief in Guru (Pir) has been carried
to an extreme length when Hafiz propounded.

“Drown your carpet into wine, if your Pir says so;
For your guide knows the way and its destination.”

The most hateful thing of Islam, | mean wine, even may be in-
dulged in, if Pir so desires; Guru was thus given a place far above the
covenanted message. The curtain that lies between God and man may
be lifted only by the Pir, and in Persia in one form Sufism ultimately
resolved itself more or less almost into a worship by the Pirs.

By the 13th century when Islam came in direct touch with Indo-
Aryan mind in India we find the fullest development of Sufism in this
direction.

Islam had already come in touch with India through her conquest
of Sind, that mystic Sind which was the meeting ground of so many
cultures and civilisations from the very ancient times. Sind was pulsa-
ting with new thoughts of Advaita philosophy of Sarhkaracharya when
Muhammad bin Qasim conquered the land. Forty years of Arab rule
historically isnothing but a romantic episode in Indian annals, but
from the standpoint of culture it saw the acclimatisation of Islam on
Indian soil. Soon the conquering hordes melted away and dissolved
into Indian soil which from the standpoint of culture became

Google
BACKGROUND OF SUFISM IN INDIAN ENVIRONMENT 39

the foundation of a movement, the exponants being Lal Shah, Firuz,
Baholul and others. A transcendental Vedantic tone pervades the
out-pourings of these Muslim saints, from which have been quoted
quatrains of following centuries including those of the famous Sham-
suddin Tabrez.

For two hundred and forty years after Muhammad bin Qasim,
there was practically no physical movement of Islam towards India,
when India was rather making a silent headway into Islam through
the translation of her philosophy during the Abbasid period. Beginn-
ing from Mansur, Indian philosophy filtered through the Sanskrit
schools that were established in Baghdad by the converted Baramaki
family, especially by Barmaki Yahayah, Khalid, and Jafar; innumer-
able references to Sanskrit works have been found in the contemporary
Muslim literatures both of Arabia and Persia. By the time Ghazni
conquered Hindustan, Indian philosophies specially Yogasastra,
Logic, Astronomy, and medicine had become great favourites with
the illuminati of the Islamic world. Al Beruni may be regarded as a
great transmitter of Indian ideas into Islam. The four centuries that
followed Al Biruni, was the period when Persia was synthesising
Islam in the east, while Turks were vulgarising Islam in the north
East. It is significant that Islam was spread in India through these
Turko-Afghans who had no great cultural heritage to boast of and
themselves were but half-Muslim in the strict sense of the term. If
Islam was making her physical conquest of Hindustan through these
Turko-Afghans, India was Hinduising Islam through the elastic and
absorbing tendencies inherent in her culture. Contemporary writings
of Amir Khusrau, Malik Muhammad Jaisi, Kabir, Kamal bear innu-
merable traces of Hindu influences on the Muslim thoughts of the
Turko-Afghan period of Indian history. As the movement towards
domicilisation of Islam continued further, we find the importation of
purely Hindu ideas into the citadel of Islam through the incompletely
converted Hindus. The advent of Darweshes, Awliyas and saints like
Mainuddin Chisti, Ruknuddin, Nizamuddin Awliya and others, had a
Peculiar significance in Indian cultural history.

The Eastern mind is generally a worshipper of personalities more
than of principles. The existence of these saints naturally attracted
the local population through their piety, sympathy and spiritual efful-
gence. Towards the latter parts of the Turko-Afghan period, the
Hindus were gradually softening their exclusiveness and approaching
their Muslim brethren who had by then become permanent factors
in their society. This process of fusion found a partial consummation
in the rise of saints like Ramananda, Chaitanya, Kabir, Nanak, and

Google
4 M. L. ROY CHOWDHURY

others, to name a few only. These Hindu and Muslim saints found
ready response amongst the followers of both the communities. The
“Dargas’” (Resorts) of Muslim “‘Pirs” as well as the “Akhras’” of
Hindu “Sants’” became the common resort of the followers of both
the faiths by the I5th century. The Mahdi movement which pro-
phesied the appearance of a Regenerator of Islam under the title of Al-
Mahdi after 1000 years of Muhammad gave a new pulsation inside
Islam. A number of celebrities claimed the dignity of Al-Mahdi both
in India and in the north-west. Thus from the middle of the 10th
century Hijra in India there were three liberal movements of Islam
working systematically, one to the north working from the south
through Sufis like Lal Sah and Firuz, the second through Mahdists like
Bayazid, Islam Shah and Shaikh Mubarak, and the third working
through Kabir, Jaisi, Kamal, and others; while a Hindu movement
was traversing the whole of Hindustan working through saints like
Chaitanya, Nanak and others. The great eclectic system called the
Din-i-llahi was nothing but a wave of this thought-process working
through the great Imperial theosophist, Akbar. This eclectic process
continued till the middle of the 17th century when it collapsed with
the death of Dara Shuko. This was the most fruitful period of the
growth of Sufism in Indian history gathering around the personalities
of the saints and master-minds of Islam in India, and no history of
Sufism can be written without a thorough study of the life and time
of Dara Shuko.* :

I have already pointed out that ex-Arabian Islam had by that
time been steadily developing the idea of worship of Gurus through
the personalities of illumined souls and that it had been more or less
reconciled with orthodox sects outside Arabia through the efforts of
Imam Ghazzali. Once on Indian soil, this idea of worship round the
personality of a higher being ultimately dwindled into the worship of
that personality—a process which was also not unknown in Persia
From his childhood an Indian is impregnated with the idea that—
“God wants a union with Him that wants Him. Every heart is an
abode of God. But he has eyes yet he sees Him not; he has legs
yet he approaches Him not. He has capacities yet they are latent.”
‘An Indian is always told that these latent capacities can be developed
so that he might see, feel, and approach Him; but it must be through
a medium. Therefore he must associate himself with a soul that is
already illumined. Thus both the Hindus and Muslims approached the

4 In Sirr-i-Akbar, Dara Shuko used many of the Indian terms to re-
present the Sufi ideas and vice versa which clearly show the influence of
Hindu ideas that penetrated into Islam.

Google el
BACKGROUND OF SUFISM IN INDIAN ENVIRONMENT 41

illumined souls of saints to show them the way to God and draw them
to a plarie of higher existence.

As no two men are similar to each other in all respects, 80 no two
souls are similar in their spiritual experiences. Each of these illumined
souls spread his illumination to his immediate circle in his own way and
thus round about each saint. grew up a special organisation or religious
order infused with the spirit and form of the personality who occupied
the centre. In no time in India there grew up different orders and
organisations round the personality of different saints the most im-
portant of them being

Chistia, Shattari, Qadiria, Nagas Bandia, Surhawardia and Be-Shara

There are again orders within orders and sub-orders, too, according
to the experiences of Pirs and disciples.

‘The Indian Sufi Orders rest entirely on the Pir or Guru. It is ex-
pected that every Pir shall win for his disciple the Divine favours
through his advanced powers. There is the system of initiation to
give the first ordination amongst the Indian Sufis in imitation of Indian
initiation (HF4qr™), But the Sufi ceremony is much simpler—the disciple
is to place his hand on that of his master and swear allegidnce to
him. After initiation the Sufi is supposed to be a traveller (Salik) in
the path (Tariqat), and he is to plod on and to observe the rules of
the order including ritualistic observances such as Zkr, Remembrance
(eart). ‘

He has then to pass through several stages of spiritual existence
before he reaches his destination and they are Nasut, Malakut,
Jabrut, and Lahut almost similar to the Indian Annamaya Koga, Prana-
maya Kosa, Jfignamaya Koga and Hiranmaya Kosa. Different names
have been given to these stations by different Pirs such as Shariat,
Tarigat, Maarfat and Haqiqat—these too have Indian synonyms for
them such as Karmakanda, Upasanakanda, Jfidnakanda and Samadhi.

In the stage of Shariat the disciple moves in the circle of rules of
conduct as laid down by the Law of Religion; in the second stage of
Tariqat he entres into the spirit of Laws; in the stage of Maarfat he
understands the relation between God and his creations. In the final
stage of Haqiqat he completely dissolves into God. In this ecstasy he
cries out as did the great Sufi— .

“Tam God, I am God, | am God."*

Google
: Editorial Notes

On the [6th June 1944 Sir P. C. Ray, the esteemed President of
the Managing Committee of the Greater India Society, breathed his
last at his residence in the University College of Science, Calcutta.
The following resolution was passed by the Managing Committee of
the Greater India Society at its meeting held immediately there-
after:—

“Resolved that the Managing Committee of the Grater India

Society records profound sense of grief at the lamented

death of Sir P. C. Ray, Kt., D,S much respected

President for the last ten year a dedicated life—

* dedicated to all noble causes tending to benefit his country-

men and relieve suffering hum: His numerous and

magnificent contributions to the a

men in widely different fields will be gratefully remembered

by them and will be an endless source of inspiration to them

in future times, The Greater India Society has been bene-

fitted along with numerous other institutions by his sage
guidance and his generous patronage.”

An obituary notice of the late lamented scientist, patriot and

humanitarian will be published in the next number of this Journal.

* * * * *

On the occasion of the first visit of Dr. R. E. Mortimer Wheeler,
the new Director-General of Archaeology in India, to Calcutta, the
members of the Greater India Society met him in the rooms of the
Royal A: Society of Bengal on the 14th June 1944 at 4-45 p.m.
At the meeting Dr. Wheeler, in response to the request of the Hony.
Secretary, accepted the office of Vice-President of the Managing
Committee of the Society and he’ further agreed to give a general
permission to the officers of his Department to contribute papers to
the Society's Journal, subject only to the normal rule of his prelimi-
nary inspection before publication. To indicate its high appreciation
of the wholehearted support accorded to the Society by Dr. Wheeler,
the Managing Committee authorised the Hony. Secretary to present
him with a select list of the Society’s publications including a com-
plete set of its Journal up-to-date. These were presented through the
intermediary of Mr. T. N. Ramachandran; the then Curator of the

Google
EDITORIAL NOTES 4B

Archaeological Section of the Indian Museum, Calcutta and mem-
ber of the Managing Committee of the Society.
* * * - .
The Managing Committee of the Greater India Society gratefully
acknowledges the receipt of the following donations. since the
beginning of the current year :—

Dr. Narendra Nath Law... s+ Rs. 100/-

Dr. Nalinaksha Dutt Rs. 50/-
Dr. U. N. Ghoshal Rs. 50/-
* * * * *

In sending out the present Stein Memorial Number of the Journal
of the Greater India Society, the editor expresses his grateful thanks to
the scholars from and outside India who have contributed articles
inspite of the difficult conditions prevailing at present. Some of the
articles which were received too late are reserved for publication in
the next number of this Journal which will also be issued in honour of
the late great explorer and Orientalist.

" Printed and Published by Sj. J. C. Sarkhd, ae che Caloutta Oriental reas
9, Panchanan Ghosh Lane, Calcutta.

Google
origin
UNIVERSITY

CHIGAN
THE .

JOURNAL

OF THE

GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

Vou. XI dury, 1944 No.2

The Early Population of Lou-lan-Shan-shan

By Dr. F. W. THomas

Concerning the small state of Lou-lan or Shan-shan, situated
to the south and south-west of Lop-nor, i.e. the Lop lake and salt
encrusted morass in Chinese Turkestan, a certain amount of informa-
tion was made accessible in 1756 by the publication of Deguignes’
Historie générale des Huns; see Vol. 1, Part Il, pp- 11-2. The parti-
culars adduced were mainly, as in the case of the other states, those
recorded in the Former Han Annals of the Chinese; but Marco Polo’s
account of the ‘town of Lop’ was also brought in. Thus the geo-
graphical situation of the’ state, as lying mostly south of the terminal
course of the joined Tarim and Cer-cen rivers where they approach
Lop-nor and as having on the ‘south-east’ the mountains and peoples
of ‘Tibet,’ was adequately defined, and the mainly desert character
of the land was described. In the text (chapter no. 96) of the Annals,
translated by A. Wylie in 1881-2,’ the gazetteer-like entries are
accompanied by a historical relation wanting in the case of most of
the other was due to the initial importance of Lou-lan,
as immediately adjoining the new Chinese north-western frontier
resulting from the expulsion, c. 121 B.C., of the Hsiung-nu domina-
tion from what is now Kai soon estab-
lished, with China the state had to trim its policy in the face of the
Hsiung-nu power, still able to threaten through the Chii-shih territory

1. Journal of the R. Anthropological Institute, X, pp. 20-73, XT, pp. 83-1155
also (1926) De Groot, Die Westlande Chinas in der vorchristlichen Zeit,
pp. 46-182,

° Google
46 F. W. THOMAS

on the north, and the fluctuations of Chinese control over Turkestan
and Pamir kingdoms. In 77 B.C. it had to admit a Chinese military
colony under a Commandant-general, and, with its name changed
to ‘Shan-shan, it remained for the most part subservient to China.
For the period 25-239 A.D. the Later Han Annals and the Wei-liio,?
both translated by Chavannes, afford some further information. Dur-
ing the period c. 25-73 A.D., when Chinese influence was in abeyance,
there were in Turkestan, besides Hsiung-nu interpositions, also inter-
state struggles, in the course of which, after c. 60 A.D.,* two states
became predominant in the regions south of the desert, ‘namely
Shan-shan, which extended as far west as the Niya river, absorb-
ing the former small kingdoms of Calmadana (Cer-cen), Hsiao-wan
in the southern mountains, Cad’ota (Ching-chiieh) on the river, and
Parvata (Jung-lu, Pe-pin) on, the upper reaches of that river, and on
the other hand, Khotan, which became its neighbour. From c.73
A.D. Shan-shan was ‘again dominated by China; and some few years
after 119 A.D. a new military colony was established at a junction
of routes in the desert region north of the Tarim river, receiving
the name Lou-lan in memory of the ancient designation of the
state.* As long as that colony existed, i.e. atleast until the first
half of the IVth century A.D.,° Shan-shan must have been under
the control of some Chinese power; and even later it was subject
to interferences and invasions from that side.* But with the widen-
ing scale of events its inconsiderable extent and remote situation in
the south-eastern corner of Chinese Turkestan reduced its signi-
ficance: from c. 445~c. 670 A.D. it played a part only as an appa-
nage of the Tu-yulkJ-hun kingdom, of the T:

jidam and Koko-nor;

2 Poung-pao, IL, vi (1905), pp. 619-571 (Wei-tiio), viii (1907), pp, 149-234
(Later Han Annals).

8 See Chavannes, Later Han Annals, p. 172.
4 On the Chinese practice of so revi
, VI, p. 871, 0, 2
For the dating seo Stein, Serindia, p. 426,

6 In 441 A.D. Shan-shan was occupied during a whole year by An-chou,
@ prince of the Pei-liang dynasty of Kan-su, “which had ruled (from Sha-chow
to Liang-chou) from c. 397-489 A.D., when it was overthrown by the Imperial
Wei. An-chou’s army, sent in advance of the proposed invasion of Kao-ch’ang
by his brother Wu-hui, drove out the Shan-shan king Pi-lung and waited
in the state capital, I-hsiu: seo 0, Franke, Eine Chinesische Tempelinschrift,
pp. 17-8 (Berlin Academy Sitzungsberichte, 1907).

ng old appellations, see Pelliot,

Google
THE EARLY POPULATION OF LOU-LAN-SHAN-SHAN a7

itself owning a loose allegiance to a Chinese power,” and thenceforth
only as a province of Tibetan (c. 670-1035), later of Tangutan
c. 1035-1226 A.D.), rule. Marco Polo found one ‘large town,’ no
doubt on the site of the modern Carkhlik; but its inhabitants were
Musalmans.’ Later the whole country, as far as its western border,
became deserted; and it is doubtful whether the early population has
left any descendants at all, the now existing settlements ‘being all
_of modern origin and even the ‘Lop-lik’ fishing-people of the river
reaches being immigrants, of Turkish speec!

Modern interest in the country was primarily geographical, cen-
tred upon problems relating to desiccation and the situation and
area of Lob-nor. There has supervened a keen archeological inter-
est, kindled by explorations of desert sites, which have brought to
light remains of a once-flourishing civilization. Suggested by Sir
Sven Hedi discovery of a desert site representing the ancient
Chinese military colony of Lou-lan, the expeditions of Sir Aurel
Stein, carried out with remarkable enterprize,’ endurance and insight,
archaeological and geographical, have reconstructed, so to speak,
the extinct civilization in many of its chief aspects, administrative,
social, religious and artistic, and have recovered relics of utensils
and fabrics used in common life. The finds also illustrate and
amplify the historical information furnished by Chinese literature :
and there are collections of flints, etc., from’ prehistoric periods.
All these matters, with a full summary and discussion of the histo-
tical, geographical and topographical notices, have received masterly
treatment and illustration in Sir Aurel Stein's personal narratives
and lectures and in the splendid folio volumes of his three official
reports, Ancient Khotan, Serindia, and Innermost Asia, with their
accompanying volumes of plates and portfolios of may

In the Lou-lan colony, which is once or twice mentioned as a
“big town,’! the interests and business were mainly Chinese; but
even there were certainly native officials’ and other residents and
edifices of their religion, which was Buddhi: Elsewhere the Chinese
seem to have been’ merely individual trading parties’? or occasional
officials: in general the government and administration was native.
The predominant religion was Buddhism, and the religious archi-

7 In the year 676 A.D., on the occasion of the Emperor Kao-teung’s
northern progress, Cer-cen received from the Chinese the new name (Sa-p’i)
Posion; seo L. Giles, BSOS., VI, p. 890.

8 Seo Yule’s Marco Polo, od. H. Cordier, I, pp. 196-7.

9 Seo Stein, Serindia, p. 395.

Google
48 F. W. THOMAS

tecture and art (both style and subjects) were in thorough conformity
with the practice of the Indo-Hellenistic, ‘Gandhara,’ art of the
Indian north-western frontier regions: possibly in some of non-
traditional portraiture there may be features reflecting native phy-
siognomy.’* There are some remains of forts, Chinese, and, ata
\d, Tibetan,
in the writings’ that the conditions most clearly reveal
themselves. The materiale and forms are for the most part of
Chinese origin, being oblong (those with Indian script in many cases
wedge-shaped) wooden slips, or squarer rectangles of wood or
leather, or pieces of silk or paper, folded when containing letters ;*
but there are some few leaves or fragments in Indian form and
material, perhaps left by visitors in shrines. From Krorayina the
bulk (c. 1000 items) consists of Chinese documents, calendars, letters,
etc., with a relatively few fragments of literary works ; here’ the
interest is almost exclusively Chinese, though there are references
to individual natives, in some cases officials, and foreigners of
various races. The relatively few documents in Indian Kharosthi
script and in an Indian Prakrit dialect ace likewise concerned with
business. In the only other area of copious finds, namely the Niya
river region in the extreme west of the kingdom, the proportion
of Chinese to Indian is reversed: here the Indian items number about
700, while those in Chinese are some 10 or 12. These Indian pieces,

10 See infra, p8. 11 Seo Stein, Serindia, p. 380.

12 In the Kharogthi documents from Cadota the ‘Chinese’ or individual
Ohinese are not infrequently mentioned (seo Professor Rapson’s Index):
in no, 85 an srrival of traders from China is expected.

18 Sir A. Stein notes (Serindia, p. 507) a semi-Semitic appearanco of
some faces in tho Mirin paintings.

14 The Chinese documents from Krorayina and Ca/lota, the Stein colle
tibn, are edited by Chavannes in Les Documents Chinois découverts par Aurel
Stein. (1918): some fow also in Ancient Khotan, pp. 687-649. Others from
Krorayina, Hedin collection, are edited by Conrady in Die Chinesischen
Inschriften und sonstigen Kleinfunde Sven Hedin in Low-lan (1920). The
Kharogthi documents are edited in Kharostht Inscriptions discovered by Sit
Aurel Stein—transcribed and edited by A.M. Boyer, E.J. Rapson and
BE, Senart (and P.8, Noble) (1920-9): two small fragments are included in
Conrady’s work, and some further documentts, trouvailles of Stein's third
expedition, are edited by Dr, T. Burfow BSOS., IX.

15 For studies of the forms and materials seo Stein, Serindia, pp. 764-6,
and Conrady, op. cit., pp. 93-74.

Google

‘THE EARLY POPULATION OF LOU-LAN-SHAN-SHAN 49

rescripts, deeds, lists, accounts, letters, expose the administrative
working of the state, the occupations and interests of the people
and the epistolary usage in official and private communications :
there are numerous directions for official procedures, records of
legal transactions, lists and accounts, some few reports of religious
concerns and a number of references to relations with foreign peoples,
notably that of Khotan.’* Very important linguistically are some
of the plentiful designations of office or function or class and the
mass and system of personal names. The phraseology, legal and
other, including elaborate forms of address, is for the most part
idiomatically Indian.’ This current use of Indian script and language,
by, say, 100 different writers, some of them quite minor officials,
shows that in the period, say c. 150-350 A. of the Kharogthi
documents the Indianization of the native life in Shan-shan was on
a level with that in the states of Indo-China; namely Campa, Fu-nan,
and Cambodia ; équally with these Shan-shan may be regarded,
along with the other states of Chinese Turkestan, a part of
‘Greater India’. As late as 400 A.D., the Buddhist pilgrim Fa-hsien
could write’* that—
‘The king of this country honours the law (of Buddha).
There are some 4000 priests (sc. monks), all of the Little
Vehicle belief. The laity and the Sramanas of this country
wholly practise the religion of India, only some are refined
and some coarse (in their observances). From this proceed-
ing westward, the countries passed through are all alike in
this respect, only the people differ in their language (Hu
words), The professed disciples of Buddha, however, all use
Indian books and the Indian language.’
Rapid acclimatization of a complete culture introduced from abroad
has, of course, many instances. In Shan-shan, as in the Indo-
Chinese countries, the earliest Indian influence may not have been
Buddhist, but there and in Chinese Turkestan generally it seems to
have become exclusively so. The strange fact that the early Chinese
jistories at a time when Buddhism was known in China itself never
isting in Turkestan exemplifies
a perhaps essential difference between the Chinese expansion and
the Indian, the former being political and well informed in practical

16 Cf. Acta Orientalia, XII, pp. 41-54. 17 Ibid., pp. 62-8.
18 Seo Beal, Buddhist Records of the Western World, I, p. xxiv; cf.
Logge’s translation of Fa-hsion, pp. 1214.

Google
50 F. W. THOMAS

matters, but indifferent to the psychology of the dominated or foreign
peoples, the latter propagandist and educative.

The ethnography of a long extinct population comprizing at the
earliest known period, as Lou-lan, only 1570 families. 14,100 indivi-
duals, and subsequently, as Shan-shan, never perhaps reaching
50,090, may be considered of slight interest. But the matter has
wider bearings and raises questions in regard to the peopling of the
numerous other atatelets of Turkestan. Moreover, it presents itself
in a relatively practical aspect which, being linguistic, may involve
distant and ancient connections. For the interpretation of the
mass of documents particularized above and for understanding the
culture and history a view of the ethnic character and language of
the people proves to be indispensable.

Here it should be premised that the expanded Shan-shan state
may not have been at fret ethnically or linguistically uniform. The
territories acquired from about the middle of the ‘Ist century A.D.,
may have been at a different level of culture; and the circumstance
that the mass of the records comes from those territories, when not
from the Chinesé military colony, may mislead. It is, however,
clear from the excavations at Miran, where, or in which vicinity, was
the capital of the original small state, that in course of time, at any
rate, things had evened out: ‘and any discrimination, if such is to
be made, could come only at the end, not at the beginning, of the
inquiry. With a view to clarity, however, we may distinguish (1),
by the name Lou-lan, the original state, both before and after its
rebaptism by the Chinese, (2), by the name Shan-shan, the enlarged
kingdom, resulting from the expansions after c, 60 A.D., (3) by
the well-attested form Krorayina, the Chinese military colony of
Lou-lan, founded some years later than 119 A.D.

Concerning Lou-lan the Former Han Annals, compiled from
official records extending down to c. 25 A.D., states as follows’ :—

‘The soil is sandy and salt. There is accordingly little
tillage, and people are consequently dependent upon the agri-
culture of the adjoining kingdoms, whence it is sought to pro-
cure grain.

The kingdom produces jasper (jade), and there are there

abundance of reeds, tamarisks and willows, Katalpas [probably
a kind of poplar] and white herbage.

The people with their herds of cattle seek out the places

with water and vegetation. There are in the country asses and

19 See Wylie, op. cit., p. 25; De Groot, op. cit., p. 55.

Google

THE EARLY POPULATION OF LOU-LAN-SHAN-SHAN 61

horses and many. camels. People understand how to manu-

facture weapons, and these are similar to those of the Jo (Dia,

Ni)-ch'iang.’
This description of a semi-nomadic people, practising agriculture
only in a few places where the ground was not excessively sandy
or salt-impregnated does not preclude the existence of some ‘towns
The same account mentions strongholds and a ‘capital, Yii-ni, re
dence of the king; also in the centre of the kingdom, in a fertile
area, a ‘town’ I-hsiin or I-hsiu, where in 77 B.C. the Chinese estab-
lished a military colony and subsequently maintained a ‘Commandant-
general’ (fu-wei). Furthermore, there must always have been, as
Sir Aurel Stein cogently argues,”” an important settlement in the
region of the modern Carkhlik, favoured by a relatively extensive
cultivable area and by its situation in regard toa probably ancient
tricle of communication the Tsaidam and Koko-nor regions of
north-eastern ‘Tibet.’ Later we find it stated that here in Han times
was the actual capital, the real bearer of the name ‘Lou-lan."**

We must here studiously avoid some much discussed topographi-
cal questions” relating to the three places and retain only the gene-
rally accepted identifications of (1) I-hsiin, or’ I-hsiu, with the place
known in Tibetan times as ‘Little Nob’ and with the Miran
(2) of Ch’i-t‘un, the place of the ‘Seven Military Colonies,’ as either
actually at I-hsiin or in its vicinity,”* (3) Shih-ch‘éng, ‘Stone-town,”
mentioned in T'ang times as corresponding to the old Lou-lan town
with Carkhlik Heiian-tsang’s Na-fu-po and the Tibetan ‘Great Nob.”
As to whether the original capital, Yii-ni, was actually at I-hsiin/I-
hsiu and not somewhat further north and nearer to the Tarim embou-
chure into Lob-nor,** whether the capital was ever in fact at Carkh-

te,

20 Serindia, pp. 311-8, 475 n.

21 See Beal, op.cit., II, p. 325.

22 It may be sufficient to refer to Stein’s Serindia, pp. 920-3, 326-8, where
are references to discussions by Grenard, Chavannes, Herrmann and Pelliot:
add, however, the observations of Dr. L. Giles in BSOS, VI, pp. 828-850,

23 It is likely that ‘Seven military colonies’ involves an error and that
the site was that of the original military colony of 7 B.O.: seo Pelliot,
Journal Asiatique, XI. vii (1916), p. 116. In JRAS., 1928, p. 590, 1934,
P. 96, it has been pointed out that Ch'i-t’un is perhaps a corruption of
the native name, in Tibetan writing Se-toh and Rtse-thon, of a placo where
was the royal residence of the subsequent Tu-yu (k)-hun rulers of Skan-shan:
that place will have been adjacent to the capital, V’hsiin.

2% It seems possible that Yii-ni, stated apparently (seo Stein, Serindia,

Google Wy GAN
62 F. W. THOMAS

lik or was named Lou-lan, we may suspend judgment. What is
certain is that Krorayina, though a ‘big town,’ and an important
Chinese station, was never the state capital.”*

The ruling persons in the state, listed in the Former Han Annals
according to its practice, were—

(1) 1 *Vassal-chief, support of the state’ (fu-kuo);

(2) 1 ‘Vassal-chief for repelling the Hu"

Heiung-nu barbarians);

(3) 1 ‘Commandant-general (tu-wei) for Shan-shan’;

(4) 1 ‘Commandant-general for war-measures against Chi

(5) 1 ‘Right’ and ‘Left Ch’ieh-chii’ ;

(6) 1 ‘Chief for war-measures against Chii-shih’ (‘Smite-Chii-shih

chief’);

(7) 2 ‘Head-Interprete:
list, ethnographically not very instructive, may be historically
misleading. No. (3) is probably the above-mentioned Chinese ‘com-
mandant-general’ at I-hsiin/I-hsiu. No. (2) the commander against the
Hsiung-nu, paralleled in several others of the states, and nos. (4)
and (6), who operate against the more or less contiguous state of
Chii-shih, are no doubt, of Chinese instigation, since in pre-Chinese
times the states did not resist the Hsiung-nu, and with Chii-shih,
except when it was codperating with the Hsiung-nu. against the
Chinese, Lou-lan had no quarrel. The Chinese originals of the
titles have in general no specially local significance; but it is notice-
able that no. (1), who would be the king himself, honoured by
the Chinese with the title ‘Vassal-chief,” has in his attribute, ‘support
of the state (fu-kuo),’ the original of the subsequent Prakrit-Kharo-
sthi expression raja-dharag’a=Sanskrit rajyadhGraka. The ‘Hea
Interpreters,’ in Lou-lan and most of the other states, may have

in this case, clearly,

‘shih’;

P. 826), to be on the lake at the embouchure of the river, was rather in the
vicinity of the present fishing village of Abal, which has always been an
important place of passage for travellers and) whenco in modern times (Serindia,
pp. 849-850) Mirdin was recolonized.

25 In Kharosthi documents No 678 the ‘great town’ (mahamta hagara)
clearly is Krorayina; but elsewhere (nos. 5,155,250,296) there is an addition
of ‘at the king’s gate’ (rayadvarammi), and the reference must be to the
capital, known from positive statement (see L. Giles, op.cit., p. 829), 8
well as from the above-noted occupation by An-chou’s expedition, to have
been at V’hstin/I-hsiu. A glance at Sir A. Stein’s map suffices to show that
Krorayina, Chinese junction settlement far away in the desert to the
north-east, can never have beon the capital.

Google
‘THE EARLY POPULATION OF LOU-LAN-SHAN-SHAN 58

resulted from diversities of language in Chinese. Turkestan itself,
but may as well have been due to the development of the transit
trade.

This single non-Chinese term ch‘ieh-chii, which previously (Acta
Orientalia, XIII, p. 75) has been equated to the cojhbo of the Kharo-
sthi documents may require reconsideration” in view of its occurrence
at an earlier date as a Heiung-nu official title. It might bea relic *
of the domination by that people, unléss it is merely an ancient ins-
tance of the borrowing of titles (yabgu, khagan, tu-tug, tegin, cigii,
etc.) prevalent at later periods in Central Asia. For ‘Right’ and
‘Left’ a Hsiung-nu derivation would suggest the meanings ‘West’
and ‘East.

Among the states in touch with Lou-lan the first place belongs
to that of Chii-shih, the Guchen-Turfan region of the easternmost
T’ien-shan, The two were certainly not contiguous, except in the
sense that there was nothing between: to the south of Chii-shih the
great Sho-na desert extended to the now absolutely barren Kuruk-
tagh range of mountains, south of which again the Lou-lan territory,
even if it extended so far to the north of the Tarim river, was likewise
mainly desert, though probably less desiccated and eroded than at
present.*’ But communications over the Kuruk-tag were, Sir
Aurel Stein has shown, more feasible than they now are; and their
actuality is proved by the fact that in the early period of Chinese
penetration Chii-shih and Lou-lan were alway the fluctuations of
pressure from the Hsiung-nu and the Chinese, either acting together
onthe one side or the other or driven into mutual conflict. The
actual first pretext for Chinese military intervention in~ Chii-shih
and Lou-lan was an accusation of, the two states jointly as having
molested the early Chinese communications with the Western
Countrie:

On the north-west there will have been some natural intercourse
with the line of statelets (Shan/Mo-shan=Singer?; Wei-li, on the
Konche river; Wei-hs
the course of which was dictated by the reaches of the Kuruk and
Konche rivers on their way to join the Tarim, and which linked the

26 See infra, p. 92.

27 On the Sho-na desert and increased desiccation of the Kuruk-tagh and
‘the region to its south, see Serindia, pp. 707-8, 1155 n. 334, 407-8.

28 Seo Wylie, op.cit., pp. 25-7, De Groot, op.cit., pp. 55, 57.

29 Wylie, op. cit, p. 101, De Groot, op. cit., pp. 164-6, 163-4, Stein, Serindia,
PP. 333-4, 1230-2.

2

Google
54 F. W. THOMAS

country to Khorla (for Karashahr) and Kuca. In Chinese times it
was, of course, a great route. The western boundary of Lou-lan
consisted of the terminal marshes of the Tarim and Cer-cen rivers,
behind which stretched the main extent of the impassable, central,
Taklamakan desert. South of the Cer-cen river the desert of c. 198
miles in width, which is the first stage of the ‘southern route,’ is, as
‘flanked by the river, not formidable... Near the southward bend
of the river was the comparatively large oasis of Calmada/Cer-cen,
which itself communicated with the northern statelets by a route
curving round the eastern part of the desert and skirting the Lou-lan
boundary.**

Calmada the western neighbour of Louslan, was culturally a mid-
way point. In the Former Han Annals the account of Shan-shan
ends with the statement that— .

‘Shan-shan lies on the Han road [sc. the great southern
route]... Westward to Cer-cen is 720 li (c. 150 miles). From
Cer-cen onwards the five cereals are everywhere cultivated,
and soil and vegetation, animal-rearing, industries and war-
measures are like those in Han [China]. What is different
will be specified.’

That Calmada was not quite on a level of culture with the oa
settlements on‘ the rivers further west, from which it was separated
by a broad space of difficult sand desert,’* appears from the remark
of the Buddhist envoy Sung-yiin, who concerning its population of
cc. 100 (in Former Han times 230) families, says” that— |

‘They know not the use of oxen or ploughs in their husbandry.”
The above considerations would render intelligible the expansion of the
Lou-lan kingdom as far west as Calmada and would confirm a view,
if otherwise maintainable, that in the further westward extension
as far as the Niya river the state absorbed a population of a some-
what superior culture and possibly inct race. But that is not
here propounded.

30 Particulars of route in Grenard, Mission Dutrewil de Rhins, III,
p. 219; account of journey, Stein, Nerindia, pp. 304-6; Desert Cathay,
I, pp. 326 sqq.

BL On this route see Serindia, p. 420, Innermost Asia, p. 765.

82 See Beal, op.cit., II, pp. 3245, for Hoiian-tsang’s account: details
in Grenard, op.cit., ILI, pp. 218-9.-

33° Beal, op. cit., I, p. lxxxv, Chavannes, Bulletin de UBcole Francaise
@Eetréme-Orient, TH, p. 991,

Google
THE EARLY POPULATION OF LOU-LAN-SHAN-SHAN 55

On the east Lou-lan was separated from the Chinese border in
Kan-su, with its important military garrison town, Tun-huang/Sha-chou
and the smaller settlement of Shou-ch’ang (now Nan-hu), some 80
li (c. 16 miles) further west, by the really formidable Kum desert,
which could well have constituted an ethnical barrier. There were,
however, two routes, very long (c. 300 miles) and toilsome, of com-
munication, the one following partly the southern shore of Lop-nor
and ultimately reaching Tun-huang, the other, south of the desert,
winding rather high up round the slopes of the barren mountains
and descending to Shou-ch’ang/Nan-hu, where the river Tang ho
debouches, and so to Tun-huang/Sha-chou.**

The valley of the Tang-ho was, and is, a route from western Kan-su
overthe great, snow-crowned, Altyn-tagh range of mountains to the
Tsaidam of north-eastern ‘Tibet,’ which was the main habitat of
the Jo (Dia-ch’iang) people who had also, has been mentioned,
some fairly easy descents in the region of Carkhlik. The same people
was, as the Former Han Annals reports plainly from local informa-
tion at each point, regarded by the Turkestanis as furnishing the
population (which must have been extremely sparse) of the ‘Tibetan,’
southern, side not only of the Altyn-tagh, but of the whole great
mountain barrier, the Kuen-lun, at least as far west as the longitude
of Khotan. But also on the northern, Turkestan, side they were
found by the Chinese immediately to the west of the Yang barrier
at Shou-ch'ang (Nan-hu). It is denied that any groups of people on
the long mountain route to Carkhlik were likewise Jo (Dia)-ch’iang;
but at Carkhlik they extended even across the high road and they also
bordered on Calmada/Cer-cen and the mountain state of Hi
wan, to the south thereof.’ This is not the limit: for according to
testimony which we need not here consider, since we are carefully
leaving out of sight the country west of Shan-shan, there were

34 On these routes and distances see Stein, Serindia, pp. 549 sqq.

85 These particulars concerning the Jo-ch’iang are mostly stated in the
main account: see Wylie, op.cit., p. 23, De Groot, op.cit., pp. 52-3, and
also Chavainnes in T’oung-pao, II, vi (1905), pp. 526, m. 8 where the
statement concerning extension across the high road differs from the transla
tion of De Groot. The fact of bordering on Cor-con andits southern neighbour
may imply that the later Vashshabri, between Cherkblik and Cer-cen, was
originally a Jo-ch’iang station. The extension of the Jo-ch'iang along the
whole hinterland wouth of the mountains is displayad in old Chinese maps
also and in that accompanying Professor Horrmann’s Die Seidenstrassen,

Google 7
56 F. W. THOMAS

remnants of Chiang, if not of Jo(D%a)-ch’iang, people in the southern
mountains even as far west as the Karakoram and the Pamir.

The general upshot is that there was one only people, namely
the Jo(Dia)-ch’iang, known to have been in any close contact with
the Lou-lan population, and that this contact existed along the whole
southern border of the state and was in part intimate. If we were
inclined to suppose an ethnical affinity between the two long extinct
peoples, objection on the ground of physical type is obviously in-
applicable. Even should we find in the ancient hunter temporarily
exhumed by Sir Aurel Stein in the far north of the Krorayina region
and photographed and discussed in Innermost Asia, pp. 264-6, photo-
graph 173, a Lou-lan physical type, neither his physiognomy nor the
mode of burial would be inconsistent with a Ch'iang affinity. Afnong
the etan-speaking people of north-eastern ‘Tibet’ the physical
type, is, as Mr. Joyce has suspected,** not that commonly recognized
as ‘Tibetan’; and the same may be said concerning peoples of eastern
Tibet and other Tibeto-Burmans of the Sino-Tibetan borderlands.
This is attested by statements of travellers, who refer to aquilinity
of nose, straight eyes, absence of the ‘Mongol fold’ or prominent
cheek-bones, and in some cases exceptionally tall stature.’’ Con-
cerning the qode of burial also something might be adduced.

Nevertheless, the fact that the Chinese evidently regard the Lou-
lan people, despite similarity of culture and actual intercourse, as
distinct from the Jo(D%a)-ch'iang is not negligible; and that the
Ch'iang, like the Tibetans, were people of the mountains and high
plateaux, whereas the Lou-lan people belonged to the plains, may
have an ethnical significance. Hence a solution of the problem not
to be found in the geographical and historical situation, must be
sought in the written indications and the language. A systematic
study of the material could nét yet be contemplated: but we may
. consider some relevant particulai

1. The territorial system and the general administration
From the numerous communications addressed in the king’s name
to administrators in Cadota, whence comes the bulk of the Prakrit
material,—with one or two, of similar tenour, from Krorayina—it
is evident that the central authority exercised a close control and

36 Seo Serindia, -p. 1361 (4).

87 See Praovalsky, Mongolia (trans, E.D. Morgan), II, p. 110, Rockhill,
Journey through Mongolia, ete., p. 234, Land of the Lamas, p. 74, Bonvalot,
Across Tibet (trans), I, p. 80, II, pp. 8, 97.

Google

THE EARLY POPULATION OF LOU-LAN-SHAN-SHAN or

frequently interposed even in minor matters: the system was not
feudal -or federal. Nevertheles, a trace of prior local independence
may be detected in the use of the term rajya, ‘kingly rule,” ‘kingdom.’
in the sense of ‘administration,’ ‘sphere of administration.” Thus
in no. 272, a royal rescript to a cojhbo posted in Cadota, we find the
expressions tusya rajiye ‘in your (singular) kingdom (sc. administra-
tion province),’ and tumahu rajammi, ‘in your (plural) kingdom,’ the
latter recurring also in no. 229 and perhaps again in no. 109. Ana-

logous phrases are—

adehi rajade, ‘from the there (=where you are) kingdom’ (nos. 164,

223)

tatremi rajammi, ‘in that same kingdom’ (no. 40)

Cadota-raja, ‘the Cadota kingdom," (no. 415).
In a number of instances it becomes accordingly disputable whether
raja and rajya ( skrit rajya) unspecified denote the Shan-shan
kingdom as a whole or a particular province; and a partly analogous
doubt may arise in regard to the use of the adjective rayaka, ‘royal.’
The alternative is explicit in—

bahi rajade rajarajade, ‘from outside administration(s) [andl

from kingdom (sc. central) administration(s)" (No. 714)
where the context precludes the renderings ‘foreign’ and ‘home.’
In no. 31 para raja may signify not ‘foreign kingdom,’ but merely
‘other province.’ In accord with this use of raja (rajya) the provin-
cial heads of administrations are entitled rajadharaga, ‘kingdom (or
tule}-holding,’ a rendering, as we have seen, of the Chinese fu-kuo;
and matters and persons connected with the administration are rajad-
(dh)areya (Sanskrit rajyadhdreya?): examples—

rajadaraga mahatva, ‘administrative heads’ (no. 120);

rajadareya mahatva, id. (no. 582. cf. no. 637);

yam kalammi tuo cojhbo Tamjaka rajadharaga hudesi, ‘at what

time you, cojhbo Tamjaka, were (or became) adminietration-
holder’ (no. 625).

If it should be suggested (as in Acta Orientalia, XIll, p. 45) that
this use of the term rajya, ‘kingly rule,’ was a survival from the
period when Cadota’ was an independent state, that would perhaps
not conflict with the sense of the word cojhbo, which does not seem
to have connoted any special function. This appears from the use
of the plural in appl: to two persons of whom the second was
probably not a cojhbo in any technical sense: we find, e.g.—

cojhboana Kranaya Lpipeyaga ca (no. 88)
cojhboana Yitaka Vuktosa ca (no. 576).

Google
58 F. W. THOMAS

But in addresses—

cojhbo Kranaya gothamgha Lpipeyaga ca (nos. 19, etc.)

cojhbo Yitaka tomga Vuktoga ca (nos. 3, etc.)
Lpipeya is not styled cojhbo and has the distinct official designation
gothamgha, and similarly Vukto is not a cojhbo, but a tomga. It is
to be inferred that cojhbo was a title, not of office, but of dignity,
‘my lord’ rather than ‘governor,’ and so could be applied to high
officials generally. If so, the usage is markedly similar to that of
jo-co, jo-bo, co-jo, and the apparently equivalent rise-rie, ‘head
chief,’ in the same country some c. 400 years later, namely in letters
to Tibetan officials. The persons are sometimes addressed with
definite titles, ‘Councillor,’ ‘Home Minister,’ etc., only, but some-
times with jo-co, etc., either preceding these or in substitution for
them. .

It is, however, certain that the local cojhbo’s or ‘great cojhbo's’ -
(no. 585, maha-cojhbo) did not hold office by virtue of hereditary
relation to originally independent chiefs: they were appointees of
the central government—

ekisya etaga raja picavidemi

‘to him (cojhbo Somjaka) singly | have committed the ad-

ministration’ (No. 272) .
and the phrase vargavargi rajadhdreyana, ‘year-by-year administra-
tors’, (No. 637) may indicate that in theory the appointments were
for a single year.

Furthermere, in addresses and also in other lists the cojhbo is
sometimes preceded by other ranks, which therefore are of higher
consideration. In joint addresses Kori Viryavamta (nos. 40, 64) and
Cuvalayina Malbhuta (no. 55) are so preferred: and elsewhere a like
precedence is accorded to Kori Rutraya (no. 49), K. Togaja (no. 570),
Cuvalayina Pumfiavamta (no. 517), and c. Tiraphara (nos. 582, 732),
sometimes along with ogu’s, camkura’s, guéura's, etc., who obvious-
ly belong to the central regime. The Kori’s (pl. in no. 692) and
Cuvalayina’s are therefore superior ranks in their local residence,
the latter, but probably not also the former, term, connoting certain
functions.

A frequently mentioned subdivision is the ‘hundred’ (Sata), noted
in the edition (Index) with reference to Sir A. Stein’s Serindia,
p. 65, where attention has been drawn to Colonel Trotter's account
of the three sad’s of Wakhan, which are administrative divisions,
each of 100 houses.** In Shan-shan the ‘hundreds’ attested in Kro-

38 See Forsyth, Mission to Yarkund, p. 276.

Google
THE EARLY POPULATION OF LOU-LAN-SHAN-SHAN cs)

rayina as well as in Cadota, are uniformly mentioned as ‘X's sata’;
and Dr. Burrow (The Language......, pp. 97, 124-5) has satisfactorily
explained the Prakrit appellation gatavita (Sanskrit equivalent un-
ascertained), as denoting the person in charge of a Sata; the daSa-
vita, frequently mentioned in connection with éatas, but also else-
where in obvious connection with ‘10,’ he equally well explain
one in charge of a ‘Ten,’ and in no. 170, unless dasammi is a mis-
take for Sadammi, the ‘Ten,’ itself is cited.

To what do these numbers refer? In Tibetan Literary Texts
and Documents, |, pp. 282 sqq., and previously in J.R.A.S., 1928,
p- 563, 1934, pp. 96-7, the Tibetan system of ‘thousand:
(ston-sde) under ‘thousand-commanders’ (ston-dpon), also ‘10,000
districts,’ has been described and shown to have existed during Tibe-
tan times in the Western Kan-su also and the Shan-shan area, But
the matter has much wider bearings: it may be said that a system
of ‘thousands,’ ‘hundreds,’ etc., existed among most of the ‘barbarian’
peoples of Central Asia with which the Chinese came succ ely
into contact. The earliest recorded example is that of the Heiung-
nu, c. 200 B.C,, with their 24 commanders of 10,000, who severally
appointed their own commanders of 1,000's, 100's and 10’s. The
Sien-pi Tu-yu[k]-hun had commanders of 1000’s and 100's. One of
the Pamir stat. inherited from Turk times an official hierarchy
of fingbashi, yazbashi, onbashi, which, however, may be the ordi-
nary military ranks.’*

The unit may have varied from case to case, being in the case
of nomads tents, elsewhere houses, in both cases households or
families. That in the states of Chinese Turkestan some such system
led during the earliest recorded period is evident from the
statistics of families and persons given in the Former Han Annals,
the number of persons being commonly an exact multiple, oftenest -
by 7, sometimes by 6 or 8, of the number of families, and accordingly
an estimate. The number primarily known to the Government
was therefore that of households: and the like will have been the
case in Shan-Shan. In Acta Orientalia, XIII. pp. 52-4, it has been
Proposed to understand the appellation tomgha in the Prakrit docu-
ments as equivalent to the (non-Tibetan) stom-gyan of the Tibetan
and meaning ‘thousand-man’, which would yield a likely etymology
of tom, stom, eten stor, ‘1000’, Tokhari tmam, ‘10,000°,
Tibeto-Burman Hsi-hsia tu, ‘1000’, Turk toman, ‘10,000". This would
harmonize with the fact that in no, 96 are mentioned 9 tomghas at

39 Ibid. p. 99.

Google
60 F. W. THOMAS

Cadota, six of them as supplying c. 20 men each: also the tomghas,
who in the small states will not have been very numerous, were
sufficiently important for one or other of them (e.g. Vukto in nos. II,
23, 28, etc.) to be sometimes addressed in royal missives along with
the cojhbo and to have subordinates (vathayaga, nos. 357, 387, 622).

With the ‘hundreds’ are associated ‘districts’ (prateja, etc. =
Sanskrit pradega), prevalently (e.g. in nos. 41, 173) in such a way
that in lists of things or persons in, or from, a number of ‘hundreds’
one pradeéa, sometimes two, but usually a relatively small number
of pradeéas, is included, being on the average level of a single
‘hundred’ in respect of the number or quantity of the items mentioned
as in, or from, them. Elsewhere pradeéas occur in their own lists.
There seems to be no instance of a ‘district’ containing a ‘hundred’;
but frequently persons in charge of ‘tens’ are mentioned. It follows
that the ‘districts’ were outside the ‘hundreds’; and since the latter
will obviously belong to the more thickly populated town-areas,
follows that the districte were sub-urban, or country,
sparser population, They are nearly always cited as ‘X’s pradeéa,
where X, in one or two instances indentifiable with a tomgha X,
may be rather an official than a landowner. Possibly however, the
contrary is to be inferred from the frequent association of vasus
with avana’s and kilme’s.

As explained in Acta Orientalia, XIII, pp. 63-4, the avona’s,
avana’s (Sanskrit pana), were. ‘markets’, being villages usually almost
entirely uninhabited except on market-days, a feature still widely
characteristic of Chinese Turkestan, and also of Kan-su and other
parts of China.‘® That there was no Turkestan word avana meaning
imply ‘village’ has been proved elsewhere. The special character
of the avana’s is manifested by their appellations which predomin-
antly refer to their chief traffic, e.g. Yaveravana, (grain) ‘barley-
market’, ajiyama (ajima)-avana, ‘butter etc. (Sanskrit djya)-market’,
trasa-avana, ‘live-animals (Sanskrit trasa)-market’, and perhaps peta-
avana, ‘sheep (Sanskrit petvan)-market’: similarly in India we have
‘edibles-market’, ‘garland-market’ (bhakeya-mdlya-dpana). It cannot,

40 For a lively description see Forsyth, ibid., pp. 62-8: in greater bro-
vity we read (p. 254), ‘nearly all the villages Ihave seon in East Turkestan,
consisting of a number of small hamlets, scattered about the plain. Each
hamlet consists of a number of scattered farmhouses, In a central position
is tho bazar, with long rows of stalls on both sides of the road, somewhat
resembling thet of an Indien village, but absolutely untenanted except on
the weekly market-day.”

Google
THE EARLY POPULATION OF LOU-LAN-SHAN-SHAN 61

however, be proved from the documents that the avana’s were in
Practice restricted to any particular products, nor was it to be
expected that they should be so. Nor could cultivation in the
vicinity of the avana’s be unusual; and in fact the distribution of
tillage in connection with them is several times pointendly ig question,
the best example being in -no. 713, where a certain Vasu is accused
of holding up lands in the ajima-avana,

The kilmi’s or kilme's (Adjective kilmici, kilmeci, kilmemci,
‘person of a kilmi, kilme’) and the persons belonging to them are
normally (e.g. nos. 16, 32, 254, 279, 297, 393, 422, 431-2, 468, 474,
495, 581, 621-2) connected with avana’s, But sometimes the kilme’s
(nos. 256, 358, 482) or kilmeci are mentioned us belonging to some
individual, usually an important person (in no. 38 a head of a monas-
tery, vihdra-pdla); and in one instance (no. 374) a distinction is
made between the tax paid from the rdjya (sc. the public lands, etc.)
and that from the kilmeci’s. It might therefore be that the kilmeci’s
were serfs of rich men, working on their local estates; and certainly in
connection’ with farmlands (nos. 713, 734), winecrops (nos, 358, 431)
and sheep or cattle (no. 519). Some specialii
‘Statement that men do duty in the ‘hundred,’ women in the kilme—

puruga jamma Satammi dharma karemti, striyqna*? kilmi dharma
karemti (no. 46)
Furthermore, we find: (nos. 165, 211;.714) the expression ‘vega (vega)-
kilmi women,’ and (no. 481) ‘vega-kilme duty (dharma)’ on the part
of a woman. It has been suggested (Acta Orientalia, XIII, p. 63)
that the vega-kilme work was connected with irrigation, but that
depends upon an etymology.

No help is afforded by deriving kilme (Dr. Burrow, JRAS., 1935,
pp. 673-5) from the ‘Tokhari’ word kélyme, taken in the sense of
‘district.’ Not to mention that kélyme is attested at a date some
c.. 400-500 years later than kilme, ite meaning is not ‘district’ (Sans-
kit deéa), but ‘point of the compass’ (Sanskrit dis), in which sense
it constanty recurs, so that, but for a suitable etymology propounded
by the editors,“ it might be suspected of being a loan-word=Greek
klima in its geographical sense. The fact that the kilme-people were
freely moved about (no. 639) and that they were so often depen-
dants of important persons at the centre, e.g. Kala (prince) Pumfia-
bala (no. 331), K. Kuppuda (no. 307), Ogu (noble) Pumfiayaga (no.

41 Irregular syntax, not unexampled.
42 Tocharische Grammatik, by E. Sieg and W. Siegling in conjunction
with W. Schulze, §4, b.

3

Google
62 F. W. THOMAS

209), O. Agoga (nos. 254, 621), O. Viharavala (no. 393), O. Ajhuraka
(no, 639), O. Bhimasena (no. 734), and the fact that the kilme’s them-
selves were 80 often attached to avana’s suggest that the kilme’s
were not permanent establishments at all, but encampments of re-
tainers of» great men sent out for profitable, seasonal. employment
as cultivators, harvesters, gleaners, and for other work (in no. 621
a kilmeci potter, kulala): the case of the chun-pa’s, ‘field work-
ers,’ etc., in Tibetan times may have been similar.

Many of the documents are concerned with palpi and the remit-
ting of it to the central government: the term covers a variety of
objects, such as animals (camels, etc.), corn, ghee, textiles, camdri-
kammamta, etc., and there are several references to palpi-dharma,
“the (customary) law of palpi’. That palpi was equivalent to ‘tax’
was stated in Acta Orientalia XIII, pp. 46, 62-3, and the same mean-
ing was adopted by Dr. Burrow‘ with a revised transcription palyi
in place of the edit palpi. Dr. Burrow was thus able to make
out a case for identifying the word with Sanskrit bali, the p being
attributed to local pronunciation: and this view, which certainly
is recommended by the lack, down to the present, of any suitable
alternative, was shared by Professor Liiders,“* who, however, has
since,® by identifying the word with the pali (chin[n]a) of the
Mathura Lion Capital Inscription of much earlier date, virtually
renounced the proposed explanation of the p. However, the mean-

ing is sure.
The fact that in no. 714, as noted in Acta Orientalia, Xl, pp. 5-6

and n, 2, three classes of persons, namely Vasu's or Yasu's,
Ageta’s and Yatma’s, from all the provinces are required to repair
annually to court for inquiry into the taxation law groups the three
classes as interested in taxation. The understanding of the Vasu’s
or Vas s landowners, or at least persons of considerable standing»
is clear in general from the manner of their precedence and also
from particular references: for instance, in no. 25 a Vasu is
addressed by Kala (Prince) Kunala, in no. 622 by Kala (Prince)
Pumii . and in no. 393 Kori Rutraya, who usually is of higher
consideration than a cojbho, is ‘Vasu K. R.” Moreover, in a majority
of instances where a particular Vasu is concerned the matter
relates to transactions in some avana, = village as defined. It is
therefore probable that Vasu was landlord, or other head, of a

43 JRAS, 1935, p. 675; of. p. 670.
44 BSOS., VIII, pp. 687, saa.
45 Acta Orientalia, XVIII (1939), p. 16.

Google

{THE EARLY POPULATION OF. LOU-LAN-SHAN-SHAN 63

village: without immediate etymological implication we may
compare the term Spa, applied in Tibetan times to local magnates
in the Khotan region.‘* Of the yatma we can say for certain that
he was concerned with corn (nos. 146, 349, 430, 439), its collection
into store-houses (dranga, no. 272), and its despatch (nos. 305, 307);
but he also collects and conveys other dues (palpi, nos. 275,
374), and is mentioned, moreover, (nos. 23, 546), as despatching
camels. The ageta, since he is often vasu-ageta or yatma-ageta and
seems to partake of the functions of the Vasu or Yatma, may have
been either case the ‘subordinate,’ ‘deputy’ or ‘agent’: his
title may be the native equivalent of the Prakrit vathayaga (Sanskrit
upasthayaka), the name of an official who, like the ageta, is sometimes
mentioned along with his employer (Aya Ridhagenasa v., no. 419,
Kitsaitsaga v., no. 579, raya v., no. 576, tomgha v., no. 622) and
‘sometimes (e.g. nos. 189, 581, 637) without such specification.

The only other local official needing mention may be the
gothamgha. That this officer was primarily in charge of a dramga,
‘granary,’ ‘store,’ etc,, is evident in nos. 272, 520, 567, and has been
stated in Acta. Orientalia, XII, p. 45 n. 2, XIII, p. 62; but he seems
also to have controlled the supply of camels for travel and transport.
The etymology of the word as mentioned in the edition (Index) cannot
be maintained: as pointed out by Professor Bailey (B.S.O.S., VIII,
p. 905), the word must certainly be connected with ‘Tokhari’ sos-
taka, denoting some officials who are not mininisters (amatya). If
telated to Sanskrit Srug, érugfi, éraugti, ‘obey,’ ‘obedience,’ ‘obedient,”
it implies merely loyal service, and has no special significance in
regard to Shan-shan. In case the personal name Srustinga (no, 593)

46 A Sake-Khotani spolling spita, understood aa=spddapati, ‘army-com.
mander,’ seems to havo led Professor Bailey, BSOS. VIII (1936-7), pp. 934-5,
to attribute to spa a military signification and to translate spate by ‘General.’
Whether » form spate would have been practically posible in use ao a
drivative of spadapati » non-Ironist could hardly consider. But one may
ask why, if the ¢ is real, it is nob written #? If it ie what Leumann
called the histus-removing f, which is in fact the case as regards the spata
cited by Professor Konow in Saka Studies, p. 182- (see the Hoernle document
there cited and the accomparying Plate), why should not spata be one of
the fanciful Saka-Khotani spellings and represent merely spa? This is
suggested by the fact that nothing military appears in the Tibetan contexte
where spa occurs and, far more decidedly, by the Tibetan translation of spa
cited by Professor Bailey, Sde-dpon is not a military term: it regularly de-
notes the civil head of a distriot,

Google
hi F. W. THOMAS

belongs to the group the dental ¢ might point to a co-operation of the
in (Zend) equivalents graosha, ‘obedience,’ asrushti, ‘disobedi-
It is, however, not certain that the initial s of sothamgha
is derived from ér, and the definite charater of the gothamgha’s func-
tions is adverse.

Il. Material Objects and Animals

There have been ingenious and fruitful studies of unfamiliar terms
in the Prakrit denoting such things as agricultural and other country
products and procedures, textiles, articles of dre weapons and
other fabricated goods, measures and weights, legal, epistolary and
other usages and expressions. From the nature of the case the
success consists in tracing the terms to Indian, Iranian and other
outside sources, and the things themselves may practically all belong
to an imported culture, at least as regards Lou-lan. Native terms,
if any, would be problematic. .

We might expect to find native, or at least local, names for the
jasper (jade), reeds, tamarisks, willows, Katalpas and white herbage
credited to Lou-lan in the Former Han Annals. But such have
not been found. It may be suspected indeed that the word hagga,
which in no. 297 denotes something that should be forwarded
to the king and the giving out of which is, as also in no. 751,
an offence, and a gift of which is in no. 542 a subject of
accusation, should be the precious jade, ja: in Chinese yi.
In the Turki form kash the name of the stone is borne by the Khotan
rivers Karakash and Yurungkash : allied forms are known in Mongol,
etc., and others possibly connected are found even in ancient Hebrew,
Greek iaspis, etc.‘” It follows from this that hagga, even if current
in Shan-shan, may have been not native in Shan-shan, but imported in
the Prakrit. The expression cémdri-kammamta (nos. 272, 714), taken
in Acta Orientalia, XIl, i of two
words, in Sanskrit, cdndri and karmdnta (with loss of r. due to dissi-
milation from the preceding syllable, dri), meaning respectively ‘moon-
light’ and ‘working,’ the latter the regular term, in the Kautaliya-
Arthagastra and elsewhere, for industrial operations. The reference
to jade is not a speculation, but is based, as was alleged, upon the
unchallengeable Chinese statement regarding Khotan that—

47 On jade in China and its names see Abel-Rémusat, Histoire de la ville
de Khotan, pp. 199-240, esp. pp, 124.132; YuleCordier Marco polo, I, p. 193.
Dr, Laufer’s Jade (1912) is not largely linguistic,

Google

THE EARLY POPULATION OF LOU-LAN-SHAN-SHAN 65

‘there is there a river [containing] jade. The people of
the country watch during the night the spots where the reflection
of the moon is intense and do not fail to find there fine jade.”

The names of the common animals, ox, sheep, horse, » dog.
etc., are all Prakrit, or at least Indo-Iranian, and accordingly un-
instructive. Even the camel, native in Lou-lan and in the wild state
still found in the Kum desert and the high Altyn-tagh valleys, is
always given his Prakrit name (ufa, utha), never even an Iranian form,
Some obscure epithets are found applied to the camel, among which
akra(or kla, kta)tsa or amk*, also (in no. 590) akra(kla, kta) simply,
is equated by Dr. Burrow (JRAS, 1935, p. 67’, The Language...,
pp. 71, 106), to a ‘Tokhari’ word aknats, akndtea, meaning ‘un-
knowing’, ‘stupid’. It does, indeed, seem more than possible that
the -tsa is indentic with the ‘Tokhari’ Adjectival sufix ats, etc;
but it may be suspected that that suffix is itself, like the -ci and -gi of
group-flexion, derived from a fubstrate speech. As regards the
particular instance, the reading of which is, as appears, difficult’,
it may be noted that the ‘Tokhari’ word itself requires explanation:
the further form agiltsa (no, 422), which Dr. Burrow regards as a
variant of akratsa, we might be tempted to interpret as its opposite,
connecting it with ‘Tokhari’ aklye, ‘tradition’’ ‘learning’. A third
similar epithet is the punigebha (°tsa) of the edition”.

Dr. Burrow's ingenious suggestion (The Language p. 119) that
in no. 198 the clause printed in the edition as kopi varaga syati and
translated in Acta Orientalia, XIII, p. 61, ‘whatever be his turn’
should read ko pivaraga syati and be translated ‘whichever is fat”
cannot be said to have been favoured by fortune. It is true that
varaga and pivaraga run level in so far that both recur once only
(varaga, no. 667, pivarae, no. 358), each with reference to camels.
But the vara, i.e. presumably ‘turn of usage’. of a camel is so essential
that in no. 73 the compound word ufavara occurs (several times),

48 But Kl is the best reading; see Rapson, p. 318 of the edition.

49 These and other terms relating to camels are discussed by Professor
Liiders in BSOS, VII, pp. 647-651. The rare syllable read as kla recurs in
the term klasemci, which is always used, as Dr, Burrow points out (The
Languaye...,p. 85), to denote a person connected with camels. It seems
possible that kla is actually the native word for ‘camel,’ and ig related to
Chinese lo, (Karlgren, Analytical Dictionary, No. 441, l4k) ‘camel, the
phonetic of which involves, according to Karlgren, an archaic kl or gl
Klasemci might then mean ‘camel-station (sa)-man.’ On Hoi-hsia lari-nén
and other names for ‘camel’, sco Laufer in T’oung-pao, 1916, pp. 20-2.

Google
6 F. W. THOMAS

while in no. 72 there is a long list of oxen twice or thrice (dvi-vara,
tre-yara) supplied (or despatched?) with water.

IIL. High official or social appellations

Under the Mahari and in general residing at the centre, were
various classes of persons obviously high in government or social
status, kala, guSura, camkura, ogu, kitsaitsa (°satsa, °sayitsa), suvetha,
tasuca; others are doubtful, as to whether gentile surnames or
titles or. occur also, or mainly, locally, e-g. apsu. Among these
we might certainly expect to find real Lou-lan expressions; but the
frequent borrowing of titles in Central Asia, as elsewhere, introduces
adoubt. Suvetha, spetha, has a Prakrit-like appearance and might

=Sanskrit svigta, svegta quasi ‘our well-beloved’, and kala,
‘prince’, and guéura, may have been brought from the Indian north-
western frontier. Camkura. ‘mayor’, and ogu clearly belong to
Chinese Turkestan, the former being known also in connection with
Khotan Buddhism. The import of several of the terms is discussed
in Acta Orientalia, XIII, pp. 72-8.

Dr. Burrow’s explanation (op. cit., p. 82), of kitsaitea as perhaps
connected with ‘Tokhari’ ktsaitsafie, ‘age’, and meaning ‘elder,’ i.e.
‘member of a sort of council of elders’, seems commendable, and the
tsa might be the same Adjectival suffix as in akraisa. But evidently
this group of titles awaits explanation from the language rather than
vice versa,

IV. Names of the country and people

The name Shan-shan substituted for Lou-lan by the Chinese
in 77 B.C., was maintained by them: it is used in the Han (Former
and Later) Annals, in the Wei-luo, and elsewhere, and locally some
Chinese documents (see the edition, p. 325) mention the ‘king of
Shan-shan’ and the ‘command of Shan-shan.’ But it does not
follow that the name was adopted by the natives.

In the Prakrit (nos. 678, 696, 706) Kroraina, °rayina, certainly
denotes the town of the Chinese colony of Lou-lan: in no. 678 the
Kroraimei Camaka, though residing in Calmadana (Cer-cen), is
seen from the circumstances to have belonged to the same town; and
similarly in no. 370 the Kroraimci people who have fled ‘there’,
ec. to Cadota, from the domain of the Ogu Alpaya will have been of
that town. Hence the Kroraimci people who occupy a district
(pradeéa) in Cadota (no. 277) are residents from outside; and this
is confirmed by the fact that the only other district cited not by the
name of an individual official or owner. but of a plurality, namely

Google

THE EARLY POPULATION OF LOU-LAN-SHAN-SHAN 67

that of the Vurcugas, was probably likewise a settlement of outsiders.
Hence any designation of ‘a man of Lou-lan’ or ‘a man of Shan-
shan’ has to be discovered.

It may be noted that, though in Chinese the name of the new
colony, Lou-lan, was identical with that of the ancient state, it does
not follow that in the native language, if of a different type, the case
was exactly similar. Italica is not identical with Italia, nor Hellanion
with Hellas, nor Phocaea with Phocis. In Krorayina the -na or -ina has
the appearance of a suffix, as in Calmadana=Calmada. If the
original name of the country was Krorara or Krorar, it would equally
have appeared in early Chinese as Lou-lan.

The surname Korara, prefixed in the Kharogsthi Prakrit to the
names of Rutraya, Sugita, and Cakvala (see Index), can easily be
one of those place(or race)-surnames which were common in
Central As in the documents we have Cadota Kupgu (no. 159),
and such surnames were often used (e.g. Cugapa. Parvata) as the
principal name (possibly a politeness). The Adjectival forms in -i,
such as Cadoti, Parvati, Khotani, are to be suspected of being due
to the Prakrit, which did not favour the simple place-name in
such usage.

Accordingly Korara Rutraya may be ‘Rutraya of Korara’, sc. of
Krorara=Lou-lan. But why is a man surnamed after his country
even on occasions when there is no need to distinguish him from
anamesake? A simple and satisfactory answer is that he is not
a native, but an outsider, in the'community where he is functioning.
In Cadota, Rutraya is registered as Korara, because he is a man of
an outside region, viz. the old Lou-lan state. But there is another
Rutraya, who in royal rescripts to Cadota is often addressed as
Kori, with precedence over the local cojhbo, and who may very
well be the Vasu Kori Rutraya of no. 393. A Kori Viryavamta has
similar precedence in other documents. A Kori Sujada in no. 355
seems to be at court; in no. 570 Kori Togaja, at court, is mentioned
between Ogu’s and a cojhbo; concerning Kori Spalpaya of no. 579
nothing is to be said; but Kori Bhimaya in no. 704, and Kori Muldeya
in no. 706 are addressed by the king, at Krorayina, in high company;
the plural Koriyana (no. 692, at Krorayina) is merely on the outside
of a covering-tablet. If Korara Rutraya as the occurrences
‘suggest, merely an ordinary person from Lou-lan, then Kori Rutraya
is something far more distinguished, namely a noble, representative
of the K[rlora race.

As has previously (The Ganganath Jha Commemoration Volume
pp- 421-5) been pointed out, a Kora people -is requisite for the

Google
68 F, W, THOMAS

explanation of the name of Ptolemy's (VI, 16, §§ 2, 5, 8) ‘Ottoro~
korrhoi’ mountains, where were the source of the Bautisos, ec. the
Cer-cen river, and the town ‘Ottorokorrha’. The, evidently Indian.
identification with the legendary country of the Uttara-Kurus can
be explained only by the preexistence of a local name resembling
Kura, Of course, it cannot be affirmed that this Kora was for Krora;
but, if not, the Koras were certainly the near neighbours of Krorara.

Mention should also be made of Lung-lo, Lung-le, the original
name of ‘the district of Shou-ch‘ang, known in Saka-Khota:
Sucamni, sc. the modern district of Nan-hu. This being the eastern
neighbour of Lou-lan and evidently in communication therewith,
its resemblance in (tribal or racial?) name may not be accidental.

V. The Language

In Indo-China the native languages came ultimately to be used
in writing, so that of the Cam and Cambodian, for instance, we now
possess a full knowledge and large dictionaries. In the case of the
Lou-lan and Shan-shan language, or languages, this did not occur.
For administrative and general use in writing the Prakrit may’ have
been replaced under the Tu-yu[k]-hun domination by the Chinese,
which was succeeded. by the Tibetan; and perhaps no sentence
of the native language was ever written. The available material
consists merely of individual words incorporated in the Prakrit,
perhaps one or two in Tibetan, The paucity of such words h
already become manifest: and a further scrutiny may fail to dis
cover in the Kharogthi documents any native terms for ‘god,’ ‘sky,”
‘sun,’ ‘moon,’ ‘earth,’ ‘water,’ ‘fire,” ‘wind,’ ‘mountain,’ ‘sand,’
‘desert,’ ‘lake,’ ‘river’; for ‘camel,’ ‘ass,’ ‘wheat,’ ‘barley,’ ‘millet,’
‘gold’; for ‘king,’ ‘queen,’ ‘man,’ ‘woman,’ ‘child,’ ‘town," ‘house,’
‘husband,’ ‘wife,’ ‘law,” ‘custom, ; for ‘body,’ ‘hand,’ ‘head,’ ‘foot,’
etc.; or for any pronoun or numeral. In these circumstances the
etymologizing of words apparently foreign to the Prakrit and so
presumably native becomes, except where the words are clearly
traceable to some other known language of suitable date and proxi-
mity, an operation in vacuo. At one period there was a tendency,
based perhaps jointly upon finds, in the Khotan region, of docu-
ments in an Iranian language and upon Mr. Joyce's anthropometri-
cal study, to view the ancient population and speech, both of the
Khotan and of the districts further east along the southern route,
as of Iranian affinity. In 1925, Asia Major, Il, pp. 251-271, and
subsequently elsewhere, was adduced evidence, consisting of Proper
Names, local and personal, cited in literary texts, indicating an ori-

Google

THE EARLY POPULATION OF LOU-LAN-SHAN-SHAN ey

+ ginal non-lranien, apparently Tibeto-Burman, language, predecessor
of the Iranian in Khotan. In 1926 a paper entitled Names of Places
and Persons in Ancient Khotan dealt somewhat systematically with
the names made available by the publication (1920) of Part I of
Kharosthi Inscriptions discovered by Sir Aurel Stein in Chinese Tur-
kestan by A. M. Boyer, E. J. Rapson and E. Senart. The large num-
ber and variety of the names permitted a morphological study, a
way of approach which is ‘more or less practical even in the case
of an etymologically unknown language. The general conclusion
was that the substrate dialect was Tibeto-Burman, perhaps in some
points less closely related to actual Tibetan than to others of the
linguistic family. The term ‘Khotan’ in the title of the paper and
the fact that in the contents no distinction was made between the
Khotan kingdom and any other region along the southern route may
perhaps be ‘excused on the grounds (I) that, despite the clear ex-
position in Sir Aurel Stein’s Serindia (pp.” 219-220, 318-345), the
importance of the distinction was not yet recognized, as is otherwise
also manifest, (2) that all the Kharogthi documents edited in the
said Part | came from a region which subsequently, atleast, apper-
tained to the Khotan kingdom, and (3) that the names explicitly
connected in the documents with Khotan are not morphologically
discrepant. There was however, a number of mistakes in deta
requiring to be explicitly abjured,‘’ and in certain spellings the edi-
tion, using transcriptions since shown to be unreliable, was followed
without question.

The strength of the prepossession in favour of Iranian, supported
by the presence in the documents of a modest number of terms pro-
bably or certainly Iranian, some few perhaps definitely from Khotan,
may. perhaps help to account for the conviction expressed by Pro-
fessor Konow (in ‘Ein neuer Saka-Dialekt,’ Berlin Academy Sitzun-
gsberichte, 1935, pp. 772-823, see p. 792 and n. 1), who declaring
himself not convinced by the etymology of the title cojhbo as men-
tioned supra, identifies the word confidently with an appellation
cazba, applied to a person in several of his Maralbashi Saka ‘docu-
ments. In regard to this it may be remarked that (1) there is no

50 Silpoga (.ka), pp. 45, 62, 68, kilma, p. 49, palpi, p. 61,—these corrected
in Acta Orientalia, XII, p. 68, XIII, pp. 46, 623; sothamgha, p, 51—
corrected, Act. Or., XII, p. 45, XIII, p. 62; ajhate, p. 59, tanuvaga,
Pp. 49, 57, 6l—Iranian and Prakrit; Khrom Ge-tar, p. 65—see infra, p. 73;
Bhotinagara, p, 49. Pirova, pp. 46-7, 57, 61—discussed elsewhere. Seo also
remark infra, p. 77.

4

Google
70 F. W. THOMAS.

evidence that cazba is a title, official or otherwise, and not a prefixed
surname of another kind, (2) Maralbashi is separated from the
nearest point where cojhbo is attested by c. 300 miles of impassable
desert in a direct line and much more by any practical route, and
cazba is not attested anywhere between, (3) in date cazba is posterior
to cojhbo, as regards attestation, by some c. 500 years (or more),
(4) cazba has two a’s where cojhbo has two o’s. It is, no doubt,
true that etymological connections can overleap spaces and times;
but demonstration of them should not, one would think, do so,
and clearly it should not neglect such difference in the vowels.
If it should eventually appear that cazba is connected with cojhbo,
that could only be, one would suppose. through borrowing from
a common source.

In these circumstances we can appreciate the independent
judgment of Professor Liiders, who from a study [Acta Orientalia,
XVIII (1939), pp. 26-34] of the names in connection with phonological
matters concludes as follows :—

‘The preceding observations do not, of course, in any way
claim to exhaust the question as to the language to which
those foreign names belong. I was concerned only to draw
attention to a point which seems to have been hitherto little
or not at all regarded and which perhaps may some day
contribute to a solution of the question. That the language
is, as Burrow seems inclined to assume, the Tochari appears
to me as little credible as its connection with the Tibetan,
which Thomas conjectured. That we are concerned with an
Eastern-Asian language is to me, indeed, probable, and | might
hold it for not excluded that some at least of the names belong
to the Chinese linguistic branch’ [then follow a few particulars).

If our old and respected colleague had had his attention drawn to
the article published in 1926, he would, no doubt, have ‘admitted;
what perhaps is undeniable, that the matter of the names had been
treated at considerable length and somewhat systematically from
the point of view which he mentions: and he might*even have
allowed that some particular matters, such as final -e and -i, in their
Declensional relation to -aya, -eya and -iya, the frequency of names
in -ge. etc., had received attention, and further, that the system of
the nomenclature had been contemplated. It cannot be said that
Professor Liiders’ view is in general concurrence with that put
forward in the article, and some scrutiny of it may be permissible.
But first a word may be interpolated concerning the theory of
Dr. Burrow, to which he refers.

Google
THE EARLY POPULATION OF LOU-LAN-SHAN.SHAN ay

From what has been cited supra it is indubitable that the Lou-lan
people had contacts on the north with the Chii-shih (Guchen-Turfan)
kingdom, where the language was rather certainly ‘Tokhari’. On
thé north-west also, if the little states. of Mo-shan, Wei-hsii and
Wei-li (the two last, at any rate, usually connected with Karashahr)
were also of ‘Tokhari’ speech, there was some slender chain of
‘Tokhari’ linking Lou-lan to the known ‘Tokhari’ areas of Karashahr
and Kuca. Thus Lou-lan might be supposed a further link in the
chain, ‘and the words akratsa and kitsaitsa mentioned supra might
be regarded as linguistic evidence of connection. Dr. Burrow”,
however, admitting the paucity of such lexical evidences, seems to
lay most stress upon phonological similarity, such as lack (not affirmed
as absolute) of voiced consonants, aspirates, and spirantic x0 f, and
of v, palatalization of I, n, and perhaps t, before i, also elisions of
vowels: he adduces, further, the use of certain suffixes. Dr. Burrow’s
rapidly stated evidences could not be examined except at consider-
able length and with close regard to their correctness, completeness
and validity. The absence of mediae in the Shan-shan language
seems highly questionable: lack of spirants z 6 f, of v and h,
together with regular insertion of y between certain consonants and
-i or -e, appears in a Tibeto-Burman language not remote from
Lou-lan and partly in Tibetan itself. The matter of the suffixes
will in part be considered infra. Here, as the theory is still rather
vague, it may be relevant to make three general observations: (1) The
‘Tokhari’ language is not known to us, except for a few names
of perhaps that origin in impossible Chinese transcriptions, until a
period posterior by c. 400 agitated years to the Kharogthi documents.
(2) the language was in all probability intrusive at some period in
Chinese Turkestan and is likely to owe some of its remarkable phone-
tic and other peculiarities to a native substrate, and (3) if its highly
complex structure existed contemporaneously with the Kharosthi,
the latter should have shown some definite traces of it. Unfortunately

we have not for any period any appreciable quantity of ‘Tokhari’
personal names.

Returnit

to Professor Liiders’ exposition, we cannot contest
the supposition that some of the personal names in the documents
may be Chinese. But there are limits to this: it should be remem-
bered that from Krorayina have come more than 1000 Chinese
documents contemporary with the Kharogthi, and that these contain

51 Seo JRAS, 1935, pp. 667-675, The Lunguage of the Kharostht Docu.
ments..., (1987), pp. viii-ix.

Google
12 , F.W. THOMAS

numerous Chinese personal names, the forms of which seem to have
been perfectly intelligible, for the most part, to the accomplished
editors.’ The identification of Chinese names in rhe Kharogthi
would therefore be to Sinologist scholars not so difficult that a
considerable quantity of them could escape detection. This there-
fore could be put to an early test: non-Sinologists can somewhat
help themselves reflecting that no such names can contain a ‘ouffix’.
The phonology does not seem promising.

As a curiosity, it may be noted that per contra one or two Shan-
shan native names occur in the Chinese. Thus there is a ‘Kun Na-
jen of the Lou-lan state,’ who in Kharogthi would perhaps have
been Kunasena (a frequently recurring name), and an often mention-
ed Ma-li, clearly identical with a likewise often mentioned cu-pu
Ma, who may be a namesake of the Maharaja Mahiri and perhaps
also of a Kharogthi Mariérr[ga] ."*

Professor Liiders, in holding (p. 32) that the majority of the
names were really dissyllabic and that in origin they were neither
n, may be considered, more especially in view of
his reference to Chinese, to approximate to the view that the lan-
guage was of the monosyllabic kind. But this is not explicitly stated,
and in fact Professor Liiders speaks not of Chinese, but of the Chinese
linguistic branch.

52 Seo the above-noted publications of Chavannes and Conrady.

53 Seo Conrady, op. cit., p. 98 (Kunasena), p. 191 (Mariérr). Ma Li
is mentioned on pp. 83, 88,94 (‘of Lou-lan’), 97,140; and cu.pu Ma, pp. 91, 98,
140, is regularly identified by Conrady as ‘Ma (Li’), which seems correct,
because in Chavanres nos, 746 and 747 a ‘cu-pu Ma-Li’ is named, in no. 741
entitled also ‘charged with the administration of the pass’; in Conrady,
p. 135, is mentioned a ts’ung-yiian-wei, Ma Li, possibly again the same person.

The oxpression cu-pu (tsiu-b’ue, Karlgren, nos. 1244, 764) is in the
documents regularly translated (‘le comptable’=‘responsible’ or ‘accountant’)
by Chavannes, but not elsewhere, in its slightly modifed occurrence as an
official title, 152 A.D., in the state of (Kh)yii-mi, tho eastern neighbour of
Khotan: here ho writes (T’oung-pao, IL. viii, p. 173) tebou-pouo, the character
being Karlgren, nos. 1244 and 764 (téiv-b’4k). Conrady never translates.
‘The difference betwoen the Chinese character for b’uo and b’dk being minute,
it seoms likely thet in both cases the same native title is transoribed, a
fact of some significance in view of the situation of the two places, Krorayina
and (Kh) yil-mi, adjoining the eastern and western extremities of the Shan-
shan. state.

Google INIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
THE EARLY POPULATION OF LOU-LAN-SHAN-SHAN 3

At this point some facts may perhaps be usefully adduced. In
the J.R.A.S. 1928, pp. 91-96, has been published a considerable
collection of personal names of c. Vilth-VIllth centuries A.D. be-
longing to the Tun-huang region. Passing over those which” are
Tibetan, we find that (1) the personal names are nearly all dissyllabic
and (2) they are mostly preceded by. a surname, usually a gentile or
clan name, which gives us two types—

(I) fora man: Bam Kun-tse, Koag Tam-tam
(2), for a woman: Son Sam-fat, Koag-za Ji-lim
The za following Kvag in (2) is certainly a Tibetan addition, since
it was almost universal in formal names of Tibetan wives and other
simply=bza, ‘woman," ‘wife.’ Samfiai is certainly
Chinese: it means ‘Third-woman (sc. daughter?),’ this numerical
type having many examples; and Son is the family or clan name-
The reduplication form, Tam-tam, is common perhaps not under
all gentile heads. Most numerously and widely represented is the
type Kun-tse, with tse as second member, more especially if we
include those with tshe. Since tse/tshe does not appear in names
of women, it may mean ‘son’; but then, unless we are assured that
the name is Chinese, in which case the -tse is probably
tzii, ‘son’, a doubt may arise, since both ‘Tokhari’ and S:
can furnish a se, sa, meaning ‘son’ and therewith a possible origin
of the Kharogthi Prakrit -se, -seva and: -sena. Of the dissyllabic
names such as Ji-lim, which have not a stereotyped second syllable,
many could, no doubt, be detected by scholars as Chinese; and in
some vases of flowery names of women, e.g. Hva-sim, ‘Flowei
mind’, this may be conjectured even by an outsider. But it
likely that a proportion of the names may have belonged to ‘natives’
of various local races.

The old Tibetan names of pre-Buddhist type, whereof we have
perhaps some thousand, are likewise mainly diseyllabic, such ag
Klu-legs, ‘Dragon-good’, Dpal-bzai, ‘Majesty-great’ (or ‘kind’,
Rayal-gzigs, ‘Victory-look’, Myes-tshab, ‘Grandfather-substitute’,
Stag-akyes, ‘Tiger-born’ (or ‘male’). The meaning is usually clear;
but in some cases one or other of the components is of unascertained
meaning, or there are mixtures comparable to Sanskrit Asvayupta,
Greek Pheidippides. The , (prefixed) surnames may be gentile or
in the case of Srori-btean Sgam-po’s famous minister Mgar
(or Hear) ‘stoi-ttean, or merely local, as in Tshe-spon Tre-gon, or
very widely territorial or national, e.g. Rma-, ‘(of) the Hoang-ho
(river country),’ _Khrom Ge-sar, ‘Ge-sar of Khrom’, Li-, ‘Khoteni’.

Google
4 F, W. THOMAS

When there is an official or similar title, e.g. Blon, ‘Councillor’,
Jo-co, ‘Chief’, the surname is usually omitted.

In view of these usages, showing no trace of ‘suffixes’, the
question of suffixes in the Shan-shan names becomes crucial. The
difficulty is due in-part to different ways of approach on the part
of scholars, according as one regards the matter from the Indianit
side, another from some other linguistic quarter. But the difference
does not begin at once. Thus Professor Liiders considers (p. 33)
that many final a’s after consonants in Shan-shan names are
Indianizing additions; and here there will be general agreement,
in principle, on the part of those who remember the Indian practice
at all periods. surunga (Gk. siirifg-), Cina (Tsin), tikina (Turk
tegin), Toramana (Tirman), Mahaémada (Muhammad), Akabbara
(Akbar), Moksamilara (Max Miiller). But, when we come to cases
with vowels, e.g. -eya, iya, -ua, on the Indian side, e.g. Yaua(sa)
(yabgu), Mahiphatiena (Instrumental of Mahipati), the Prakrit
view begins to posit a lost consonant and we may notice the actual
occurrence of yavuga, which however, is ambiguous. Then, in the
Kharogthi there are numerous words, whereof Professor Liiders
has given long lists, in which -aya has become -e and -iya and -ika
-i; and this leads to the supposition that the longer forms, where
found, are mere writings, the shorter forms being those actually
spoken. In some particular instances an objection may be raised:
thus striya does not seem to be, as suggested on p. 28, a mere
writing of stri; its Genitive striyae shows that it is an -@ stem, parallel
to niga, vaca, disa. Sriya, madara, gaiid, and other feminines of the
Prakrit period. That the forms in -eya, -iya, are merely writings
is evident in various ways, from alternation and from Genitives such
as Sugesa, palpisa; but Genitives and Instrumentals such as Vuruaga
(never Vuruga) from Vuru, palpiyena (never palpina) from palpi,
seem to show that after u and i the a- declension was convenient
in those ca in the above-noted yauasa and Mahiphatiena,

In the 1926 article also the -e, -i, -o, -u, were taken as the
terminations in the native names and -a also was widely admitted;
it was assumed that their existence, if proved, was self-justificatory.
But in nearly all cases they were regarded not as being in them-

54 Soe Pischel, Grammatik der PrakritSprachen, § 413, and note that
the Bhandarkar-Fleot explanation (JRAS. 1908, pp. 476-7) of bhied in the
expression silévigadabhicd, occurring in the Rummindei inscription, as con-
nected with Sanskrit bhitti, ‘wall,’ may after all be correct, if we deri
bhicd, not from bhittikd, but from bhittya,

Google

THE EARLY POPULATION OF LOU-LAN-SHAN-SHAN 6

selves ‘suffixes’, but as belonging to suffixal syllables, e.g. -ta, -te,
-to, with a preceding consonant. The existence of some such
‘suffixes’ may be taken as generally admitted, e.g. the -(m)ca,
expressing plurality and the -imci, signifying connection with a
place: the latter is perhaps so ancient that it may possibly be
recognized in the. name of the Yiieh-chih, i.e. the Nwet (Tangut)
people.** Whether Professor Liiders would admit the existence
of further ‘suffixes’ is perhaps not clear, his exposition being
presented as selective, not as exhaustive; thus, in affirming the
priority of Cgito to Cigito and Lpipta to Lpipita (p. 33) he does not
raise the question whether the -to and -ta are, or are not ‘suffixes’.
That in any case they are separate elements is proved by the existence
of evidently related names. Cigana and Cgoya in the one case,
Lpipaae, Lpipamga, Lpipana, Lpipama, Lpipa, Lpipga. etc., in
the other.

In regard, however, to such alternatives as Sugi/Sugita,
Kupsu/Kupguta, which sometimes, no doubt, as Professor Liiders

55 That Tangut was properly a place-name (like Thogara) appears from
the well-known reference (see Thomsen, Inscriptions de UOrkhon, pp. 128,
178 (86) by the Northern.Turk khagan Bilgé to his invasion of it (Taiut)
during his 27th year (709-710 A.D.). The word cannop here refer to
tho Tibetans: during the period in gestion the Tibetans were in general
accord with the Turks, and they were not in occupation of any part of
Kanu, their first attack upon Kwa-chou taking place in 727 A.D., when
they hoped for Turk co-operation: moreover, the name of Tibet in the same
inscription is Tiipitt (see Index), It ie credible that the Turks, who in the
samo passage mention the Sogdians under an ancient form (Sogdak) of their
name, should have preserved the old Chinese form of the name Ta-yiieh
(-ci), as known to the Hsiung-nu. The Yiieh (Nwet)-ci will have been the
People of the Yiieh (Nwet) country (or region), which does not, however,
preclude the possibility that the region derived its name from the, or a,
tribe, the two notions being inseparable. ‘The name Yiieh (Nwet).ci may have
been one not recognized by the people themselves, but given by their
neighbours. A, perhaps not fatal, objection to the above conjecture must be
seen in the fact that the Ytieh-ci, while still in Kan-su, do not appear to
have beon known to the Hsiung-nu as Ta-yiiehci: seo the communications to
the Chinese translated in De Groot, Die Hunnen der vorchristlichen Zeit,
P. 76 (176 B.O.), and Die Westland Chinas... p. 9 (c. 140 B.O.). Was that

form usod even by the Chinese prior to the foundation of the Yiieh-chih kingdom
in Baktria?

Google
76 F, W. THOMAS

points out, designate an identical person“ it is clearly stated that the
shorter forms are derived from the longer, Sugit, Kupgut (the -a being
understood as a Prakrit addition), by pearance of -t, which
had been affirmed in some instances of Indian names, e.g. Jiva-rakgi-
But there does not seem to be ground for positing any loss of final
consonants in the native language; and the history of personal
names elsewhere does not confirm an explanation of the (supposed)
shortening as of a phonetic character: it is not through a phonetic
process that in English William and James become Will, Willy,
Willie, Jamie. Also, as regards the supposed forms Sugit, Kupsut
without -a, it seems unfortunate that they should have no connection
with such as Lpipta, where Professor Liiders does not discard the
-a, and rather numerous others, e.g. Kupsimta, Kusamta, Lpimirta,
Toagirsta, which seem to merit a like treatment.

Another matter which is explicit in Professor Liiders’ exposition
(p. 34) is insertion of inorganic vowels: thus not only Cigito
derived from Cgito, and not vice versa, as one would have been
inclined to suppose,” but Mafigeya, Kolpige, (despite Kolpiga),
Kalpigeya (despite Kalpiga), Malpigeya, Palugeya (despite Palvisae,
Paluvisae), Camasu (despite Camaga, Camaka, Camasgriae, Camimta,
Camo, etc.), are substitutes in writing for Maf-ge', Kol-ge', Kal-ge',
Mal-ge', Pal-ge',Cam-su respectively. In all these cases the real spoken
form was diseyllab

In the 1926 article -ta, -to, -ge, and many other terminal syllables
were regarded as ‘suffixes’; and considerable lists of examples, which
now, in consequence of the publication of Parts II and Ill of the
edition, could be amplified,** were given under each head. The
examples were roughly divided into ‘Primary’ and ‘Secondary,’ the
latter being for the most part names of three or more syllables, fre-
quently with the second syllable also recognizable as a ‘suffix’; but

56 Itcannot, however, be assumed in general that in cases such as Ari
Sugi and Ari Sugita the identical surname suffices to prove identity of per-
sons, Frequently a gentile surname restricts, or even dictates, the choice of
personal names, and it is perhaps specially productive of similarities of name,
such as between Sugi and Sugita, in the group. .

57 The loss of vowels, as posited in the 1926 article (p. 65), might have
been expected to commend itself to those who, with Professor Liiders (p. 27),
“regard Butsena, Butsenga, for instance, as really derived from Budhasena
and Budhasenika, and not as HobsonJobsonisms,

58 Unfortunately the lists contain a considerable number of errors and
could not be used without circumspection,

Google

THE EARLY POPULATION OF LOU-LAN-SHAN-SHAN n

some instances where an original second syllable had lost its vowel,
e.g. Kamcege from Kamcage, were reckoned as ‘Secondary.’ Of -ge
‘Primary’ over 20 examples were given, of -ge ‘Secondary’ about 15.
By thie procedure the root forms of the language are reduced to
monosyllables, and it was concluded that the language was of the
monosyllabic type. The conclusion is, indeed, not inevitable: in
the English word ‘denationalization’ the removal of formatives leaves
as the root basis only the syllable na, and even in that the -a may
have been a ‘determinative’ (gen-a); yet the early Indo-European
was not monosyllabic. The clearness, however, with which the
structure can be seen in the Shan-shan names seems to indicate a
stage still monosyllabic or an early period of transition. The accu-
mulation of formatives exemplified, e.g. by Yipicga, if=Yi-pi-ca-ga,
and the exiguity of the ‘root’, yi, are no objection: such accumula-
tion was regarded by B. H. Hodgson (JASB. XXII, 1850, pp. 132-5)
as an essential characteristic of the large groups of Asiatic languages;
cf. what is stated in the Linguistic Survey of India, I. i., pp. 36-7,
concerning Munda languages. The slightness of the root, yi (or i),
is, of course, paralleled by many Chinese wor
ing and by not a few in Tibeto-Burman :
yig, ‘writing,’ ‘letter,’ was originally yi-ge, a form well known in texts.

A marked peculiarity of the Shan-shan suffixes is the vowel ablaut
seen in -ta, -te, -to. From the lists some few examples may be
quoted—

a e “3°
‘Primary’: Apta, Yita(ga, etc.) Amte, Pite(ya): Amto, Pito(e)
Spirta;
‘Secondary’: Sirjhata (from Sirsa); Sirsate(yae); | Cokamto(ae) (Coka
Lpimirta Vugite (cf. Vugato (cf.
(from Lpimira) ; Vugica) ; Vugaca, etc.)
Tamcgota Bhurimte(ya);_ Tsugamto (cf.
(from Tamego) 5 Tougeta, etc.)

If this vowel-variation were confined to the ¢ ‘suffixes’, it might
conceivably be regarded as accidental. But it recurs in other cases :
we find—
ka/ke/ko: — Carka; Tsurke(ya); Carko, etc.

Sugika. Ciyoka, Lpimirka; Sugiko, Samgkolya), etc.

ga/ge/go: Suga(e), Yapga Lamga: Apge, Yipge, Sugo(e);
Yipgo. Lamgo, etc.

Tamega, Bhugelaga; Tamcge, Catmage, Parsuges
Tamego, Bhugelugo, ete

Google
8 F, W. THOMAS

ca/ce/co: — Pgeca, Piteca, Vugaca, Kapoca}Argice(ya);
Pgoco, ete.
na/ne/no: — Pulna, Cipna; Somne, ete.
Pgena, Kacana, Lpimirna; Kacano, etc.

ma/me/mo: Cama(érr; etc,), Cima(ga); Kulme; Camo, Kulmo, etc.
Cinama, Sugama; Sagamo, etc.
ra/re/t0: Catara(ka); Catre, Rutre; Catro, Rutro, etc.
Lpimira, Panagara; Cakare. etc.
la/le/lo: Yila(ga); Yile, Kole(ca); Kolo(e), etc. \
Anjila, Cimala, Bhugela(ga); Mogale(ya), Bakule;
Jivalo, Amjilo, etc.
sa/se/so: Sirsa, Prega(mdha); Prese, etc.
Calmasa, Catisa, Kugesa, Priyosa, etc.

It will perhaps be granted that in the ‘Secondary’ use the ‘suffixes,
with their initial consonant, were in real, and indeed active, currency.
In many ‘primary’ forms also, such as Kapga, Tsurke, Cipna, Kulme,
Catma, Catro, Sirsa, where the preceding syllable ends in a conso-
nant, a like assent may be anticipated. But in forms such as Moga/
Moge, Pite/Pito, Kofie, Kame, Camo, Kale, Puse, it may seem not
all clear that the consonant does not belong to the ‘root’ syllable,
in which case it would be necessary to admit ‘suffixes’ consisting
of a vowel: and it may be further remarked that -i and -u forms of
the ‘suffixes’, noted in the lists, e.g, Kaki (Kake), Amgi(Amgo),
Aptagi, Cimi(da), Amti, Kori, Yili, Ralsi(ta), Parku(ta), Tagu,
Pacgu, Lustu, Kapu(mca), Camsu, Lpimsu, havé been passed over.*
Provisionally, however, this question is not particularly urgent:
80 long ‘suffix’-variation ma/me/mo is a certainty, it i
necessary, until we are considering the origin of the vowel-varia
in the ‘suffix’, to decide whether the same variation occurs in
other situations also, Cama, Came, Camo, being from Cam-a, Cam-e,
Cam-o. But it may be noted that in the current usage the vowel-
variation must, by reason of its frequency, have been felt to have
some significance: thus, since the Central-Asian languages were

not

59 The -i forms are inconvenient because of the possibility that some of
them are Prikritiq; the -u forms are comparatively fow. On the Tibeto-
Burman side also there are uncertainties: it is not certain that the Locative
suffixes—ru and —su in Tibetan are connected rith ra and sa or that the
—ou suftiix is connected with —ga.

Google
THE EARLY POPULATION OF LOU-LAN-SHAN-SHAN 79

prone to use ‘honorifics’, Cigito may have been a more respectful
form than Cigita.

The significant matter here is that the same vowel-v:
largely with the same suffixes, is found in Tibetan and other Tibeto-
Burman dialects of north-eastern ‘Tibet’. In the conjugation of
verb-roots ending in a consonant this ancient ablaut is exhibited
in all manuals of Tibetan, e.g. byed, ‘do’, byas, ‘done’, byos, ‘do’,
hdren, tran, drons, ‘lead’: but it often also occurs otherwise, giving
alternative verb-roots shown in the lexicon: sfieg/sfiog, ‘follow’,
gcad/bcad/gcod, ‘cut’, ‘decide’, hgal. ‘disagree’, ‘err’, hgol,
‘separate’, ‘stray’, gtod/gtad, ‘hand over’, sog/gsag, ‘collect’,
sems/bsam, ‘think’, (som-fii, ‘doubt’),*° sel/gsal, ‘make’ or ‘be clear’.
The a/o ablaut is frequent in connection with verb-roots ending
in the vowel.a, not only in Imperatives, such as Itos, ‘see’, from
Ita, zos, ‘eat’, from za, but also in independent words, Itos, ‘look’,
zlo/bzla, ‘call’, zlos, ‘charm’, ‘spell’, chos, ‘religion’, from hehah,
‘prepare’, ‘institute’, This a/o alternation is seen markedly in
the two words ra, ‘enclosed space,’ sa, ‘land,’ ‘spot,’ on their way
to becoming ‘suffixes’: thus the ra of Idum-ra, ‘garden’, btson-ra,
‘prison’, becomes ro when denoting a large area, as in Cog-ro;
‘the Cog country’, Myaf-ro, ‘the Myan-country’; and sa, ‘place’,
is so in so-mtshams, ‘land-boundary’, fan-so, ‘inferior position’,
khab-so, ‘mansion’, gtad-so, ‘a refuge’. The very ancient suffix
ma, found perhaps also in Burmese, competes with mo over a wide
field of denotations in Adjectives, names of actions, agents, parts of
the body, instruments, plants, nature-features (fii-ma, ‘sun’, skar-ma,
‘star’, ‘mo, ‘day’, etc., etc.). The pluralizing suffix-cag (probably
from -ca-ge) in pronouns and elsewhere alternates with -cog.

There is a fair number of old Tibetan words in -ga (cho-ga,
‘method,’ etc.) and -ka, some in -ge fe, ‘writing,’ sen-ge, ‘lion,’
etc.); and the antiquity of -ga/-ka is shown by the fact that in VIIIth-
IXth century MSS. connected with the Koko-nor region it is normal
in relation to places, e.g. in sa-ga, ‘belonging to earth,’ gnam-ka,
‘belonging to heaven,” Tson-ka, later the birth-place of the famous
Tson-kha-pa, which suggests that some of the later words with -kha,
like sfiin-kha (and ga) once had the same. But the most interesting
of such early ‘suffixes,’ of which there are in normal Tibetan a few
examples, e.g. rgyal-ta, ‘a fire,’ khwa-ta, ‘crow,’ %al-ta, ‘service,’
is that with t, whence we have the three forms ta/te/to. Ta occurs

60 Le. som.giis, ‘thoughte-two,’

Google
80 F. W, THOMAS

ted, Btshan-ta, Legs-kort-ta,

in a few names of the period in«
Legs-kri-ta, where it is evidently equivalent to the to in certain con-
temporary names, Btsan-to-re, ‘P\ Sgra-yas-to, ‘sound (voice?
fame?)-unlimited.’ But a much wider prospect is opened when we
turn to an ancient Tibeto-Burman language of the Koko-nor region.
Here the Tibetan noun-verb suffix pa/ba is wanting, and its place is
taken by -ta, as in chos-ta, ‘a beginning,’ béi-ta, ‘a dead man,’ hées-ta.
‘the knowing’; and we have such forms as fo-sto (=nos-to), ‘friend,’
and to commonly occurs as a verb-suffix at the end of a sentence,

as in stor-to, ‘were scattered.’ The last-cited usage is evidently iden-

tical with the well-known Tibetan Preterite ending to, e.g. in bstan-

to, ‘showed’; and this enables us to see that the not less frequent
te, e.g. in hphom-te-dran ‘are led conquered,’ is identical with the
common Tibetan Gerund-suffix -te (de, ste). Nor can the inherent
meaning of the ‘suffix’ be hidden from us. Ta imply the verb
‘be’; and as an auxiliary it is still used in eastern and north-eastern
‘Tibet,’ where we have such forms of the Present Tense as rig-ta,
*(I) see (it), rig-me-ta, ‘do not see it,’ Rockhill, Diary of a Journey,

p. 270. The te, de, of the Tibetan Gerund clearly is a form of the

same verb, with the signification ‘being’; and in the language above

mentioned it imilarly used and also as a merely Adjective-forming
suffix: the to- form is perhaps merely a more emphatic ta. Btshan-
ta may thus be in relation to Btshan-to (-re, another ‘is'—word, very
common (red) in ordinary southern Tibetan) precisely what in Shan-
shan Cigita was to Cigito.

As was noted in the 1926 article (p. 55, cf. p. 76) the vocalic
variation must have had an origin or origins? but we can hardly
expect to explain it or them, since the alternation seems to belong
to the arcana of the Tibeto-Burma dialects of ‘Tibet,’ at any rate.
Nor could we expect it to be manifested equally in all the different
suffixes: we can only endeavour to define the actual usages where
we find them, and even that can be done only vaguely. The a/o
alternation we have found in normal Tibetan current—

(1) in the very ancient m-suffix,
(2) in the plural suffix ca (g), co (g),
(3) in certain -a verb-roots, such as za/z0, ‘eat,”

61 The same verb, ta, to, with the meaning ‘be,’ ‘become,’ is used also
in several Tibeto-Burman languages of the Himalayan group; see Linguistic
Survey of India, IILi, pp. 185, 192, 495, 445, 456, 463.

Google

THE EARLY POPULATION OF LOU-LAN-SHAN-SHAN 81

(4) in certain nouns, e-g. ra/ro, ‘bounded space,’ sa/so,
‘earth,’ ‘place,’ ‘station or grade.”

Here we do not seem able to adduce relevant forme with -e (re(s),
‘a turn,’ and re(d), ‘be,” may not be connected with ra); but the
ga/ka suffix has a féw Tibetan parallels in -ge, and, since, as form-
ing Adjectives. it is probably of pronominal origin, the go/ko of
hdi-ko, ‘this same,’ de-ko, ‘that very,’ will be akin, more especially
in view of de-ka, ‘that very,’ gitis-ka, giti-ga, ‘the two,’ etc.—in the
above-mentioned language of the north-east ge is a particle of
enormous frequency, sometimes found conjoined with the ta- suffix
in a way exemplified in the following passage—

hde-me-htah-g-ron-hyed-ge-ta-hwa-ste-htah,
“the fires of prosperity, with cooling or dying emissions,
are done for’ (conjectural translation).
Here the first htah is appended to the compound hde-me, ‘proeperity-
fire’; the second is attached to the attribute g-ron-hyed with an inter-
vening ge; the third acts as the verb ‘are,” ending the sentence. In
hwarste (i.e. hwas-te) we have an equivalent of the Tibetan Gerund
bas-te, ‘being done for.’ The accumulation of forms of the ta-
suffix has evidently a rhetorical effect. The combination -ge-ta is
reminiscent of the Shan-shan name Lalugeta, in which both the -ge
and the -ta are indubitably ‘suffixes.’

This remarkable vowel-ablaut, common to the Shan-shan langu-
age and dialects of north-eastern Tibet and to a considerable
extent fourid in connection with identical ‘suffixes’, seems to
demonstrate come close morphological affinity. It suggests a search
for lexical correspondences. Unfortunately the Proper Names,
which constitute the bulk of the material, are the most unpromising
field for any serious inquiry of that kind; and the other available
il, as has been noted, to include any of the important
objects of nature or notions of common life, all these being mentioned
by Prakrit terms. But certainly we have a few place-names ending
in a -sa, which might be equivalent to Tibeto-Burman 9a, ‘earth’,
‘ground’, ‘place’, ‘residence’, e.g. in Lha-sa): Samarsa is definitely
a place, and so, apparently, is Bhagasa in no. 608, is also
indicated by the derivatives Bhagagaci and Bhagasemci: the four
forms Koltarsa and °sa (always a surname), Cadiyaarsa, Manasarsa,
Mantarsa, should be analogous to Samarsa. Upon this basis it was
suggested in the 1926 article (pp. 67-8) that a number of other forms
in -sa (e.g. Calmasa, Catisa, Huvisa, Palvisa etc.), were really

Google
ez ¥. W. THOMAS

residence-names applied to persons, a procedure familiar both in
the east and in the west. In connection with the expression Catisa
deviyae (nos. 46, 334) it has been suggested by Dr. Burrow (JRAS..
1935, p. 672) that -sa tends to be a feminine suffix. He admits,
however, that it is found in names of men; and in fact it is never
found in women’s names. This appeats, in fact, in the very example
Catisa deviyae, Genitive of Catisa-deviya; for the femininity is
expressed by the word deviya. and this is seen in no, 295, devi
Catisae (for Catisaae) where the order of the two terms is reversed,
and the real feminine suffix, -e. appears: Cadigaae occurs in no. 606.
The constant, almost invarible, spelling of: -isa, -isae, names with
8, not 9, seems to indicate that the sa was something more than
a suffix.

That -e was the regular feminine termination and was appended
to corresponding masculine names was shown in the 1926 article
(pp. 52-3), where a good number of examples was cited, ¢-8-
Apisae from Apisa, Namilgae from Namilga, Sarvinae from Sarvina,
Camotie from Camoti, Catoe from Cato, Sarvasrre from Sarvaérr-
In no. 110 there is a list of 10 women, all with names ending in
-e; and similarly in no. 552 a list of 8 women, apparently wives of
the persons (none of the latter with such an -e) named along with
them severally. The Genitive of this -e was -ae, as if from an -@
stem, and this Case-relation is clearly shown, for instance, in no. 719
where Camtamnoe is the Nominative and the Genitive Camtamnoae
appears, as frequently, in connection with namma (English ‘name
of’): similarly in no. 53 Camo(e) appears in the superscri iad
but Camoae nama in the text. Where the Nominative ends in -ae,
the Geni should be in -aae, as Namilgaae (no. 288); but the
awkwardness of the combination of vowels ahd the irregularities
of the syntax have led to some confusions. In no. 399 two Nomina-
tives in -ae, Cataroyae and Pacguyae, have Genitives in -ga.

In Tibeto-Burman languages it may not be possible to find an
equivalent to this feminine -e ‘suffix’, To judge from the above-

62 It is not contended that there were no feminine names without -¢:

Prikrit forms in .d might of course, be expected. As regards Tilutamae/*aae
in no, 566 it seems that the -e was presont in the Nominative; but Konuma,

Genitive Konumae, is clear in no, 46, and Sugnumae is in no. 481 (thrice)

a Genitive.
63 In tho expression Lpipe Camo Palvisae ca the -¢ of Palvisac may

have served also for Camo(e).

Google
THE EARLY POPULATION OF LOU-LAN-SHAN-SHAN 83

described use of Tibetan (b)za and Chinese niang in feminine nomen-
clature, it should be an independent word, meaning ‘woman’ or
‘daughter’: there is, however, no basis for adducing Hsi-hsia yi, i,
‘woman’ (see Laufer in T’oung-pao, Il. xvii (1916), pp. 64-5) or
Burushaski -i, ‘daughter’ (Col. Lorimer’s The Burushaski Language,
Ill, p. 12). In the Shan-shan -e names it does not appear that the
prior part was the name of the father: certainly it was not that of
the mother. A priori, a ‘family’ or ‘residence’ name would seem
likely. There does not seem to be any instance of -e appended
to a female animal’s name.

If there was, as has been here expounded, a living Tibeto-Burman
factor in the Shan-shan language, it yet does not follow that the
language was wholly of that character. Two features in the phono-
logy of the names seem adverse to that supposition. The first of
the two is the absence of the consonantal Prefixes of the Tibetan,
some of which certainly existed, though much less developed, in the
north-eastern (Ch'iang) dialects of the country: the therewith con-
nected initial aspirates, kh, ch, th, ph, seem likewise little apparent.
Secondly, the relative frequency of initial vowels and final breathed
consonants in the names, and also elsewhere, e.g, in Ap(ge), Op(ge),
Ap(ta), Cat(ma), yat(ma), ageta, Carto, is prima facie adverse. Some
historical. considerations also perhaps interpose. The Chinese evi-
dently distinguished the Lou-lan people from the Ch’iang despite
the intercourse between the two: also the settled tion, such
as it was, of the western parts (Cadota, etc.) of Shan-shan, if it was,
as Grenard surmised, concerning Chinese Turkestan in general, of
great antiquity, may have long preceded the special Ch'iang
developments of Tibeto-Burman, which in Chinese records do not
appear very early. Hence the Shan-shan language may have had
a prior, non(or hardly)-Tibeto-Burman character. If with this in
view, we should contemplate Professor Liiders’ expression ‘language
of eastern Asia,’ it would not be one of the great known languages
or groups, Chinese, Turkish, Hun, Mongol, etc., that would come
into consideration. These appeared too late in the vicinity of Chinese
Turkestan. It would be little peoples of pre-Chinese Kan-su and
and Shen-si, subsequently extinguished or Sinified, such as the ‘north-
ern Man’ and the ‘I,’ still recognized by the Chinese of the Ist cen-
tury A.D., and even later, as really existent and settled under Chinese
control. This may be found, as some relatively recent observations

Google
84 F, W. THOMAS:

suggest, not to be in disaccord with what was suggested in 1921
(JRAS., p. 279) and repeated in 1925 and 1926 as to possible connec:
tions with pre-Tibetan (sc. Mon/Man) speech in Western *

On the basis of the name-forms it does not seem at present
possible to distinguish between the Lou-lan population and that of
the more westerly (Cadota) region of Shan-shan. Even the names
explicitly from the Khotan kingdom, still further west, viz. Apge
Kanasaga, Mosana, Presamdha, Sakhaa, to which might be added
the probably place-surname Kilpagi, show no difference of type.
But the question of the population of Khotan itself in some points
special and requires a separate consideration.”

* We regret that owing to the want of types with proper diacritical marks
we have been constrained to use in the above article: @ (or a) for °; g for
ef. @; h for b’; j for j’; p for p’; t for t; v for vw’; and y for y’; in roman where
the original word containing the letter is printed in italics, and
vice versa.—Editor.

Google
Warucan=Sah
By Dr. W. B, Henning

The Manichaeans in Iran possessed a Missionary History of
which we have fragments in three languages, in Middle Persian.
Parthian, and Sogdian. A page of the Middle Persian version
was published in 1933'; it deals with the missions to the West
(under Patecius and Addai) and to Khorasan, under Mar Ammd,
More extensive is the Sogdian version, but nothing has been
published so far; it is concerned mainly with the various missions
to western countries (Patecius, Addai, Gabriab), but contains
also the beginning of the Mission of Mar Ammé. Of the Parthian
version only a few scraps have survived; two were made available
by F.W.K, Mueller,? M 48 (dealing with the Tardn-Sah*) and
M566, Three further pieces which belonged to the same manus-
cript as M 48 and M 666, make up the fragment M 216; two of
its pieces which contained a text parallel to the Middle Persian
version, were published together with it‘; the third which although
terribly mutilated is perhaps the most interesting, is given here
for the first time:

M 216 b*

Caption R |cy fryitgrwin
V frystgrwin [

.. of the Apostle of Light

ww the Apostle of Light

Recto

fry]stg p’dgyrb

] ’wd pro’n aft

[ud *by’}ws bwd u mrdwhm'n
In bud *hynd 00 *dy’n
pdw\h'd kwm’n

’h 00 00

yy sus

I’m 00

wraakoewe

[he saw] the figure of the Apostle
and fell on his face and became
unconscious. The people
were[amazed]. ‘Thereupon
[they] prayed: to us......

Tesus ...
we shall

1 Mitteliranische Manichaica aus Chinesisch-Turkestan (abbrev. Mir. Man.),

ii, 301-808.
2 Handschriftenreste, ii, 86-88.
3 See ZDMG., 90, 7.

4 Mir.Man., ii, 301-904.

5 [square brackets] indicate letters and words missing in the manuscript

(restored by the editor),
6

Google
86 W. B, HENNING

Verso
9 dyn’n 'mwg pd waryb[yh]  ...he overcame the teachings of the
10 bzg ’ndrynj’d{oo 00] (other) religions by their own evil.
1 hbz wrwe'n {’h wet) HBZA, the Werudan-S[ah said:
12 kw ‘ym kd’'m wyf’w 'r’st] what is all this talk about?

130 %wd w’xtynd Mw They said: it is ...
14 ’st byo [ but...

16 hbz* pf HBZA ...

16 a

1T AL

Since this scrap was found in close proximity to the other two
pieces registered as M 216. there can be no doubt that its contents
refer either to the mission under Addai and Patecius, or the
mission under Mar Ammé. The latter is more likely by far, in
view of the absence of any mention of a Warudan-Sah in any of
the three descriptions of the western mission which are available.
This opinion seems tebe supported by a further fragment of the
Parthian manuscript to which M 48, M 216, and M 666 belonged’.
This is a double folio registered as Ti« (=M 1306, in my number-
ing); one of its folios deals with the Taran-Sah, the other is
given here:

Recto

1[.. ]abrf we

2 gryd 00 ’wf makes, To...

B ‘st? w'd [ praised ...

4? wd ’w bg’ rd[ And Bag-Ard ...

5 pors’d hym[ Tasked ...

6 jyryfo cy bof the wisdom of Bag[-Ard?”
1 din pdgryft [ I took her right hand
8°wod ’e prw’[n and [left] her presence.
9 [p]§ sod ’hym [ Thereafter I went to
10 [sJhrys{t’n the city of ...*

6 With the help of tho originals it may be possible to produce complete
pages of these and a few other fragments,

7 Or “the wisdom of the gods’? 8 A tantalizing lacuna!

Gor gle enon

WARUGANSAB 87

Verso
u lel
2 r]ngs
18 Jud "zo
“4 h]ym o br'dr'n
16 Jog’ cw’gun dyd
16 Jg z’wr whywn ’w the improvement’ of strength
11 [shr cy w}rwe tod hym I went to [the country of Wajrué
18 wylimn’d 00°’ ..was glad, Thereupon...
19 Puyit’d hym o T stood...
20 }n bf seseee

Tt seems necessary to have the name of a country or a town in
line 17, and so it is natural to restore Jrwe (in itself a common
Parthian word,=“day”) to [w]rwe=Warut. We have now to
consider the question: where lay the country of Warué whose king
was called Warudén-Sah?

Mar Ammé’s mission was directed principally to Abarvahr, i.e.
Nisapur™, from where he proceeded to Marv’, The Sogdian version
of the Missionary History describes his success in the following
terme: ‘‘And......Abaréabr and Marv (’ri’r ZY mr [y] )...he did
manifold...for the profit of the religion, He ordained numerous
kings and rulers, grandees and noblemen, queens and ladies, princes
and princesses. He fully exposed the Buddhaship of the Prophet of
Light (i.e. Mani). He completed and fulfilled” all orders and injunc-
tions that [had been given] him by [ Mani]”. These sentences
which are omitted in the Middle Persian version, conclude the
surviving portion of the Sogdian story, except for an anticipatory
caption over the last page: mr’mw c’nkw kw¥’my pyr [="How Mar
Aumé [came to] the frontier post of Kushan", On the other hand,
Mar Ammé’s adventures at the “frontier post of Kushan’, where he
met a somewhat unsympathetic spirit whose name was Bag-Ard",

9 Possibly pd)yeg.

10 Abstract noun (ending -wn as in Sogdian) from why “better.”

1 Mir.Man., ii, 308; ZDMG., 90, 8.

12 His journey to Zamb on the Oxus (Mir.Man., iii, 858; ZDMG., 90, 8)
tock place much later, after Mani’s death. It has no immediate connection
with the events described in the Missionary History.

13 The common MPers, word for “spirit, ghost” (to@.23) has been confused
with the name of the Oxus(wodir3) by Schaeder, Iranica, 76,

14 On this name see now H.W. Bailey, Zoroastrian problems in the ninth.
century books, 67 sqq. It could also be read as Bagard, It is not imposible

Google
88 W. B. HENNING

are detailed in the Middle Persian version which in its turn breaks
off in the middle of the story.

‘The two Parthian fragments published here continue the story.
‘M 1306 comes first: Mar Ammé succeeds in reconciling the spirit
Bag-Ard who at first was refusing him admittance into the countries
whose frontier she guarded, i.e. the Kushan country, the western
part of which was at that time (about 265-270 A.D.) a dependency
of the Sassanian state, Or more prosaically expressed: Mar Ammt,
after some difficulties, succeeded in entering the Kushan country.
After passing the frontier, he went to the city of X. (name lost in
the manuscript) where he organised a Manichaean community.
When it was well established (lines 14-16), he proceeded to the
country of Warud. ‘The story is taken up by M 216 bnow: with
the help of miracles etc, Mar Ammé becomes the talk of the country,
and in the end the attention of HBZ’ (Havaza?), the Werutan-Sah,
is drawn to hie activities,

Unfortunately we do not know for certain where the ‘‘fron-
tier post of Kushan™ (i.e. the frontier between Khorasan and
the then Persian dependency of Kushan) was situated in the tbird
century, But we may conjecture that it lay in the same district
where in the succeeding centuries the frontier between the Sassanian
state and the Kushan/Hephthalite country was established, namely
(according to Marquart) at Talagin, halfway between Marv-i-Rod
and P&ryab (Daulet-abad), It would thus appear probable that the
country of Warué lay in or close to Gozganan and Gharéistan, or at
any rate to the south-west of Balkh, It is interesting to notice that
a town of that region, Zimat, is mentioned in a Manichaean Sogdian
text, in connexion with the Kushano-Sogdian goddess Nana’*;

that the namo of the town faye’g5« (Ptolemy, 6,8,16) is connected; Darmeste-
ter compared it with Avestan Vagkarata.

15 Of. Schaeder, Iranica, 75.

16 Sco my article in the forthcoming number of the JRAS., 1944, part 3.
It is, however, doubtful that the name in the tax-list lbn Khurdadbih, 37,9,
represents Zimat as claimed by Marquart, Branjahr 227. As it ocours
after Wagird Marquart was forced to the assumption that tho original order
of the list had been disturbed; this can no longer be maintained if Minorsky
is right in placing ‘Andamin (?) in the Lesser Pamir (Hudad al.‘dlam, 332 s9.).
But possibly the namo of Zimat can be recognized in the mysterious yA dew
ws‘derk, Ibn Khurdadbih 36,17, of which'the second part undoubtedly re-
presente sia jzh=Jazza, Gaza, Géak (not noticed by Marquart, 218, but ef.
P. 86), while the former could be restored as 4, j 2ymd=Zimad.

Google :

WARUGAN-SAH 89

this town lay, according to Hiian-ts‘ang, ‘‘south-west from Balkh
in a corner of the Snowy Mountains.”

Let us now consider what evidence we can glean from non-
Manivhaean sources, Most important perhaps is the reference to
a Waruéan-Sah (wlwo'n MLK’) in the Great Inscription of Shapur I
(oud of line 29) which was set up in A.D. 262 (according to my
calculations)'’, about the time when Mar Ammo set out on his
journey to the Eastern countries. He is mentioned close to the
beginning of the long list of dignitaries who contributed to the
success of Shapur’s reign’, after the king of Mosul (Norsirakan),
the king of Kerman, aud the Queen of Mesene, but his name cannot
be read with certainty: dstklé shpwhry ’méspy(P); possibly
Amaéasp was his personal name, and Dastkert-Sahpuhr an addi-
tional honorific name given to him by Shapur', This Amaéasp
may have been-the predecessor of Havazi whom Mar Ammé met
(assuming that HBZ’ was a personal name and not a title). It is
true that the inscription gives no clue to the location of the
Woaruéan-Sah”; but it indicates that this prince ruled over a
country somewhere at the confines of Iran, and that in the
third century he was a vassal of some importance. We may also re-
cognize the title of Waruéin-Sih in the sti Gay? Brj'n-vh (Barudan.
Sah) who in the list of “‘the kings whom Ardashir called
sah” (Ibn Khurdadbih, 17, 7) is named after the Kadis-Sah,
the ruler of Herat (or districts near Herat)".

According to the strict rules of the Armenian language, Warudan
would appear as Varéan in Armenian. Such a name does indeed
oceur in the Armenian Geography, in the list of the provinces of
the East*), There we find the following enumeration: Peroz-naztir,
Dzin-Avazah (var, dzinuazak, dzinazak), Vartan (var. Varjan).
Manian, Gtak, Asan, Bahli-bamik, The name of Peroz-nactir
survives in present-day Pir-Nagtir (24 kilometres south of Taskur-

17 Seo BSUS., ix, 845.

18 In an article contributed to the Jackson Memorial Volume I have given
@ full analysis of the passage. It wus sent to Bombay early in 1939, but
thas not so far been published.

19 Although such a name would appear suitable to a castle rather than to
a prince.

20 .As a matter of curiosity we may mention that Sprengling apparently
took Warutin for Balochees (AJSLL., li, 1937, p. 142).

21 Differently Marquart, loc. cit., 31.

22 Marquart, loc, cit., 9,

Google JNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
90 W. B. HENNING

gan, 12 km. west of Hazret-Sultan). Manian (Manisan) represents
the Mak valley according to Professor Minorsky™), Gzak lay due
south of Balkh, Asan in the south-eastern corner of Gozganin,
while Dzin-Avazak or Dzi-Navazak is to be a name imported
from mythology”). The sequence of names proves, I think, that
Vartan, too, should be looked for to the south or south-west of
Balkh*), precisely in that region over part of which the Warucir
Sah held sway.

To sum up: in the third century there was a country called
Warué or Warudéa which lay in the Kushan country just beyond
the traditional border of Persia, but had been incorporated in the
Sassanian state under Ardashir or (more likely) Shapur I. It
adjoined the country of the Kadishaeans and the valleys formed
by the affluents of the Upper Murghib. Ite king was influential
enough to be mentioned alongside the rulers of such important
provinces as Mosul, Kerman, and Mesene, But in later times its
name seems to have disappeared from history. There can be little
doubt that the country of Warué is the same as that known in later
centuries as Gharch or Gharchistén, while the possibility that
yaré is merely a later form” of the word warué cannot be
ruled out, .

23 CF. also Marquart, loc. cit., 81 sa. 24 Hudad al-‘Alam, 334

25 Thus Marquart, Brangahr,82 s4; Wehrot, 143 sqq; Catalogue, 34 299.
But cf. Minorsky, loc.cit., 185 sq. Possibly originally Diz-i (H) avaza “the
castle of HBZ,” corrupted under the influence of Diz-i Avdze?

26 Marquart thought of Warwaliz (Qunduz).

27 In disyllables with two brief vowels and not more than three consonants
‘the second vowel is liable to elision in several Iranian languages, especially if
the middle consonant is a continuant, cf. e.g. Persian lang “lame” from
lamak, pahn from pagan; Middle Persian bajn‘‘temple” from basin; Parthian
bagn “part, limb” from bayin ; Parachi pag “before” from patis, Thus warud
provided the -u- was brief, could become ward, Initial w- becomes y- (gh-)
regularly in Parachi, a dialect to which the old language of Gharchistan was
presumably closely related. This change occurs sporadically also in other
dialects, see Morgenstierne, Indo-Iranian Frontier Languages, I. 9.

Virampatnam
By R. E. M. Wheeler

Virampatnam lies on the east coast two miles south of Pondicherry,
in French India. At first sight, this peaceful village of fisherfolk is
scarcely an appropriate vehicle for the commemoration of one who
shared the dust of the Gobi wilderness with the shade of Hiuen
Tsang and, like Alexander, scaled the peak of Aornos. But in its
own degree the exploration of Virampatnam is likely to open, or
at least to chart, some part of an obscure field of knowledge, and
so may claim a faint affinity with the more adventurous pioneering
of him to whose memory the present compilation is dedicated.

The obscure field of knowledge referred to is the earlier archzeo-
logy of southern India. Few parts of Asia can be richer in remains
of prehistoric and early historic cultures than is the great expanse of
Archaean rocks which extends southwards of a line from Goa to
the lower Ganges and bears, inter alia, most of the megaliths and urn-
fields of India. Few regions so populous and accessible have at the
same time been submitted to so little scientific exploration. It
is high time that Indian archaeology took up the task with method
and determination, and the environs of the village which gives its
name to this note offer a tempting opportunity.

Half a mile behind the village, and sheltered now from the sea
by dunes and palm-trees, the site of an ancient town is being gra-
dually swept away by the Ariyankuppam at a point where the river
swings northwards to its estuary. Brick foundations are being carved
out of its eastern bank, and sherds and other débris litter the adja-
cent land-surface. As far back as the I8th century, Le Gentil men-
tions these or similar remains, and records a Tamil tradition that
the site was that of the fort of Raja Vira-Raguen and the ancient
town of Virampatnam,' Thereafter it was not until 1929 that the
place began to attract the attention of the antiquary. In that year
the Rev. Brother R. F. Faucheux, of the Petit Seminaire at Pondi-
cherry, and Mons. N. Lafitte, then Chef du Service de la Pharmacie,
collected semi-precious stones, glass and other objects from the sur-
face. The villagers followed suit, and found amongst other things
an intaglio representing the head of Augustus. This was bought

1 Voyage dans les mers des Indes @ Uoccasion du passage de Vénus sur le
disque du Solin (Patis, 1779-81), 1, 542-5.

Google
9 RE, M. WHEELER

by Mons. G. Jouveau-Dubreuil, and was subsequently removed
with other relics to the Musée de I’ Ecole Frangaise d’Extréme-Orient
at Hanoi, Indo-Chii Meanwhile, Mons. Jouveau-Dubreuil invited
Dr. A. Aiyappan? and Professor K. A. Nilakanta Sastri® from Madras
to visit the sife, and limited excavations were carried out in 1941-2
under the supervision of Brother Faucheux and Mr. P.Z. Pattabiraman.

In these excavations, the levels at which objects were found were
noted with considerable care with reference to an arbitrary datunr
line (mean sea level), and this record, as written on certain of the
actual objects, of provisional use in grouping them roughly
in bulk. The facts appear to be as follows: —

(i) Beneath two strata of brick structures of uncertain
plan and date, and at a depth of nearly two feet below
mean sea level and some twenty feet below the average
ground level, is a stratum containing imported Roman pottery,
notably amphorae and red-glazed Arretine ware, the latter
datable to circa A.D. 1-50.‘ Other Roman wares and romanis-
ing local pottery occur at the aame depth, together with purely
local products occasionally stamped with the Naga and other
symbéls. A few sherds bear graffiti in a Brahmi script which
has been ascribed by Dr. B. C. Chhabra, of the Archaeological
Survey of India, on epigraphical grounds to 200 B.C.-A.D. 200.
The graffiti are mostly fragmentary and are difficult to inter-
pret, but deserve further study. Save perhaps in two instances,
the language is Monumental Prakrit.

(ii) From the same level. and possibly others also, has
been derived an extensive series of beads made from quartz,
amethyst, topaz, agate, jasper, carnelian, and glass, together
with unworked and partially worked stones. The site was
very clearly a focus for the semi-precious stone trade and
related industries. One type of bead in particular is signi-
ficant: the so-called ‘‘collared barrel” which is distributed

2 Dr. Aiyappan subsequently contributed an article on the site to the Hindw
newspaper, Weekly Magazine Section, Madras, 23d March, 1941.

3 K. A. Nilakanta Sastri, “An inscribed potsherd from Arikamedu,” Journal
of the Madras University, XIV, No. 1. The name “Arikamedu” is that given
to the site by some of the local villagers, but otherwise has no known authority.

4 The Arretine ware includes Ritterling type 5 and Dragendorf types 16,
17 and possibly 11. ‘There are also hard buff imitations, evidently imported,
of Dragendorff type 24/25,

Google
VIRAMPATNAM 8

widely in India and is found also in the eastern Mediterranean
* At Taxila in the Punjab the type occurs in deposits

dating from the third century B.C. to the first century A, D.

and it is found on Andhra sites in Hyderabad State (see below),

ii) The discovery of an untrimmed quartz intaglio
representing Cupid and a bird suggests that Mediterranean
gem-cutters were employed on the

Briefly, even on the fragmentary evidence at present available
the site qualifies sufficiently for the status of emporium which Ptolemy
in fact accords to it if we accept its identity with his Podouke
emporion (VII, 1, 14).°

In a preliminary note written before the excavations of 1941
and before the finding of the Arretine pottery, Mons. Jouveau-
Dubreuil had already hailed the discovery or re-discovery of the site
in no uncertain fashion. ‘Nous avons 1a une véritable ville
romaine”, he exclaimed. ‘‘Ce site n'est pas d’intérét local ni
méme d’ Inde et méme de l’Asie; nous avons 14 des ruines romaines.
Et l’étude de ce site inscrirait une nouvelle page dans 1’ histoire
romaine”.’ A colder and more calculated. appreciation of the
possibilities might have substituted ‘‘footnote’” for ‘“‘page’”’; the
page had in fact already been written by the numerous classical
historians and topographers who refer to Romano-Indian trade and
markets, and by modern writers who have catalogued Roman coins
found in India.* But it is neither as a new page nor even as a
new footnote to Roman history that | now signalize the importance
of Virampatnam. It is rather as the preface to a new text-book
of southern Indian archaeology. Let me amplify this.

The Arretine ware, now recognized for the first time in India,
has given a fresh precision to the dating of the earlier part of the
site. It is clear that the stratum from which the sherds and at any

5 See H.C. Beck, “Classification and nomenclature of beads and pendants”,
Archacologia, LXXVII (London, 1927); and “The beads from Taxila,” Memoirs
of the Archaeological Survey of India, No. 65 (Delhi, 1941).

6 E.H. Warmington, The Commerce between the Roman Empire and India
(Cambridge, 1928), p. 62; G. Jouveau-Dubreuil in Bulletin de I" Ecole Frangaise
d! Extréme-Orient, XL. (1941), 449. Discussion of this identification cannot be
carried further without fresh evidence.

7 Bulletin, p. 450.

8 A fresh recension of the evidence for Roman coins in India has been pre-
pared by Mr. T. G, Aravamuthan of Madras, and will be published by the
Government Museum, Madras.

7

Google
4 RE, M. WHEELER

rate some of the beads came was accumulating not later than A.D. 50,
and may be upwards of half a century earlier. The complex of bead-
forms and stones is distinctive, and it is not peculiar to Virampatnam.
An identical assemblage occurs on two sites in the State of Hydera-
bad; namely Kondapur, 40 miles west-north-west of Hyderabad,
and Maski, 150 miles south-west of the city. At these sites prelimi-
nary excavations have been carried out by the State Department
of Archaeology, and a layer dated by local coins to the And
period (late B.C, to A.D. 250) has been identified in ociation
with a bead-industry, including the collared barrel type, similar to
that of Virampatnam. In this layer at Kondapur occurs also a
curious series of clay. bullae, copied from early Roman imperial
coins, sometimes with garbled inscription,’ and one actual coin,
said to be of Augustus,,has been found elsewhere on the site. It
may be added that in the whole of Hyderabad State only one other
Roman coin-find is recorded. Consistently with this scarcity of
intrusive coinage, the pottery, at any rate at Kondapur where | have
seen a considerable quantity, is devoid of Roman admixture.

The picture, if we-may paint one with so limited a‘palette, is thus
‘an intelligible one. In the interior of the country we have in the first
century B.C. and the first and second centuries A.D. a powerful
Indian kingdom, that of the Andhras, stretching across the northern
Deccan and jealously controlling a number of gemstone sources, On
the coast are the emporia for foreign trade, some of them witha
nucleus of Mediterranean settlers."* Souvenirs of the foreigner find
their way occasionally into the interior, but the only real cultural link
between the kingdom and the foreign element in the coastal markets
is the pervading craft of the gem-stone cutter. Archaeologically, the
type-fossil of the period is the bead, and it is on a careful study of
bead-forms that South Indian archaeology of this phase is most likely
to make its first advances.

South of the Andhras the position in the first two centuries A.D.
appears to have been more fluid. On the east the Colas, on the
west the Ceras, and at the southern end the Pandyas were jockeying

9 I am informed by Mr. Ajit Mookerjee that similar sub-Roman bullae of
clay and bronze have been found on an ancient urban site between Dhauli hill
and Bhubaneswar in Orissa. Mr. Mookerjec identifies this site with the Mauryant
city of Tosala or Tosali

to In addition to Virampatnam, reference may- be made to the Temple of
Augustus which the Peutinger Table locates at Muziris, commonly identified
with Cranganore on the coast of Cochin,

Google

VIRAMPATNAM 95

for position, with the Colas (in whose territory Virampatnam may
be included) vaguely in the lead. The absence of strong centralised
control in this region appears to have opened.the way to a more in-
tensive penetration of Roman prospectors or at any rate of Roman
currency, for Roman coins are here found freely in the interior (e-g-
in the Coimbatore district) as well as along the coast.

Such briefly would azpear to be the general situation from the
point of view of the student of the Roman exploitation of India
gemmifer. But, as | have already implied, the importance to us of
this commerce in stones lies less in the impact of Roman enterprise
than. in the impact of Roman chronology. The px ilities of this
new factor cannot yet be foretold. At Virampatnam itself an exten-
sive Indian culture found in contact with the imported goods awaits
checking and analysis, and will thereafter be the first early South
Indian culture for which a close dating is feasible. At the same time,
further afield. there are other possibilities. Both at Maski and at
Kondapur a few sherds of a very distinctive and widespread ware
have been found, as I am told, in the Andhra level. This ware is of
a rich russet colour with simple parallel lines or waves in a thin yellow
slip under a glossy surface. I am credibly informed that this ware
has also been unearthed as a primary deposit in a sealed large-cist
grave (or dolmen buried below the surface) in Cochin, and | have
picked it up on ancient town or village mounds at Vellalur and at
Nathamedu near Bogampatti, in the Coimbatore district." Whether
it actually occurs at Virampatnam remains to be seen; but the evi-
dence appear to indicate that it was widely current round about the
beginning of the present era, and that, incidentally, a dominant type
of megalithic tomb was in use at the same time. If this be so—and
much further evidence is required—we shall for the first time have a
firm base for the study of Indian megaliths.

T would again, however, emphasise that these preliminary notes
merely indicate lines of research and do not profess to map assured
discovery. For that, much hard -work of a pioneer kit
quired, and will shortly be initiated.

11 A hoatd of “silver Roman coins” is recorded to have been found at
Vellalur. Nathamedu is a new discovery, 19443 2 low hill upwards of 1000 yards in
diameter is thickly littered with potsherds and iron slag.

Google
Some References to Kataha Dvipa
in Ancient Indian Literature

By Dr. V. S. Agrawala

Kataha Dvipa is mentioned several times in Sanskrit and Prakrit
literature as a place situated beyond the sea and reached by ships
leaving the sea-port of Tamralipti, In Prakrit its name occ
Kadahadipa. In the inscriptions of Rajaraja Cola and Rajendra
Cola giving an account of their naval conquests, the name of
Kadaram occurs as one of the several places of the East Indian
Archipelago. Both Kadaram and Kataha have been identified with
Kedah in the North West of the Malaya peninsula.

In the Kathdsaritedgara several stories refer to sea-voyages under-
taken to Suvarnadvipa and Katahadvipa for purposes of trade.
The parable of the Agurudahi trader’ says that a foolish merchant
took a ship-load of black aguru wood as merchandise to be sold
in the Kal vipa. The people of the land did not know the stuff,
and thus not being able to sell it the merchant converted it into
charcoal. Bragging of his cleverness in thus earning money, the
fellow only exposed his folly.

In another Prakrit work, the Samardiccakaha by Haribhadra Siri,
written about the middle of the 8th century, there are two stories
relating to Katahadvipa. In one of them’ the sea journey is
described in det: Arich merchant named Dhana, living inland,
first went to Tamralipti, but did not make sufficient money from the
disposal of his ware. This strengthened his resolution to earn in-
creased profit by going in for maritime commerce. It is stated that
sea-faring merchants in those days were earning much more profit
than inland traders. The merchant then equipped a ship with such
goods as were being exported from India to the Eastern Islands and
set sail with a faithful servant and his wife who proved herself
faithless. As a result of her giving poisoned food, the merchant got
ill, but continued the journey, till at last the boat reached the
shore of Maha-Kataha-Dvipa. Fearing mishap to his own life, he
put his servant Nandaka in charge of the goods; the servant went
ashore with presents to the king of the place who allotted hima
place of residence. Arranging for medical relief to his master, but
seeing no improvement of his condition, Nandaka hurriedly disposed
of the goods and purchasing other importable goods started on the
return journey to the mother country. On the way the ailing

1 Kathasaritsagara, 60. 2-6. 2 Samardiccakahd. ed. Jacobi, pp. 195-206,

Google
SOME REFERENCES TO KATAHA DVIPA 97

husband was pushed into the sea by the treacherous wife. After
instituting a fruitless search for the merchant, Nandaka perforce
countinued his homeward journey. Fortunately the merchant caught
hold of a floating plank from a previous ship-wreck and after
struggling in water for several days was stranded ashore.

Another story in the same book® also refers to a sea voyage on
business errand from Tamralipti to Katahadvipa. Arunadeva, the
merchant prince of Tamralipti started on a ship loaded with mer-
chandise from that sea-port and sailed for Katahadvipa. Unfortu-
nately his ship was caught in a storm and lost But the merchant
got support on a loose plank and was able to reach the shore.

In the Brhat-kathamaiijari* of the poet Kgemendra the story of
the virtuous lady Devasmita refers to Katakeadvipa, which is no
doubt the same as the Katahadvipa of other works.- Dhanagupta
is a merchant of Tamralipta. He once went with son on a
sea voyage to the Barbara country and there besought the hand
of a beautiful maiden for his son. Although her father did
not agree, she herself became enamoured of the merchant’s son
and came with them. Their marriage was celebrated on their
return to Tamralipta. After his father’s death Guhasena embark-
ed from the port of Tamralipté on a sea-voyage for the in-
crease of wealth, Before starting he obtained from Siva a pair
of lotus flowers one of which he gave to his wife, while he kept the
other with himself. The flower would keep its freshness so long
as the couple remained stead-fast in their virtue. Leaving his
faithful wife behind, he after many days reached the Katakga-dvipa.
There in an assembly of friends he spoke of his wife and the lotus
flower. Four of them thought of testing her virtue and came to
Tami Each made his advance to Devasmita, but was worsted
in wit and disgraced. The virtuous lady then fearing harm to
her husband from them left for Katakga-dvipa in the guise of
a merchant. Arriving at the place, she appraised the king of the
whole affair. The king thereupon captured the miscreants and
united her to her husband. The couple returned to Tamralipta
bringing with them great treasure. °

These stoties incorporated in the Katha literature of the mediaeval
period (8th to IIth centuries A.D.) show the popularity of the
name Kataha-dvipa which appears to have frequently come to the
minds of the story-writers as part of the motif of naval voyages
undertaken by adventurous merchants during the flourishing period
of India’s international commerce.

3 Ibid p. 585 4 11 188, p, 60

Google
Editorial Notes

In October 1944 the Managing Committee of the Greater India
Society unanimously elected Dr. Syamaprasad Mookerjee, M.
D.Litt, Bar-at-Law, M.L.A. 9 its President in place of, the late-
lamented Sir P. C. Ray. The Managing Committee of the Society
is grateful to Dr, Mookerjee for kindly accepting the appointment
with effect from the same month. The Committee takes this oppor-
tunity to welcome Dr. R. E. Mortimer Wheeler, D. Litt., Director-
General of Archaeology who has been elected as one of the Vice-
Presidents of the Society.

The first Deccan History Conference is due to be held at
Hyderabad, (Dn.) on the successive days, 10th’to 12th April 1945.
The Conference will have as its General President Mr. W. V.
Grigeon, Revenue Member, H.E.H. the Nizam’s Government. There
will also be three sections, the Ancient, the Mediaeval and the
Modern, of which Dewan Bahadur S. Krishnaswamy Aiyangar
Professor Haroun Khan Sherwani and Rao Bahadur C. S, Sriniv:
chari will act as respective Presidents. The Greater India Society
has sent ite best wishes to the authorities of the Conference for the
success which they so richly deserve.

The Greater India Society welcomes the advent of the Archaeo-
logical Society of South India under the distinguished patronage
of the Vice-Chancellor, Madras University. The Society has made
a promising beginning by publishing as its first Memoir the monograph
“Epigraphical Echoes of Kalid: written by the well-known
Curator of the Archaeological Section of the Madras Government
Museum, Mr. C. Sivaramamurti. We shall be glad to notice this
book in the next number of this Journal.

Owing to limitations of space imposed by the existing rules, the
Managing Committee of the Greater India Society regrets that the
sections on book-reviews and select contents of Oriental Journ
have to be unavoidably held over till the next number of this Journ
The Committee equally regrets the delay in the appearance of this
number of ‘the Journal due to the present abnormal situation.

Google
Obituary Notice.
The late Sir Prafulla Chandra Ray, Kt., C.1.E., D.Sc.

In the last number of this Journal we had the melancholy duty of
mourning the death of the late President of the Greater India Society,
Sir Prafulla Chandra Ray, who has been rightly acclaimed as one of
the greatest Indians of his generation, eminent as.a teacher and scho-
lar, as an irer of industrial advance in this country, as a philan-
thropist, and as a man of sterling character. In the present number we
give a short sketch of his remarkable career which, it.is not too much
to say, will serve as a beacon of inspiration to untold generations of
his countrymen. ©

Born on August 2, 1861 in a family of moderate means in an
obscure village in the Khulna district of Bengal,Prafulla Chandra Ray
was educated successively at the Hare and Albert schools and the
Metropolitan Institution, Calcutta. Winning the Gilchrist scholarship
of his year, he joined the University of Edinburgh in 1882. There he
stayed till 1888 when he obtained the D.Sc. degree of that Univer-
sity on a thesis in Inorganic Chemistry. Returning to India, he was
appointed Assistant Professor of Chemistry at the Presidency College,
Calcutta, in ]889, and he continued his connection with that college
till his retirement in 1916. During these years of strenuous service he
not only established his reputation as a very successful teacher of his
subject, but also’ published a large number of original papers, and
above all, helped to build an Indian school of chemists which has
since won international recognition. Indeed, it is not too much to
say, that along with his colleague in the branch of Physics, the late
Sir J. C. Bose, he helped to win a place for his countrymen in the
estimation of the world of science in modern times. To the same
active period of his life belongs the publication of his great work en-
titled History of Hindu Chemistry in two volumes (1902, 1908), which
was immediately hailed by discerning critics as a contribution of first-
rate importance to the history of chemical science. During the same
years he took an active part in founding the Bengal Chemical and
Pharmaceutical Works Ltd., which under his fostering care rapidly
developed into one of the largest manufacturers of indigenous drugs
on this side of India. It is melancholy to reflect that with all his
qualifications, he failed to be admitted into the permanent cadre of
the Indian Educational Service, though his eminence was recognised
by the award of the high distinction of Companion of the Order of
the Indian Empire in 1911.

Google
100 OBITUARY NOTICE

Retiring from Government service, he was immediately appointed
at the instance of that great educationist, the late Sir Asutosh Moo-
kerjee, the first Palit Professor of Chemistry at the University College
of Science and Technology, Calcutta. This post he held with high
credit till 1936 when he retired for reasons of health. In the congenial
atmosphere of the Univer he was able to increase his research ac-
tivities still further. What is more, he benefited the University
immensely by his princely donations, derived from savings from his
salary, in the cause of the science which he loved so well. Out of
these endowments, the University, has been able to found two Sir
P. C. Ray Research Fellowships in Chemistry, the Nagarjuna Re-
search Prize in Chemistry, and the Sir Asutosh Mookerjee Research
Prize in Zoology and Botany. His invaluable services to the Uni-
versity were fittingly recognised by appointment as Emeritus
Professor after his retirement, a position which he held till his death.

In this last period of his career Sir Prafulla Chandra Ray—he
was knighted just after the last Great War—earned the heartfelt
love and gratitude of his countrymen by actively encouraging nume-
rous industrial undertakings started by educated Bengali youngmen,
and still more, by his untiring efforts to relieve the misery of the peo-
ple on the occasions of aweful visitations of nature, like the Khulna
famine of 1921 and the North Bengal Flood of 1922.

Schooling himself from the first to a life of almost ascetic simpl-
icity—he remained a bachelor all his life-—Prafulla Chandra
gave away his surplus income in minor charities too numerous to
mention. The Greater India Society which was fortunate enough to
have him as its President for a number of years, profited not only by
his sage advice, but also by his generous patronage.

A man of fine literary taste, the late Sir P. C. Ray delighted in
the study of Shakespeare, Emerson and Carlyle, as also of Rabindranash,
Tagore. His fascinating autobiography,written in his characteristic terse”
idiomatic style, which was called Life and Experiences of a Bengali
Chemist, was published in two volumes (1932, 1935).

In his last years Sir P. C. Ray. suffered from an almost complete
breakdown of his health, but he retained his interest in all progressive
movements of his countrymen, passing away peacefully in his room
at the University College of Science—his home for the last thirty years
of his life—on June 16, 1944,

May his soul rest in peace!

Google

Original from

Digitized by Google UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
Sriginal from

Y Google UNIVERSITY OF M

Digit

CHIGAN
Google

‘Nitin

3 9015 03462 4091
«~7 (GOO ee

