The portion of Central Asia that stretches from the North-
Western boundaries of China to the northern territories of ancient
India (including modern Afghanistan) was considered as the life-line
of international trade and cultural exchange, It was also known as
the silk-roure through which silk, spice and other commodities were
offered for commercial exchange with countries in the West. We
are not sure of the actual date when this international route first came
to be used. The earliest historical rocord’ written in Chinese
indicates that as early as the second century B.C, textile and bamboo
products manufactured in China were sold in the market of Bactriana
in the Oxus valley. This was personally seen by Chang Ch’ien,
the envoy sent by Emperor Wu-ti of the Han Dynasty in 129 B.C.
to negotiate with the Yiieh Chi rulers in Bactriana in order to form a
military alliance. Further he was reported to have said that these
commodities were brought to Bactriana via India. This presupposes
the existence of this international route between China and Central
Asian countries including India, Therefore it appears to be very
natural that most of the Indian and Central Asian Buddhist teachers
who proceeded to China followed the trail of this caravan route
through Central Asia or modern Chinese Turkestan. This particular
route served a useful purpose for over 1,000 years from the beginning


At present, the Siamese Wats display a noticeable Chinese influence
with multi-coloured sloping roofs and a far less artistic merits due to
over-embellishments by crushed porcelain wares and gold leaves. The
present writer cannot agree with Le May*® chat they are totally devoid
of artistic qualities as the modern temples possess an exuberance of
art and beatitude, which should not be judged from any conventional
point of view. Such modern sanctuaries like Wat Arun, Wat
Phra Keo, Wat Pho, Wat Benchamapobit, Wat Rajapradit, Wat
Sutat and others are fine pieces of architecture influenced by both
Indian and and Chinese styles and decorations, The modern Wats
of Siam generally contain a central “Bot”? (or Chapel), a ‘Vihan’
(Vibita ie, .a monastery) and a stiipa ot “Phra Cedi”. The Prangs
of these temples are often surmounted by trigulas, the Saivite origin
of which may be easily detected.

Lack of any distinctive character of the teachings in this text and the
ascription of the text to many authors in different traditions
suggest that it is a compilation like other Indian NiciSastras.
The Jainas, Brahmins, later on, Buddhists, have taken the privilege
of utilising some oft-quoted moral sayings of some unknown
writers for preaching the futility of the world of appearance. A
comparative study will show that, like the Jainas and Brahmins of
India, the Buddhist Tibetan lo-tsi-bas have made minor changes or
modifications in some verses in accordance with the respective doctri«
nal thoughts.

The Tibetan colophon of the text mentions the Indian Pandita
Kamalagupta® and lo-tsi-ba Rin-chen bzai-po as the joint translators
of che Tibetan translation. Kamalagupta is said to have been invited
by Rin chen bzai po to Tibet for assistance in the translation
of several Indian texts into Tibetan during the eleventh century A, D,
Rin chen bzafi po,*® the famous Tibetan scholar, was born in
955 A.D. (sa pho ttassearth male horse) in Shu chan district of
Tibet, and passed away in che year (Sit mo lugs=wood female sheep)
1055 A.D. He is generally known by the name of lo-chen (great
translator) for translating a large number of Indian works on various
subjects into Tibetan.
