Mh Oh iit
Mts,

THE

JOURNAL

OF THE

GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

EDITED BY

U, N. GHOSHAL. PH.p.

Vol. 1, 1934

Printed at the Calcutta Oriental Press and Published by
the Hony. Secretary, Greater India Society.

CALCUTTA.

Google
Ds

4ol

“477
vel

Sriginal from

» Google UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

CONTENTS

Volume 1, 1934
Artioles

P,
An Old-Javanese Inscription from Ngabean of “
the Saka Year 801 os we oe)
By H. B. Sarkar, M. A.
An Old-Javanese Loan-record of the Saka Year 833 102
By H. B, Sarkar, M. A.
Early Art of Srivija;
By Devaprasad Ghosh, M. A., P. RS.
Indian Colonisation in Sumatra before the
Seventh Century a a OD
By Dr. J. Prayluski, D. Litt.
Indian Influence on Western thought before and
during the Third Century A.D... |
By Prof. Dr. Przyluski, D. Litt.
_On the Origin of the Sailendras of Indonesia 6
By Dr. G. Cordée, Ph.D.
_Sailendra Empire (up to the end of the Tenth

31

Century A. D.) - W
By Dr. R. C. Majumdar, M. A., Ph. D.
~ Struggle between the Sailendras and the Cholas .... 71
By Dr. R. C. Majumdar M. A., Ph. D.
Sanyatd and its different Interpretations ae 105

By Dr. E. Obermiller, Ph. D.
Use of the Visarga symbol in some of the languages

of Greater India os ow 28
By Dr. C. O. Blagden, M. “As (Hon.) D. Lite.
Miscellany
Depung—the Monastic University of Tibet we 47

By Pandit Vidhushekhara Bhattacharya
Two Notes on the Cultural Contact between
Java and Bengal we we ry]
By H. B. Sarkar, M. A.

Notes

Ancient Indian Culture in Bali wee we NB
By Dr. H. Meinhard, Ph. D.

Select Contents of Qriental Journals... 88, 121

Google
ii
Page
Plates Facing Page

Bronze head of Buddha image 36
Bronze image of Maitreya 36
Depung—the Monastic University of Tibet 49
Ge she Thub ten rab (Kalyanamitra Manifdsanaprai 8

Stone Buddha image
Stone statue of Avalokitesoara on 33

Alphabetioal List of Contributors

Bhattacharya, Pandit Vidhushekhara

Depung—the Monastic University of Tibet we 47
Blagden, Dr. C. O., M. A., (Hon.) D. Litt

The use of Visarga symbol in some of the

languages of Greater India ae ow 28
+ Coedés, Dr. G., Ph. D.
On the Origin of the Sailendras of Indonesia... 61
Ghosh, Devaprasad, M. A., P. R. S.
Early Art of Srivijaya . a |

v Majumdar, Dr. R. C., M. A., Ph. D.
‘The Sailendra Empire (up to the end of the
Tenth Century A.D.) -.-
Ibid., The Struggle between the Sailendras ‘and Chol:
Meinhard, Dr. H., Ph. D.
Ancient Indian Culture in Bali ae oe 1B
Obermiller, Dr. E., Ph. D.
The term Sdnyata its different Interpretations 105
Przyluski, Dr. J., D. Litt.
Indian Influence on Western thought before
and during the Third Century A. D. on 1
Ibid, Indian Colonisation in Sumatra before
the Seventh Century a we 92

Sarkar H. B., M. A.
An Old-Javanese Inscription from Ngabean of

i
71

the Saka Year 801 on oa 39
Ibid., Two Notes on the Cultural Contact between
Java and Bengal 51
Ibid., An Old-Javanese Loan-record of the Saka
Year 833 oe on oe ve 102

Google
wo

Vol. |, No. 1

wee

reenzQqou

Google

Original from

UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

AIMS AND OBJECTS

1. To organize the study of Indian culture in Greater India [i.e
Serindia, India Minor, Indo-China and Insulin as well as
in China, Korea, Japan and other countries of Asi

2. To arrange for the publication of the resulis of researches into the
history of India’s spiritual and cultural relations with the outside

world and gradually to arrange for the issuing of a regular organ
of the Society.

3. To create an interest in the history of Greater India and connected
problems among the students in the schools, colleges and univer-
sities of India by instituting systematic study of those subjects and
to take proper steps to stimulate the same.

4. To popularise the knowledge of Greater India by organising mass
meetings, lantern lectures, exhibitions and conferences.

ORDER FORM

To
The Bonorary Secretary,
GREATER INDIA SOCIETY,
21, Badurbagan Row,
Amherst Street P. O. Calcutta
Dear Sin,

Please enrol mea _ the Greater India

(Membership fee for 1934! by sending. your

Please realise from me
scription for 19344

Journal per V. P. P.
. Yours truly,

Name

Address

Google
sal.

aeviad

JOURNAL OF THE GREATER INDIA SOCIETY
JANUARY, 1934

CONTENTS

Articles: Page

Indian influence on Western thought before and
during the third century A. D. we we ST

By Prof. Dr. Jean Przyluski, D. Litt.

The Sailendra Empire (up to the end of the
tenth centuryA.D.) —... ow

By Prof. Dr. R. C. Majumdar, M. A. Ph. ‘.

The use of the Visarga symbol in some of the
languages of Greater India on oe 28
By Dr. C. O. Blagden, M. A., (Hon.) D. ‘Lit

Early Art of Srivijaya fn - on we Bl
By Devaprasad Ghosh, M. A.

An Old-Javanese Inscription from Ngabean, of the
By Himansu Bhusan Sarkar, M. A

Miscellany:
Depung—The Monastic University of Tibet... we 47
By Pandit Vidhushekhara Sastri

Two Notes on the Cultural Contact between Java and

Bengal . oe we ST
By Himansu.| Bhusan Sark Mi A.
Select Contents of Oriental Journals oy 98

Google
Foreword

Fo hososs hey torrvey ix tatl
sas aa te ball hal age
hem she reakvaca her brat, 04d
tp tennterred hex Physical deere
then ake tareube tor hang in a Aadeind

Anes madtig ken egaiyd 12 Ba

all in am namenning rypither f 4 tat
hea Mak & lhl ta

poe A hae.
bilpinn 7 ie Aehrsarareh Sagres

Google
THE

JOURNAL

OF THE
GREATER INDIA SOCIETY
Vout JANUARY, 1934 No. 1

Indian Influence on Western Thought before
and during the Third Century A.D.¢

By Dr. Jean Przyluski

When did Indian philosophy first make its influence felt
upon Western thought? Was there a direct influence at
a time when ancient philosophers were incapable of under-
standing the Upanishads and other Indian treatises? To
this question one is at first tempted to give a negative
answer. It should, however, be remembered that a philoso-
phic doctrine is not only transmitted by formal precepts;
it may also be communicated by example. Words may be
completed, may even be superseded by actions.

‘We know that from the time of the expedition of
Alexander, the Greeks were deeply impressed by the
impassibility of Indian ascetics. From this epoch mention
is made in moral treatises of the gymnosophist Calancs who
refused to accompany Alexander into Egypt and voluntarily
ascended the funeral pile. It has been maintained, probab-
ly with reason, that Pyrrho, head of the Sceptics in the
3rd century B.C. chose as his ideal the imitation of this
indifference imperturbable even in presence of death. ‘‘The

* Translated by May Waddington.

Google
2 JEAN PRZYLUSKI

gymnosophist taught him,"’ writes, Victor Brochard, “tin a
better way than by means of neds ments and disputations,
the vanity of human things. We have here no mere
surmise. Diogenes tells us that if he sought solitude and
if he laboured to become a good man, it is because he had
never forgotten the words of the Indian who reproached
Anaxarchos with being incapable of teaching others to be
virtuous and frequenting too assiduously the palace of the
kings.” (Les sceptiques grecs, pp. 74-75). A few exhorta-
tions, the spectacle of death endured with calmness, are
enough for the orientation of unsatisfied spirits.

Ancient Greek literary works on India have almost
entirely disappeared and the fragments which have been
preserved give unfortunately a very incomplete idea of this
literature.

From the commencement of the Augustan Age, continu-
ous relations were established between India and the Roman
world; commerce was on the increase and the Indian kings
sent embassies to Rome, the most famous of which were
those sent to Augustus and to the Emperor Heliogabalus.
The coming of this first embassy is a date in the history of
ideas.

Dion Cassius relates that along with an embassy of the
Indian king Pandion (or Porus), bearing presents for Augus-
tus, there came to Greece an ascetic Zarmaros or Zarmano-
chegas* of Bargoza (Barygaza). Having been initiated at
Eleusis, he straightway ascended the funeral pile alive.

“Accordingly one of the Indians, Zarmaros, either
because he was of the breed of Sophiste, or because of a
desire to make a display of himself before both Augustus
and the Athenians, came there and having determined to
die, he was initiated into the mysteries of the gods, and
gave himself alive to the fames...."”

This text allows us to assign the death of the Indian
ascetic to the year 20. The passage may be completed by
the following from Nicolas of Damascus.

1 OF the two variants, Zarmaroa or Zarmanoe, the second is
probably to be preferred, as it corresponds to the Indian word Sramana.

Google
INDIAN INFLUENCE ON WESTERN THOUGHT 3

At the sanctuary of Daphne near Antioch on the Orontes,
Nicolas of Damascus had met, he says, the Indian embassy
that had been sent to Augustus. It was then before the
initiation, on the way to Samos and Eleusis. Nicolas of
Damascus adds as a comment on the impressive suicide :
“There are men who act in this manner when their affairs
cause anxiety, for they seek to escape from the present,
but others 20 act when in full prosperity as this person has
given evidence. For, while all had, by common consent,
gone well with him, up to that time, he himself decided to
end his life, fearing that if his life were prolonged, some
unforeseen disaster might befall him, and what is more, it
was with a smile on his lips, naked and anointed, that he
ascended the funeral pile. And it is inscribed on his tomb:
“Here lies Zarmaros Chegan, an Indian of Bargoza, who
according to the national customs of the Indies, made him-
self immortal.”

M. P. Graindor is of opinion that the suicide of the
ascetic is explained by ‘“‘the love of noisy publicity which
he shared with the Sophists.” (Athénes sous Auguste,
pp. 20-22, 92-93). More recently M. Picard has supposed
that the Sramana had revived a tradition that may be traced
back to Croesus and Evadne. (R. H. R. mars-juin, 1933,
p. 144). It is difficult to believe that the Indian ascetic
could have been inspired by an ancient Greek tradition.
He acted rather, as his epitaph says, ‘‘according to the
national customs of the Indies,"’ not from “‘love of noisy
publicity,” but yather in order to make an impression on
Augustus and the Athenian people. Nothing indicates
that the ascetic, at the cost of his life, wished to acquire a
useless reputation. It is more probable that he acted from
a motive of edification, to show to all the people, ona
solemn occasion, that philosophy leads to perfect detach-
ment and that this detachment was taught by sages of his
country.

The lesson was not lost. During the first centuries of
our era, the prestige of Oriental wisdom was enhanced in
the eyes of the Greeks. Diogenes Laerces writes in the

Google
Weatenn

4 JEAN PRZYLUSKEL

preface of his Lives of the Philosophe:
philosophy originated among the Barbarians

“In the age of romanticism, when Plotinus lived, bar-
barism was in fashion, just as the man of nature in the [8th
century and the Middle Ages in the 19th century. There
is no tract on popular morals which does not give, as an
example, the Indian gymnosophist. Notices about the
Brahmanas are frequent from the time of Strabo. The
legendary adventures of Apollonius of Tyana were in part
assigned to India."

“Plotinus himself, who has exercised a very profound
and enduring influence on fndiay thought, seems to have
borrowed from India a portion of his ideas.“

It was in 1922 that Emile Bréhier raised the question as
to the origin of the ideas of Plotinus.* “It is not enough,”
he wrote, “‘to speak in general terms of the current of
mysticism which already for two centuries had been pene-
trating into the Graeco-Roman world. The mysticiem of
Plotinus has really a character of its own which distinguishes
it radically from that of all the Oriental religions that were
in vogue at that time......ln general the system of Plotinus
is distinguished from all other philosophic systems and from
all the religions of its age by the almost complete absence
of the idea of a mediator or of a saviour destined to bring
man into relationship with God....lt is the soul herself, that
in her progress becomes the Intelligence and having reached
the end of her journey, is no longer separated from the
One... So we find at the very centre of the thought of
Plotinus an alien element, one which defies classification.
The theory of the intelligence as a universal being resembles

“It is eaid that

1 E, Bréhier (Introduction & la traduction des Ennéades de Plotin,
pp. v-vi,

2 In 1857 Chr. Lassen (Indische Alterthamekunde, Il, pp. 415-439)
has already conjectured the influence of Indian thought upon Plotinus.
Deusen in his History of Philosophy, tome Il, part I, p. 485, notes “the
remarkable agreement between Neo-Platonic and Indian ideas."" Neverthe-
less he does not admit an historic filiation, but only what he calle “en
{internal affinity.”

Google
INDIAN INFLUENCE ON WESTERN THOUGHT s

neither Greek rationalism nor the popular piety of
contemporary religious circles. In my quest for the source
of the philosophy of Plotinus, | am compelled to look
beyond the Orient adjacent to Greece, to the religious
speculations of India, which at the epoch of Plotinus were
established and had been for centuries in the Upanishads
and had retained all their vitality”. (Revue des Cours et
Conférences, 15 mai, 1922, p. 294 f., reprinted in ‘La Philo-
sophie de Plotin, 1928, p. 113 seq.).

These ideas which formerly seemed daring are invested
to-day with anew authority in consequence of the discovery
in Egypt of Manichean documents which throw light on the
development of religious thought in the first century of the
Christian era. Fellah of Medinét Madi in the Fayoum
found, in the ruins of a house, a worm-eaten coffer. This
chest which must have belonged to some member of the
Manichean clergy, contained a large number of pages,
glued together and partially destroyed by dampness.
M. Carl Schmidt was able to discern the value of these
papyrus of which he acquired the greater part for the
Museum of Berlin. The rest are the property of an English
bibliophile, Mr. Chester Beatty.

An article by M. Carl Schmidt and M. H. J. Polotsky
which appeared in the Sitzungsberichte of the Academy of
Berlin, allows us to estimate the importance of this dis-
covery. Seven works have been restored, comprising no
less than 2000 pages. Two of these are the writings of
Mani himself ; the others have been compiled by disciples
of the first or second generation. The two books of which
Mani is the author are a “‘capitulary” and a collection of
letters. The former gives very definite information about
the life of the reformer. Mani lived in the reign of
Ardashir | (224-241), the first Sassanid king. Even in his
adolescence he received his divine mission: ‘The living
Paraclete descended on me and spoke to me." This re-
velation enabled him to understand the mysteries of the
strife between light and darkness, of the creation, of the
destiny of man,

Google
6 JEAN PRZYLUSE!

The zeal of the innovator seems to have disturbed the
monarch. Mani deemed it prudent to leave. “‘In the last
year of King Ardashir,"” he writes, “‘I crossed in a ship over
to the country of the Indians and I preached to them the
Hope of Life."” As soon as Ardashir had died and his son
Sapor I had ascended the throne (241 A.D.), Mani retumed
by sea from India to Persia, from whence he came to
Babylonia, Mesena and Khouzistan. He then presented
himself to the new monarch who was impressed by his
words and kept him near his person.

M. Fr. Cumont, who relates these facts in the Revue de
? Historie des Religions, commerts on them in these terms:
“These well attested facts throw new light on the relation
of Mani with Mazdeiam, the State religion, which he pre-
tended to reform, and also on his connection with Buddhist
India. No longer may we doubt that the founder of a
strictly ascetic cult had a direct knowledge of the Hindu
doctrine of renunciation." (La bibliotheque d’ un manichéen,
R.H. R., mare-juin, 1933, p. 185).

‘When applied to the study of the life of Plotinus, these
new facts may contribute to an explication of the genesis
of his doctrine. He was born in Lycopolis in Egypt. His
vocation for philosophy was manifested at 28 years of age,
the first time that he attended at Alexandria the course of
the Platonist Ammonius. ‘‘From that day,” says Porphyry,
“the frequented Ammonius. He arrived at such a deep un-
derstanding of philosophy that he sought to gain a direct
knowledge of this philosophy practised among the Persians
and held in honour among the Indians. The Emperor
Gordian was then about to go to Persia. Plotinus presented
himself at his camp and he accompanied the army. He
was then in his thirty-ninth year: for he had followed the
courses of Ammonius for eleven whole years.”" (Vie de Plotin,
trans. E. Bréhier, Ennéades |, p. 3).

It was then at thirty-nine years of age, that is to say in
242, that Plotinus left suddenly the school of Ammonius and
his friends and joined the Emperor Gordian who was pre-
paring to cross to Persia. His intention was to gain a direct

Google
INDIAN INFLUENCE ON WESTERN THOUGHT 1

knowledge of the philosophy of the Persians and Indians.
‘What was the origin of this determination? Eleven years
before, he had been attracted to the study of philosophy by
the words of Ammonius. What new experience has sent
him fer from his country, his fellow disciples and his
master? At this point a comparison of dates seems impe-
rative. In 241 Mani returned by sea from India into Persia,
presented himself to Sapor I and became an attendant of
the king. No longer an obscure agitator, for his fame had
been increased by his journey and by the favour of the new
monarch, he became an official reformer. From that time
he proclaims his will to teach a Catholic religion. In the
epistles, he appears as ‘‘the director of a vast enterprise of
conversion which should extend to Iran as well as to the
Roman world." (Fr. Cumont, ibid., p. 186.) At that epoch
the merchants of Alexandria were the natural intermediaries
between Rome and the Orient. The Manichean propa-
ganda had to reach Egypt before arriving at Rome.
Plotinus who had extensive relations among the commer-
cial classes as well as among the philosophers, was probably
cone of the first to become acquainted with the wanderings
and ideas of Mani. The best way to become an initiate
in the philosophy of both the Persians and the Indians was
by meeting Mani. Rumours of war were current. The
Roman army was preparing to attack Sapor!. It was con-
venient for Plotinus to enter Persia with these troops who
had been 20 often victorious.

In this way the agreement of dates allows us to think that
the spiritual crisis of Plotinus in 242 was caused by the
Manichean propaganda. He had learned of the birth of a
new religion inspired, to some extent, by Indian asceticism.
Plotinus, whose deepest aspirations are satisfied by this
line, desires to be informed and he withdraws from
his friends. In spite of the defeat of the Roman army, he
did not return to Egypt, but in 243 established himself at
Rome.

Later the philosopher dreams of founding in Campania a
city of sages where he might retire with his disciples. As has

Google
8 JEAN PRZYLUSEL

been well said by Emile Bréhier, we must see in this project
more than the survival of the ideas of Plato. ‘The Pla-
tonic city has become a convent; it is probably the best
and most diverting illustration of the difference between
Platonism and Neo-Platonism."’ (Ennéades I, p. xi.) This
new ideal is made clear if a Buddhist factor is introduced into
the development of the Platonic doctrine.

In the same order of ideas, Fr. Cumont makes this pene-
trating observation: ‘‘We know now that the Manichean
doctrine, steeped in Hindu asceticism, was propagated
in the Thebaid exactly at the time of the birth there of
Christian monasticism. The idea is irresistible that its exal-
tation of renunciation acted in some way on the develop-
ment of this spiritual movement, which drew so many
anchorites into the solitary places of that country.” (R.H.R.,
ibid., p. 189, n. 1.)

It may be objected that the doctrine of Mani had taken
adefinite form before his journey to Indi ince he declares
that even in his youth the Paraclete had revealed to him
the mysteries of the strife between light and darkness, etc.
But these mysteries are the strictly Iranian part, the dualistic
basis of Manichzeanism. Later Mani made an effort to create
a universal religion in combining the Iranian dogma with
elements borrowed from other religions. He himself tells
us of his project in these terms: ‘‘The Scriptures and the
Wisdom and the Apocalypses and the Parables and the
Pealms of all the earlier Churches have been collected and
have been joined to my Church and added to the Wisdom
which I have revealed. As a stream of water mingles with
another stream and is thereby increased, so the other booke
have been added to my writings and have become a great
wisdom such as has not been announced to any one of
the ancient generations.

“The Hope which I bring will go towards the West and
towards the East and one will hear the voice of the announce-
ment in all languages and it will be preached in every
city. My Church is superior to all earlier churches,
because these churches were received in certain places

Google
INDIAN INFLUENCE ON WESTERN THOUGHT 9

and in certain cities, but my message will reach every
country.””

From this composite mass which is Manicheeanism, the
luminous spirit of Plotinus was able to separate, in order
to reject them, the dualistic tenets and to retain only the
mysticism, peculiarly Indian. This may be condensed in
a small number of formulas; but these formulas are with-
out significance except for him who is prepared to grasp
them. Plotinus, in 242, although thirty-nine years of age,
was still waiting for a liberating power which should make
him the creator of a new philosophy.

We may now perceive the inter-relation of facts. Indian
ascetics conceived an ideal of renunciation of the world and
of complete indifference: man is an autonomous power;
he is capable of self-deliverance by raising himself to the
divine plane without the aid of the gods or of a mediator.
The Greeks had intimations of these ideas for several cen-
turies. Megasthenes calls attention to ‘‘the ascetics of the
forests who live in abstinence and chastity, and who have
with the divine particular relations."’ There is no question
here of a doctrine dialectically demonstrable, but rather of
an attitude of mind which can be shown in actions as well
as in words. It is probably just this ideal, imperfectly
understood as it was, which gives to the philosophy of
Pyrtho a character of superhuman grandeur and dignity.

Later the Indian embassy to Augustus renews the
sacrifice of Calanos and also awakens, without satisfying it,
the curiosity of the Greeks. By degrees the religions of the
Near East invade the Roman Empire, offering to all salvation
through one or many mediators between the divinity and
man.

It was for Plotinus to break with these tendencies and
to join together Indian mysticism and Greek wisdom. From
what source did Plotinus receive this revelation? The
recent discovery of writings of Mani allows us to-day to make
@ conjecture. In 241, after a voyage to India, the Iranian
apostle assumes the role of official reformer, and begins his
propaganda. The following year is marked as a turning

2

Google
10 JEAN PRZYLUSKI

point in the career of Plotinus. Leaving for ever his country
and his surroundings, he undertakes to go to Persia. One
cannot resist the supposition that Mani had by his propa-
ganda brought within reach of the West a certain number
of Indian ideas, and that by them the eager spirit of Plotinus
was suddenly illuminated.

The activity of seamen and of merchants had in the first
place created economic bonds between India and the West.
The conquests of the first Sassanid king mark the begin-
ning of a new era by imposing on vast territories unity and
peace. An interchange of ideas is established between
the East and the West. Indian asceticism colours the dualism
of Mani and the monism of Plotinus. Thanks to these two
powerful spirits moral bonds were established between
Rome and the distant Orient.

Google
The Sailendra Empire
(Up to the end of the tenth century A.0.)

By Dr. R. C. Majumdar

In the eighth century A.D. most of the small states in
Malayasia (comprising Malay Archipelago and Malay Penin-
sula) formed part of a mighty empire. The rulers of this vast
empire, atleast for the first four countries, belonged to the
Sailendra dynasty, and we may, therefore, call it the Sailendra
empire. The current notions about the character and origin of
this empire differ very widely, and form at present a subject
of keen controversy among scholars. As it touches the
very root of the matter, and we shall have to reconstruct the
history of Sumatra, Java and Malay Peninsula in altogether
different ways according as we accept the one wiew or the
other, I have discussed in detail these preliminary points in
a separate article. The history of the Sailendra empire, as
given below is based on the views formulated therein.

Our knowledge of the early history of the Sailendras is
based solely on four inscriptions. It will be convenient,
therefore, to begin with a brief summary of these records.

1, The Ligor Inscription, dated 775 A.D.*
Astelae, found at Ligor, in the Malay Peninsula, to the
south of the Bay of Bandon, contains two inscriptions on. its
two faces.

* The inscription A begins with eulogy of Sri-Vijayendra-
raja and then refers to the building of three brick temples for
Buddhist gods by Sri-Vijayeévarabbipati. Jayanta, the royal
priest _(rajasthavira), being ordered by the king, built three

1 This will be shortly published in the Balletin de Ecole Frangaise

@'Extréme Orient.
2 BE.F.E.O., vol. XVIII, 6, App. I. pp. 29.

Google
12 R. OC. MAJUMDAR

stapae. After Jayanta’s death, his disciple and successor
Adbimukti, built two brick caityas by the side of the three
caityas (built by the king). In conclusion, it is said that
Sri-Vijayanrpati, who resembled Devendra, built the stipas
here in Saka 697 (muni-nava-rasa).

The inscription B, engraved on the back of the stelae, con-
tains only one verse and a few letters of the second. It contains
the eulogy of an emperor (rdjédhirdja) having the name
Vignu (vignvdkhyo). The last line is difficult.’ It seems to
refer to a lord of the Sailendra dynasty named Sri-Maharaje,
and though probable, it is not absolutely certain,

this
person is the same as rajadhirdja having the name Visnu.

2. Kalasan Inscription dated 778 A.D.?

The inscription was discovered at the village of Kalasan
in Jogjakarta district of Java. Its contents may be summed
up as follows :—

*‘Adoration to Goddess Arya-Tara.

“The preceptors (Guru) of the Sailendra king had =
temple of Tara built with the help (or sanction) of Maharaja
dyah Pancapana panamkarana. At the command of the Gurus
some officers of the king built a temple, an image of Goddess
Tara and a residence for monks proficient in Vinaya-Maha-
yana.

1M, Coddes reads the second word in the last line as ‘Sailendra-
Veméaprabhunigadatah which gives no sense. 1 proposed to read the
last word in the compound as nigaditah. But M. Coddes has kindly
informed me in a letter thet there is no trace of ion d—Mus. on
B.EF.E.O., XXIX, 448 has suggested prabho(ba)nigadatah.

2 This inscription was originally published by Brandes in 1886,
T.B.G., vol. 31, pp. 240-60. It was re-edited by Sir R. G. Bhandarkar
in Journal of the Bo. Br.R.A.S., vol. XVII, part Il, pp. 1-10. The
Inst revised edition is by Bosch, T.B.G., vol. 68 (1928), pp. 57. Accord-
ing to Vogel, there aro two Sailendra kings referred to in thie inscrip-
tion, the Sumatran Sailendrarsja whose gura played an important part
in the foundation of the Téri temple, and karigéna Panamkarapa, the
scion of the Sailendra dynasty ruling in Java (B.K.I., vol. 75, p. 634).
Vogel has pointed out that Reriydna is equivalent to the old Javanese
rakarayan or rakvyan used as the title of = dignified officer, next only
to the king.

Google
THE SAILENDRA EMPIRE 13

“In the prosperous kingdom of the ornament of the Sailen-
dra dynasty (Sdilendra-vaméatilaka), the temple of Tara was
built by the preceptors of the Sailendra king. In the Saka year
700, Maharaja Panamk: builta temple of Tara for the
worship of Guru (gurupijartham), and made a gift of the
village of Kalasa to the Samgha. This gift should be protec-
ted by the king of the Sailendra dynasty. Sriman Kariyana
Panamkarana makes this request to the future king.””

3. The Kelurak Inscription dated 782 A.D.*

The inscription was originally situated at Kelurak, to the
north of Loro Jonggrang temple at Prambanan in Jogjakarta
District. It is illegible in many parts and the following
summary gives us the important points from the historical
point of view :—

“Adoration to the three jewels (ratnatraya). Praises of
Buddhist deities.

“This earth is being protected by the king named Indra, who
is an ornament of the Sailendra dynasty (Sailendra-vaméa-
tilaka), who has conquered kings in all directions, and who
has crushed the most powerful hero of the enemy (Vairi-vara-
vira-vimardena).

“By him whose body has been purified by the dust of the
feet of the preceptor coming from Gauda (Gaudi-dvipa-
guru), this image of Mafijuéri has been set up for the wel-
fare of the world by the royal preceptor (rdjaguru).

“In the Saka year 704, Kumaraghosha [i-e., the preceptor
from Gauda mentioned above] set up this Mafijughosha.

“This pillar of glory, an excellent landmark of religion
(dharmasetu), having the shape of an image of Mafijuéti,
is for the protection of all creatures.

“In this enemy of Mara (smararati-nisadana) exist
Buddha, Dharma and Sangha.

“This wielder of Thunder, sung as Svami Mafijuvak, con-

tains all gods, Brahma, Vignu and Maheévara,

1 Edited by Bosch in T.B.G., vol. 68 (1928), pp. If.

Google
uu R, 0. MAJUMDAR

“I request the future kings to maintain this landmark of
religion (dharmasetu).

“The preceptor, who has obtained the reverent hospi-
tality (satkara) of king Sri-Satgramadhanafjaya.

4. The Nalanda copper-plate Inscription dated in the
39th year of king Devapila.*

This copper-plate records the grant of five villages by
Devapala at the request of the illustrious Balaputradeva,
king of Suvarnadvipa (Suvarnadvipadhipa-Maharaja-Sri-
Balaputradeva).

The inscription concludes with a short account of Bala-
putradeva which may be summed up as follows :—

“There was a great king of Yavabhami (y°-pala), whose
name signified ‘tormentor of brave foes’ ( Vira-vairi-mathan-
Gnugata-bhidhanah) and who was an omament of the
Sailendra dynasty (Sailendra-veméa-tilaka).

“He had a valiant son (called) Samaragravira (or who
was the foremost warrior in battle).

“His wife Tara, daughter of king Sri-Varmasetu® of the

lunar race, resembled the goddess Tara.
“By this wife he had a son Sri-Balaputra, who built a

monastery at Nalanda’’.

The Ligor Inscription B definitely proves the establishment
of the Sailendra power in the Malay Peninsula. The inecrip-
tion on the other face hardly leaves any doubt that the

; Sailendra must have wrested at least the Ligor region from
{the hands of $ri-Vijaya sometime after 775 A.D. The
Kalasan and Kelurak inscriptions prove that about the same
time the ailendras established their authority in

Java.

1 Ep. Ind., vol. XVII, p. 310. The inscription was also published
separately by Mr. N. G. Majumdar as a memoir of the Varendra

Research Society.
2 Pandit H. Séetri reads this name as Dharmaseta, but Mr. N. G.

Majumdar's reading oarmaseta scems to me beyond doubt.

Google
THE GAILENDRA EMPIRE 16

Thus during the last quarter of the eighth century A.D.
‘the petty Hindu kingdoms of Sumatra, Java and Malay
Peninsula had all to succumb to or feel the weight of this new
power. The Sailendras ushered in a new epoch in more
,zenses than one. For the first time in history. Malayasia,
or the greater part of it, constituted a political entity as
integral parts of an empire, and we shall see Inter on, how it
shortly rose to a height of glory and splendour unknown
before. But the Sailendras did more than this. They
introduced a new type of culture. The new vigour of
Mahayana form of Buddhism which resulted in such splendid

!5 monuments as Candi Kalasan and Borobudur in Java may be

‘mainly attributed to their patronage: The introduction of a
new kind of alphabet which has been called the Pre-Nagari
script, and the adoption of a new name Kaliiiga for Ma-
layasia, at least by the foreigners, may also be traced to
the same source.

Yet, strangely enough, we have as yet no definite know-
ledge of the chief seat of authority of the Sailendras in

|Malayasia. It is generally held that they were originally
| tulers of Sri-Vijaya (Palembang in Sumatra) and extended
“their authority gradually over Java and Malay Peninsula.
I have discussed this question in the article referred to above,
and tried to show how the hypothesis rests on a very
weak basis. I hold the view that there are far better grounds
! for the belief that the original seat of authority of the
| Sailendras was either in Java or in Malay Peninsula. For the
present the question must be left open.

But supposing that either Sri-Vijaya or Malay Peninsula
was the nucleus of the ailendra empire, the question
arises whether Java was an integral part of the empire
ruled over by the same king, or whether it formeda separate,
though subordinate, kingdom under a member of the same
royal dynasty. The first view would in ordinary circums-
tances appear more reasonable. But two considerations have
been urged in support of the latter view. Inthe first place,
a8 we shall see later on, the Sailendra period in the history
of Java was the most glorious in respect of the development

Google
16 R. C, MAJUMDAR

of art and architecture, which reached its climax in the
famous monument of Borobudur. Now, neither Sumatra
nor the Malay Peninsula has left any monument worth the
name, and although the de: ve agencies of time and
nature may account for much, impossible to believe that
mighty monuments like Borobudur could have entirely
vanished without leaving any trace or memory behind. It is
difficult to believe, although such a thing may not be
altogether impossible, that an outlying dependency of such a
kingdom should produce so magnificent structures. In the
second place, in the Nalanda copperplate of Devapéla,
reference is made to Balaputradeva, the king of Suvarna-
dvipa, but his grand father is expressly referred to as a king
of Yavabhami, an omament of the Sailendra dynasty. If
Yavabhami means Java, as is commonly accepted, the
reference should bé taken to mean that Java formed a
separate state under a member of the same dynasty. Mainly
on these two grounds Krom has laid down the hypothesis
; that while Java no doubt came under the sphere of in-
fluence of Sri-Vijaya, sooner or later it came to form a
separate State under a member of the same dynasty which
ruled over Sri-Vijaya.?

Tam unable to concur in this view. As regards the first,
the argument is not so forcible against Malay Peninsula. Mr.
R. J. Wilkinson has noted that ‘here and there in the forests
of the Siamese Western States are fallen cities and temples,
the relics of a civilisation that built in imperishable stone.”

{ He has also referred to other facts which “point to the past
! existence of powerful states anda high standard of wealth
i and luxury in the north of the Malay Peninsula.""® Besides,
it may be easily supposed that the seat of central authority
was transferred to Java for a period. As to the second argu-
ment, I have shown in the article referred to that the

1 Krom, Geschiednis, pp. 13840. M. Coddes, in a private letter,
objects to the Malay Peninsula on the following, among other grounds-
“The Peninsula is as poor in entiquities as Palembang itself.”

2-R. G. Wilkinson, A History of the Peninsular Malays (3rd ed.),
Singapore, 1923, p. 15.

Google
‘THE SAILENDRA EMPIRE 7

‘expression yava-bhdmipdla in the Nalandé copperplate may
lead to a very different inference from that of Krom.

But whatever we might think of the original seat of the
Sailendras, there is no doubt that from the ninth century
A.D. they were the dominant power in Malayasia. The Sailen-
dra empire is mentioned by various Arab writers who
designate it as Zabag or Zabaj, or the empire of Maharaja,
and they describe its wealth and grandeur in glowing terms.
It is quite clear from these accounts that the authority of
the king of Zabag extended over nearly the whole of Malaya-
sia and possibly also over the two mighty kingdoms in Indo-
China, viz., Cambodia and Campa.

As regards Kamboja we have a tradition preserved by
the merchant Sulaiman, whose account of a voyage in India
and China was originally written in 851 and published by
Abu Ziyad Hasan, with additional remarks, in 916 A.D.
Sulaiman gives us the following story? :—

“‘It is said, in the annals of the country of Zabag, that
in years gone by the country of Khmer came into the hands
of a young prince of very hasty temper. One day he was
seated with the Vizier when the conversation turned upon the
‘empire of the Maharaja, of its splendour, the number of its
subjects and of the nds subordinate to it. All at once
the king said to the Vizier, “I have taken a fancy into my
head which I should much like to gratify...... 1 should li
eee before me the head of the king of Zabag in a dish......
These words passed from mouth to mouth and so spread
that they at length reached the ears of the Maharaja. That
king ordered his Vizier to have a thousand vessels of
medium size prepared with their engines of war, and to put
on board ofeach vessel as many arms and soldiers as it
could carry. When the preparations were ended, and every-
thing was ready, the king went on board his fleet and

1 Elliot, History of India as told by its own Historians, vol. I, p.8

Ferrand in J.A., IL—XX (1922), pp. 588. 2198, The story is also
repeated by Masudi (Ferrand Textes I, p. 93).

3

Google
18 B.C, MAJUMDAR:

proceeded with his troops to Khmer...... The king of Khmer
knew nothing of the impending danger until the fleet had
entered the river which led to his capital, and the troops of
the Maharaja had landed. The Maharaja thus took the king
of Khmer unawares and upon his palace. He had the
king brought forth and had his head cut.of........ The Maharaja
returned immediately to his country and neither he nor any
of his men touched anything belonging to the king of Khmer

Afterwards the Maharaja had the head washed and em-

med, then putting it in a vase, he sent it to the prince who
then occupied the throne of Khmer."*

) The story undoubtedly belongs to the domain of folk-
lore, but seems to have been basedon a real struggle between
Zabag and the Khmer kingdom of Cambodia. This is
confirmed by an inscription discovered in Cambodia iteelf.
The Sdok Kak Thom Inscription, written in Sanskrit and
Khmer, and dated in 974 Saka (=1052 A.D.) tells us that
king Jayavarman Il, who came from Java to reign in the
city of Indrapura, performed a religious ceremony in
order that Kambujadeéa might not again be dependent on
Java.* As Jayavarman Il ruled from 802 to 869A. D. it
follows that the Khmer kingdom of Cambodia had come
under the influence of Java towards the close of the
eighth century A.D. Taking Java of the inscription to be
identical with Zabag of the Arabian account, it is
reasonable to refer the ‘old’ story of Sulaiman to the
same period. This fits in well with other known facts.
‘We have seen that the Sailendras had established their autho- 4
rity over Malay Peninsula and Java by 775 and 778 A.D. It
is therefore quite reasonable to hold that they had at least a
temporary success against the Khmers towards the close of
the eighth century A.D. About the same period the fleet
of Java raided the coast of Annam as far as Tonkin in the
north. The Chinese annals refer to an invasion of the
“March of Tran-nam in 767 A.D. by the people of Co-lon
(Kuen-Luen) and of Daba, which Maspero identifies with

1 BEFE.O., vol. XV, Part ii, p. 87.

Google
THE SAILENDRA EMPIRE w

Chopo or JJava.! In the inscription of the kingdom of
Campa (corresponding to Annam, south of Tonkin) several
references are made to naval raids by ‘a foreign people and
in one case the raiders are named ‘forces coming by way of
sea from Java.’ The first reference occurs in Po-Nagar
stelae inscription of King Satyavarman dated 706 Saka (=784
A.D). It runs as follows? :—

“In the Seka year, denoted by Kosa-nava-rtu (696=774
A.D.), ferocious, pitiless, dark-coloured people of other
cities, whose food was more horrible than that of the
vampires and who were vicious and furious like Yama, came
in ships, took away the Mukhalinga of the God (Sambhu,
established at Kauthira by Vicitrasagara) and set fire to the
abode of the God, as the armed crowds of Daityas did in
heaven.”

‘The same event is referred to in another inscription as
follows’ :—"Multitudes of vicious cannibals coming from
other countries by means of ships carried away the

The next reference occurs in Yang Tikuh stelae inscrip-
tions of Indravarman |, dated 721 Saka (=799 A.D).
Speaking of the temple of Bhadradhipatiévara it says‘ that
‘it was burnt by the army of ‘Java coming by means of ships
and became empty in the Saka year 709 (=787 A.D.).

Here, again, we find the fleet of Java raiding the
distant coast of Campa during the last quarter of the eighth
century A.D. Although definite evidence is wanting, there
are reasons to believe that the successive naval raids over-
threw the royal dynasty of Campa. But even if it were 80,
the success was a shortlived one. For a new dynasty soon
established itself in Java.’ On the whole, therefore, while
there is nothing to show that the fleet of Java gained any
permanent material success in Campa, the circumstances

1 Maspero, Le rogaume de Champa, pp. 97.98 and p. 96 f.n. 4.
Da-ba may be equivalent to Arabic Djawig.

2 R. C. Majumdar, Champ, Book Ill, p. 43.

3 Ibid., p. 70. 4 Ibid., p. 50,

5 Ibid., Book I, ch. V.

Google
20 R. 0. MAJUMDAR

narrated above indicate their power, prestige and daring
nature.

Now the question arises about the identity of Java
mentioned in the Cham record. It has usually been taken
to stand for Yavadvipa or the island of but it may also
be taken as equivalent to Arabic Zabag and thus identical
with the Sailendra empire. In the present instance, how-
ever, it makes but little difference whether we identify it
with the one or the other, for, as we have seen, Java was
at that time either included within the empire of the Sailendras
or ruled by a member of the same dynasty, and as such there
must have been a close association between the two so far
at least ag the foreign policy was concerned. On the whole,
therefore, we are justified in regarding the naval reids as
ultimately emanating from the empire of the Sailendras.'

iv

The emergence of the Sailendras as the leading naval
power in Indonesia constituted an international event of
outstanding importance. The Arabian merchant Sulaiman
concludes his story quoted above, by saying that “this
incident raised the king (of Zabag) in the estimation of the
rulers of India and China.”

The evidences collected above. leave no doubt that
the empire of the Sailendras reached the high-water mark
of ite greatness and glory in the eighth century A.D. The
following century saw the beginning of the inevitable
decline. By the middle of the ninth century A.D. their
supremacy was successfully challenged by the two great
neighbouring States of Cambodia and Java. We have
already seen the determined attempt of Jayavarman Il of
Cambodia (802-869 A.D.) to throw off the yoke of the
Sailendras, and there is no doubt that he was entirely euc-

1 It is, of course, possible to regard the naval raiders as mere
pirates belonging to no country in particular. But the pointed references
to the raiders as “‘ndoagatair—Java-oola-samghais” seems to exclude this
possibility. The expression implies ‘an organised force eent from Java
by way of sea,’ and should more reasonably be taken se belonging to
the ruling authority in Java,

Google
THE SAILENDRA EMPIRE a

cessful in that respect. There is no evidence that the
Sailendras had any pretension of supremacy over that king-
dom after Jayavarman’s time.

About the same time, the Sailendras lost their hold on
Java. Unfortunately we know almost nothing of the circum-
stances under which the Sailendras lost Java. It is also
difficult to assign even. any approximate date for this event.
If king Samarottuiga who issued the Kedu inscription in
A.D. 847 may be identified with king Samaragravira of the
Nalanda copperplate, we may presume that the authority
of the Sailendra kings had continued in fava till at least the
middle of the ninth century A.D. But this identification
cannot be he'd as certain, the more so because a later king of
East Java also bore the title Samarottuiga. In any case the
Sailendras must have lost their authority in Java by 879 A.D.,
as we find that Central Java was then being ruled over by a
king of Java belonging to a different dynasty. The middle of
the ninth century A.D. may thus be regarded as the approxi-
mate limit of the Sailendra supremacy in Java.”

Vv

But in spite of the loss of Cambodia and Java, the
Sailendra empire retained its position as a great power, and
to the outside world it was still the greatest political power
in the Pacific region.

In addition to the Nalanda copperplate which describes
the Sailendras as rulers of Suvarnadvipa or Malayasia, our
knowledge of them about this period is derived from the
accounts left by Arab writers, who, as already remarked,
refer to the country as Zabag. Ibn Kfordadbeh (844-848
A.D) says that the king of Zabag is named Maharaja.
His daily revenue amounts to two hundred mans of gold. He
prepares a solid brick of this gold and throws it into water,
saying ‘there is my treasure.’ A part of his revenue, about
50 mans of gold per day, is derived from cock-fight. A leg
of the cock which wins belongs by right to him and the \

1. The history of the Sailendras in Java will be further giscumed in
8 separate article,

Google
2 R. C. MAJUMDAR

owner of the cock redeems it by paying ite value in
gold. *

The Arab merchant Sulaiman (851 A.D.) gives a more
detailed account of the empire of Zabag. He says, “Kalah-
bar (j., the country round the Isthmus of Kra in the Malay
Peninsula) is a part of the empire of Zabag which is situated
to the south of India. Kalah-bar and Zabag are governed by
the same king.*"

‘The same account is repeated by Ibn-al-Fakih who adds
that there is no country in the south after Zabag and that its
king is very rich.”

Ibn Rosteh, writing about 903 A.D., remarks: “The great
| king (of Zabag) is called Maharaja ie, king of kings. He is

not regarded as the greatest among the kings of India
because he dwells in the islands. No other king is richer

These Arab writers as well as several others such as
Ishak bin Imran (died about 907 A.D.) and Ibn Serapion also
refer to merchandises exported from Zabag and tell us
marvellous tales of the country.

But the most detailed account of Zabag is furnished by
Abu Zaid Hasan who published, about A.D. 916, the account
originally written by Sulaiman in 851 A.D., with additional

‘ remarks of his own. He applies the name Zabag both to
i the kingdom and its capital city. Hie remake may be
| summed up as follows :—

“The distance between Zabag and China is one month's
journey by sea-route. It may be even less if the winds are
favourable.

“The king of this town has got the title Maharaja. The
area of the kingdom is about 900 (square) Parsangs. The
king is also overlord of a large number of islands extending
cover a length of 1000 Parsangs or more. Among the king-
doms over which he rules are the island called Sribuza

1 L.A. IXX (1922), pp. 5253.
2 Ibid, p. 53.
3 Ibid., pp. 5455.
4 Ibid., p. 55.

Google
THE SAILENDRA EMPIRE 3

) with an area of about 400 (square) Parsangs,
and the island called Rami with an area of about 800 (square)
Parsangs. The maritime country of Kalah, midway between
Arabia and China, is also included among the territories of
Maharaja. The area of Kalah is about 80 (square) Parsangs.
The town of Kalah is the most important commercial centre
for trade in aloe, camphor, sandalwood, ivory, tin, ebony,
spices and various other articles. There was a regular
maritime intercourse between this port and Oman. 7

“The Maharaja exercises his sovereignty on all these
islands. Theisland in which he lives is very thickly popula-
ted from one end to the other.

“There is one very extraordinary custom in Zabag. The

palace of the king is connected with the sea bya shallow |

lake. Into this the king throws every morning a brick made
of solid gold. These bricks are covered by water during
tide, but are visible during ebb. When the king dies, all these
bricks are collected, counted and weighed and these are
entered in official records. The gold is then distributed
among the members of the royal family, generale and royal
slaves according to their rank and the remnant buted
among the poor.*"”

Masudi has given some details about Zabag in his work,
“Meadows of gold”’ (943 A.D.). Some of his relevant remarks
are summed up below? :-—

|. India is a vast country extending over sea and land
and mountains. It borders on the country of Zabag,: which
is the kingdom of the Maharaja, the king of the islands.
Zabag which separates India from China is comprised within
the former country. (p.92.)

2. The kingdom of Khmer is on the way to the kingdoms
of the Maharaja, the king of the islands of Zabag, Kalah and
Sirandib. (Here follows the story quoted above, of the

1 Ibid., pp. 568. ‘The account concludes with the story of the
struggle between the king of Zibeg and the king of Khmer which has
already been quoted above.

2 Ferrand, Textes, vol. I, Figuree within brackets refer to pages of
this volume.

Google
py B. 0, MAJUMDAR.

expedition of the Mahiraja against the Khmer king and the
death of the latter.) (p.93.)

3. (The story of the throwing of a gold bar every day
into the lake near the palace.) (p.93.)

4. Formerly there was adirect voyage between China

* and ports like Siraf and Oman. Now the port of Kalah

serves as the meeting place for the mercantile navies of the
two countries, (p.96.)

5. In the bay of Campa, is the empire of the Maharaja,
the king of islands, who rules over an empire without limit and
has innumerable troops. Even the most rapid vessels could
not complete in two years a tour round the isles which are
under his possession. The territories of this king produce all
sorts of spices and aromatics and no other sovereign of the
world has as much wealth from the soil. (p.99.)

6. In the empire of the Maharaja is the island of Sei-
buza (=Sri-Vijaya) which is situated at about 400 Parsangs
from the continent and{entirely cultivated, The king pose
‘esses also the islands of Zabag and Ramni; and many
other islands and the whole of the sea of Campi are in-
cluded in his domain. (p. 100.)

7. The country, of which Mandurapatan is the capital,
is situated opposite to Ceylon, as the Khmer country is in rela-
tion to the isles of the Maharaja, such as Zabag and others.
(p. 107.)

The next in point of time is the account given by Ibrahim
bin Wasif Sah (c. 1000 A.D.). “Zabag is a large archipelago
thickly populated and with abundant means of liveli-
hood. It is said that the Chinese, ruined by foreign inva-
sions and civil wars, came and pillaged all the islands of
the Archipelago and all their towns.

“The islands of Zabag are numerous ; one of them, known
as ‘“‘Sribuza has an area of 400 (square) Parsangs.*””

Albiruni (c. 1030 A.D.) says, ‘The eastern islands in
this ocean, which are nearer to China than to India, are the
islands of the Zabaj, called by the Hindus Suvama-dvipa

1 J.A., WXX (1922), pp. 63-64.

Google
THE SAILENDRA EMPIRE 5

ive., the gold islands. ... The islands of the Zabaj are
called the Gold Country (Suvama-dvipa), because you obtain
much gold as deposit if you wash only a little of the earth
of that country."

The accounts of the Arab writers quoted above leave no
doubt that a mighty empire, comprising a large part of the
Malay Archipelago and Malay Peninsula, flourished from
the middle of the ninth to at least the end of the tenth
century A.D. Thus we must hold thet even after the loss
of Java and Cambodia, the Sailendra empire continued to
flourish for more than a century, and Sribuza or Sri-Vijaya
formed an important and integral part of it.

vi

The Chinese annals contain references to a kingdom
called San Fo-tsi which undoubtedly stands for the Sailendra
empire. We learn from them that several embassies of the
Sailendras visited China during the tenth century A.D.

In the year 904 or 905 A.D. the govemor of the capital
city was sent as an ambassador with tribute. The Chinese
emperor honoured him with a title which means “‘the
General who pacifies the distant countries.’

In the 9th month of the year 960 A.D. king Si-li hou-ta
Hie-li-tan sent an ambassador named Li-tche-ti with tributes.
During the winter of 961 A.D. the tribute was sent by a king
called Ché-li Wou-ye. These ambassadors reported that the
Kingdom of San-fo-tsi was also called Sien-lieou.*

In the spring of 962 A.D. the king Ché-li Wou-ye sent to

1 Sachau, ‘Alberani, vol. I, p. 210, vol. Il, p. 106.

2 JA. Mexx (1922), p. 17,9.

3 Ibid., p. 17, notes 2 and 3. It is dificult to suggest the original of
the proper names given in Chinese. Ferrand suggests the following :

(1) Siti houta Hieli-tan=(Malais) Seri kuda Haridane,

@ Chali Wouye=Sri Wuja. Takakusu, however takes the frst
name as Sri Kijehirit or $11 Guptahayta (Records, p. XLII.
Ferrand further amends Sien-licou as Mo-licou and regards it as equivalent
to Malayu. Needless to say, thete suggestions ate purely problem-
atical and far from convincing.

4

Google
26 R. C, MAJUMDAR

China an embassy, composed of three ambassadors, with
tribute. They brought back several articles from China.’

Four embassies were sent in 971, 972, 974 and 975 A.D.

In 980 and 983 A.D. the King Hia-tche sent ambasea-
dors with tribute, Hia-tche probably stands for the old
Malay word ‘Haji’ which means king.’

The trade relation with China was also revived in the
tenth century. In 971 A.D. a regular shipping-house was
opened at Canton, and two more were later opened at Hang-
chu and Ming-chu. We are told that foreign merchants,
from Arabia, Malay Peninsula, Sen Fo-tsi, Java, Borneo,
Philippine and Campa frequented these places.*

In the year 980 A.D. a merchant from San Fo-ti arrived
at Swatow with a cargo which was carried to Canton.‘

. Again in the year 985 A.D. the master of a ship came
i and presented products of his country.*

The Arabic and Chingse accounts thus both testify to
the political and commercial greatness of the Sailendra
empire throughout the tenth century A.D. Unfortunately
we posses very few details of the political history of the
kingdom. The only facts of outstanding importance that are
known to us, in outline only, are its relations with Java and
with the Chola kingdom in South India.

The History of the Sung dynasty gives us the first
definite information that we possess regarding the relation
between the Sailendras and Java, since the latter kingdom
freed itself from the control of the former. We leam from
this chronicle that in 968 A.D. an ambassador from San
Fo-tsi cama with tribute to China. He left the imperial
capital in 990 A.D. But on reaching Canton he learnt that
his country had been invaded by Cho-po (Java). So he
rested there for about a year. In the spring of 992 A.D. the

1 JA, Mex (1923, p. 17%, 9. 4, According to Ma-Twandin
this embessy was sent by the king Li-silin-nan-ml-jelai (ie, Mi-elai,
son of Li--lin)

2 Ibid, p. 18.

3 Rockhill in T’oung Pao, 15 (1914), p. 420.

4 J.A., U-xx (1922), p. 18; Groeneveldt, Notes, p. 64.

5 Ibid.

Google
THE SAILENDRA EMPIRE a7

ambassador went with his navy to Campa, but as he did
not receive any good news there, he came back to China and
requested the emperor to issue @ decree making San Fo-tsi }
‘a protectorate of China.* :

‘We hardly know anything about the origin and incidents
of this hostility, which took a serious turn in the last decade
of the tenth century A.D. But it is not difficult to imagine
that the relations between the two countries had always been
hostile and perhaps there were intermittent fights, or it may,
be that Dharmavaméa, the king of Java, felt powerful enough
to follow an imperial policy like his neighbour and this
naturally brought about a collision between the two. But
whatever that may be, there is no doubt about the result of
the struggle. To begin with, the king of Java had splendid
success and invaded the enemy's country. But hie success
was neither decisive nor of a permanent character. In
1003 A.D. San Fo-tsi recovered her strength sufficiently
to send an embassy to China without any hindrance from
Java.’ In 1006 A.D. the kingdom of ‘Java was destroyed by a
catastrophe, the exact nature of which is not known. So the
$ailendra empire was freed from any further fear from that
quarter.*

1 Mid, pp. 18:19. 2 Ibid, p. 19.

3 This incomplete article represents the first chapter of the history
of the Sailendras in my forthcoming book ‘Ancient Indien Colonies
in the Fer East, vol. Il, Suvarnadcipa or Melayesia” [ie Malay
Peninsula and Malay ‘Archipelago]. The subsequent history of the
Sailendras is dealt with in the two following chaptere—

(1) The struggle between the Sailendras and the Cholas

(2) Decline and fall of the Sailendra Empire,

Google
The use of the Visarga symbol in some
of the languages of Greater India
By Dr. C. O. Blagden

In an article “On the Benares Pronunciation of the
Sanskrit Visarga” in the Centenary Supplement to the
Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society of Great Britain and
Ireland, (October, 1924, p. 117) Sir George Grierson
remarks: “‘I still consider that the ordinary pronunciation
of visarga is nothing but a glottal check. This is confirmed
by the fact that in Indo-Chinese languages such as Siamese,
which have tones, but are written in this or that alphabet
based on Déva-nagari, the glottal check is represented in
writing by the sign corresponding to viearga. So also in
Khmér, a language without tones but possessing the glottal
check, the latter is represented in the same way. From this
it is evident that when the learned men, who put these
languages into writing, heard the visarga sounded, it struck
their ears as a glottal check, a phenomenon with which they
were, of course, familiar.”

The passage quoted above was only incidental to the
main subject of Sir George's article, which is indicated by
its title and with which I have here no concem. But it
raises some other points of interest by its reference to
languages outside India proper which use alphabets of
Indian origin; and, so far as I am aware, no comments
have hitherto been made on it from that point of view. In
passing, it may be mentioned that all the extant Indian
alphabets of South-Eastern Asia and the neighbouring
islands are derived, not from the Nagari, but from the
Southern Brahmi of the Deccan. That, however, is a matter
of subsidiary importance so far as the present brief note is
concerned, my object being rather to draw attention to the
use of the visarga in the languages of these outlying regions.

So far as Siamese and Khmér enter into the argument,

Google
THE USE OF THE VISARGA SYMBOL 29

there is not much to be said. I believe that in the Lao
language of Eastern Siam the visarga has also, as in Siamese,
the force of the glottal check (or unexploded glottal stop,
as it is now perhaps more generally called).

But when Sir George refers to “‘Indo-Chinese languages"
in general terms, a wider issue is raised and it seems
desirable to supplement the evidence more in detail. Rely-
ing as it does on two languages, his conclusion depends in
substance on a single alphabet, the Khmér, from which the
Siamese was derived. When we tur to others we get quite
a different result.

To mention in the first place, the Mon (or Talaing)
alphabet of Southern Burma, with which I am most familiar,
its visarga always has the force of h. The oldest document
in the language, an inscription of Lophburi, in Southern
Siam, published in the Bulletin de I’ Ecole Frangaise d’
Extréme-Orient (1930), and judged by its style of writing
to be of the 7th century A.D., contains but one word that
is to the point, namely the pronoun of the third person,
fiah, still written thus to this day, and now pronounced
fieh, with a final h. But similarly in the late Ith and carly
12th century Mon inscriptions of Burma we find for the
demonstrative pronoun ‘that’ the alternative forms goh,
goh, and, curiously enough, gohh, the modem pronunciation
being kah (with an open o sound). It is needless to multi-
ply instances: suffce it to say that where the visarga was
in old Mon immediately preceded by the (unwritten) vowel
a, it is generally preserved in modem writing but pronounced
‘as h, and where it was preceded by some other vowel, it is
now replaced by an h with a virdma.

The Mon language also possessed the final unexploded
stop and represented it in a somewhat original way by
means of the letter a surmounted by a virdma. In modern
writing this virdma has been superseded by the anusvara,
which is a source of some confusion, as in other words it
serves for final m (and in one or two for final A). But the
general conclusion is plain: Mon had both phenomena,
final h and final glottal stop, and for the former: it used,

Google
30 C. 0, BLAGDEN

and to some extent still uses, the visarga, but not for the
latter. .
As regards Burmese which adopted the Mon alphabet,
it is well known that the visarga is now employed to indi-
cate the long falling tone, without glottal stop. For the
latter, the Burmese Myazedi inscription of the early 12th cen-
century follows the Mon method of a with virama (nowadays
it is done by an anusvara below the letter), but does not
use the visarga at all in the words in which modem spelling
has it, to indicate the long falling tone.

In Cham, an ancient language of French Indo-China,
the visarga has always been, and still is, used to represent
final h. As the language, which has a mixed vocabulary,
contains a number of Indonesian words ending in their
sound in common with their equivalents in other Indonesian
languages, there can be no doubt at all that this was its
value in the earliest Cham inscriptions, as it is to-day.

Turning now to the Indonesian island languages that
use, or at one time used, forms of the Indian alphabet, we
find that the Sri-Vijaya inscriptions of Saka 606 and 608,
A.D. 684 and 686 (Bulletin de I’Ecole Francaise d’ Extréme-
Orient, 1930, pp. 29, seq), which are in something that
may conveniently be called old Malay, invariably use the
visarga for final h and for no other purpose whatever.
These are the oldest documents in any local language of
the Eastern Archipelago, and here again we are on the
safe ground of Indonesian linguistics. The same, to cut
matters short, is true of Javanese from the 8th century A.D.
onwards, and of other languages written in the same or
some allied script.

The inference seems to be that some, at any rate, of
the learned men who spread the use of the Indian alphabet
in these regions were in the habit of pronouncing the
visarga as a final h, and not as the unexploded glottal stop,
unless indeed their adoption of it for the purpose was as
arbitrary as the use of it in Burmese appears to us to be. But
in view of the number of languages in which the visarga is
used for final h, this alternative seems somewhat improbable.

Google
Early Art of Srivijaya
By Devaprasad Ghosh

Srivijaya was the seat of a powerful maritime empire
from the seventh to the twelfth century A.D. It has been
identified by M. Coedés with Palembang in Sumatra. ‘The
kings of the Sailendra dynasty of Srivijaya ruled not only
over the greater portion of Sumatra, but also in Central
Java, portions of the Malay Peninsula, and in numerous
islands of the Archipelago. There is a tradition (men-
tioned by Arab travellers) of their overrunning Cam-
bodia. They maintained friendly relations with the
Pala kings of Bengal and with the Chola kings of South
India. As the rulers of Srivijaya were devout Mahayanists,
they constructed a Buddhist monastery at Nalanda with the
permission of Devapala of Bengal and a Buddhist temple
Negapatam with the consent of Rajaraja Chola. Later on
there was war between the two maritime powers Chola and
Srivijaya.""' From the thirteenth century onwards Srivijaya
was overshadowed by Java.

It is strange thet the most remarkable monuments of
Sailendra art are not to be found on the Sumatran soil.
Borobudur—the wonderous epic in stone—and other beauti-
ful temples like Chandi Mendut, Chandi Sari, Chandi Kalasan,
are all located in Central Java. Until recently Sumatra
iteelf was poor in archaeological remains. But from 1920
onwards several important finds of deep significance, con-
sisting of ruined temples, inscriptions, Buddhist images of
stone and bronze, as well as some relief with decorative
motifs, have been discovered in or about Palembang. We
are greatly indebted to Dr. N. J. Krom for his instructive
and penetrating survey of these antiquities in the pages of

the latest issue of Annual Bibliography of Indian Archaeology — -

1B. R. Chatterjee, India and Java, Calcutta, 1933, p. 41.

300gle

Vv
32 DEVAPRASAD GHOSH

of the Kern Institute. “The few ancient remains which
Srivijaya has bequeathed to us,” he says in the con-
cluding lines of this illuminating article,’ “‘present various prob-
lems, the solution of which may be expected in the first place
from scholars familiar with the history of the art of India
proper. To their attention we commend the study of the
early art of Srivi

Looking at the accompanying reproductions, our interest
is first of all aroused by the remarkable representations of

~— the headless stone Buddha of ‘absolutely un-Javanese type."
According to Dr. Krom? it “clearly shows such close affinity
with the type found on the Indian continent that in all pro-
bability it may be taken as a specimen of the earliest art of
Srivijaya, directly derived from Indian art at a time before
the near relations with Java in the eighth century brought
the ‘Sailendra art’ into being. In this connection the
presence on the same spot of records in Pallava script of the
seventh century must be taken into account.” The treat-
ment of the drapery with its stiff folds and rigid vertical
border, betraying Hellenistic influence, has justly led him to
relate this statue to the Amaravati Schagl of Art. His con-
clusions on this point are highly convincing. They are not
merely tentative, as he modestly observes. In fact, there
cannot be any other opinion on the relic in question which
we can safely ascribe on stylistic grounds to a period
not later than the 4th century A.D.

Continuing the above argument Dr. Krom observes,
“Some scholars have maintained, that Amaravati is to be
regarded as the place from which Javanese art originated,
without however adducing any convincing proof of their
assertion. But although the theory of such assertion cannot
be upheld with reference to Java, it is possibly correct as
far as the earliest art of Srivijaya is concerned.” The un-
‘doubted influence of the Amaravati School of Sculpture of

1N, J. Krom, ‘Antiquities of Palembang, ‘Annual Bibliography of
Indian Archeology, 1931, pp. 29-33.

2 Ibid., pl. XI, a, b.

3 Ibid., p. 31.

Google
Original from

Digitized by Google UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
PLATE 1

Stone Budd
Palemb:

mayo, Fig. 1. Stone statue of

Avalokitesva!
Palembang

IMLS, danncry, 13,

Original from

Google UNIVERSITY OF Mi

EARLY ART OF SRIVIJAYA 33

the Andhra-Ikevaku period is also reflected in several Buddha
images recovered from different parts of Indo-China and
Indonesia.’ They hail from Doo Duong in central Annam*
from K’orat and Pong Tiik in Siam from old Prome in
Burma‘ and from South Djember in Eastern Java.*

We cannot, however, agree with Dr. Krom’s further
opinion‘ that “the relations with Southern India, although
their existence is proved by unimpeachable evidence, have
exercised no influence of any importance on this art.”
Regarding the fragmentary stone statuette of » Bodhisattva
figure and the striking stone statue of Avalokiteévara,’ he
admits that “‘their style certainly does not agree with that
of the earliest images of Java,” but he fails to explain their
peculiar character and workmanship. On a closer examina-
tion of these statues the reasons for this “‘un-Javanese” im-
pression appear evident. For in the details of iconograph:
dress and embellishment as well as in the general plastic
feeling they definitely recall South Indian types. The
statue of Avalokiteévara (fig. 1) in particular in ite heavy
immobility and roundness, its compact massive structure,
its stern simplicity and soft smooth gracefulness, is almost
an echo of the monumental Pallava reliefs of the 7th century
‘at Mamallapuram in the Madras Presidency. The discovery
of a stone slab bearing an inscription in Pallava-grantha
characters in the neighbourhood further strengthens this
notable testimony to the cultural contact between the Pallavas
and Srivijaya.

Next let us examine the unique little bronze Buddha head
(fig. 2) which really appears to be enigmatical at first sight.
“The piece in question,” observes Dr. Krom in the above

1D. P. Ghosh, Amaravati School of Sculpture, Cal. Rev. Feb.
1931, pp. 224-26.

2 Leuba, Les Chams et lear Art, 1923, pl. XVII.

3 Coedés, Journal of the Siam Society vol. XXI, pl. 18.

4 ‘Ann Bib, Ind. ‘Arch., 1928, pl. X,

5 Cohn, Buddha in der Kunst des Ostens, Leipzig, 1925, ple. 29, 31.
6 Ann, Bib, Ind. ‘Arch., 1931, p. 31.

7 Ibid., pl. XM, ee.

5

Google
Ere DEVAPRASAD GHOSH

context, “‘is decidedly un-Javanese in character, except for
such details as are common to the bronze art in general of
the Malay Archipelago and the adjoining regions of the
Malay Peninsula. Even such details as the treatment of the
ear are different. The most conspicuous peculiarity of the
bronze head is no doubt the fillet decorated with rosettes
which ourrounds it, a feature never met with in the case of
the Buddha images from Java. Apparently it is meant for
a garland of honour, very effective in association with
the traditional curly locks of Buddha.’ So this mys-
terious head raises problems not a little interesting. We
think that the standing bronze Buddha from South Djember
mentioned above, which belongs to c. 6th century A.D.,
supplies the clue to the origin of the baffling head. Although
recovered from Eastern Java, the Buddha statue presumably
belongs to South India. If we compare its head (fig. 3) with
the Sumatran specimen, many striking affinities may be dis-
cerned. Apart from the fillet, such common features as
general physiognomy, the undulating outline of the head
characterised by large and prominent spiral Jocks, the treat-
ment of the eyes, lips and ears specially, as well as the
modelling of the cheek and chin accompanied by a sense of
sharp precision, proclaim the evident kinship between the
two examples. This comparative study leads us to infer
that the prototype, which inspired the unique Sumatran head,
should be sought in some part of Vengi in South India.
For the bronze Buddha found in Java betrays the indelible
impress of the Amaravati style.

It may be noticed, that the Sumatran Buddha head is
closely akin to the bronze Buddha heads from Buddhapad
near Bezwada described by Sewell nearly forty years ago.”
Some of these last appear from their technique and treat-
ment to belong to the Gupta period, others are of much

1 Ibid., p. 32; pl. X,
2 R. Sewell, Some Buddhist Bronzes and Relics of Buddha,

IR.AS., 1895, pl. 2, figs 1, 2.

Google
EARLY ART OF SRIVIJAYA 35

later date.’ We are confronted in both the cases with the
same oval face, with pointed chin and sharp angular nose
and the same half-opened eyes. It should be observed here
that there is less stylistic correspondence between the Indo-
nesian bronze Buddhas and the bronze Buddha statuettes
discovered by Rea at Amaravati itself,? which are character-
ised by large squarish heads, fully opened eyes, flat nose,
heavy lips, broad chests and bodies obscured by the straight
hanging folds of the heavy garment.? These peculiarities
of the Amaravati style lead us to infer that the stone image of
Buddha from Sumatra mentioned above (p. 32) should belong
to the same Andhra-lkevaku period. These early Amaravati
sculptures should be distinguished from the Gupta and
early mediaeval statues from Buddhapad with their tapering
crowns, oval heads, sloping shoulders, slim features and
tightly clinging transparent drapery revealing the contour
of the limbs. Apart from the stray later sculptures dis-
covered from different sites, we learn from the mediaeval
inscriptions of Ketaraja Il, the Kota chief of Amaravati, that
the Buddhist religion continued to have votaries in the Telugu
country, also that there “the great Chaitya was still in exist-
in good condition even as late as the 12th century

The next group of three exquisite bronzes representing
Maitreya, Avalokitesvara and Buddha® might be easily taken
for Javanese bronzes according to Dr. Krom. But though
various details in their case show the characteristics of
Javanese Sailendra art, their design and conception along
with certain other details (¢.g., the jafamukuta, the full
equarish face, the necklace and uttariya and lastly the
flowing curves of the swelling sensuous body fashioned with

1 An inscription from the fragments of a pedestal can be dated
about 1000 A.D., according to Buhler.

2 Ann, Rep. Arch. Suro, Ind., 1908-09, pl. XXVIII, figs. ac, e-g.

3D. P. Ghosh, Development of Buddhist Art in South India, pt. I,
Ind. Hist. Quarterly, Sept. 1927; pp. 496-97.

4 Epigrophia Indica, vol. VI, p. 1486.

5 Ann, Bib. Ind, Arch., 1931, pl, X, ©, d, e.

Google
96 DEVAPRASAD GHOSH

delicate touches) are reminiscent of the Pala art of Bengal
(fig. 4). Dr. A.J. Benet Kempers in his recent able mono-
graph has proved the influence of Nalanda bronzes upon
HindudJavanese art beyond doubt. We must remember
that apart from the foundation of a monastery at Nalanda
during the reign of Devapala by the Sailendra monarch
Balaputra, Dharmapala, the famous Guru of Nalanda, is
I stated on the high authority of Prof. Kern, to have passed
his last years in Sumatra. The Kelurak inscription also tells
us of the visit of a famous Rajaguru from Gaudadvipa
(Bengal) to (ava.t So there is nothing surprising in the
evident traces of the Pala art on these bronze figures.

“In the copper-plate grant preserved in the Leyden
University Museum it is recorded that the king Rajaraja Chola
I, the father of Rajendra Chola I, in the 21st year of his reign
(A.D. 1005) granted a village to the Cadamani-varma-vihara
or Cidamanipadma-vihéra at Nagapattana (Negapatam)

| built by Sri Maravijayottumgavarman, son of Cadamani-

varman of the Sailendra dynasty, king of Kataha and Sri-
vishaya.""? The remains of this Buddhist temple were seen

— by Sir Charles Elliot as late as 1846. Recently a horde of
bronze Buddha images, several bearing inscriptions in Tamil
characters of the 12th or 13th century, have been recovered
from this place.? In view of the intimate political and cul-
tural contact between the Cholas and Sailendras lasting for
generations, it is very tempting to relate the Negapatam
bronzes with the Sumatran finds. But the Negapatam
images are of decidedly conventional and decadent type and
cannot possibly have any connection with the earlier bronzes
of Srivijaya.

Architectural remains worthy of notice have not yet
been discovered in Sumatra. But we cannot refrain from
takinge passing notice of the controversy which is still raging
round the grandest achievement of Sailendra art in Java

1B. R. Chatterige, op. cit., p. 59.
2. ARASI,, 1927-28, p. 151.
3 Ibid, pl. XXXVI, figs. 1-3.

Google
PLATE IL

oisneesty Google

Bronze ii

Fig. 4.

Fig,

Driginal from

UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

(To face page 36)

Original from

Digitized by Google UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
EARLY ART OF SRIVIJAYA aT

viz., Borobudur. Dr. van Stein Callenfells is reported to
have stated in a lecture delivered before the India Society of
London that, “‘the one non-Javanese temple in Java was Boro-
budur. Chandi Borobudur not built in the Indian
style," while a contrary opinion is expressed by Lieut.
Colonel van Erp according to whom “‘the monument, though
a Javanese development of the idea of a stipa, must be
regarded, as far as the architecture” is concerned, as a pure
representative of the Indian stipa of the later period.”*
Now regarding Dr. Callenfells’ contention, we all admit that
the Hindu temples of the Dieng plateau, which are the
earliest monuments in ‘Java, do not seem to follow directly
any known Indian prototype, though they must be associated
with the earliest period of Hindu settlement‘ and their
superficial resemblance to the Seven Rathas of Mamalla-
puram (built by the Pallava king Mahendravarman in the
7th century), is undeniable. Mr, O. C. Gangoly is of opinion’
that they probably represent types formerly represented in
wood, but he has also shown by comparing the elevation of
a typical South Indian Vimana with that of Chandi Arjuna
that there is an obvious ity in the lower parts below
the pinnacle, the tower being divided in stages very much like
South Indian temples. Again, the earliest dated inscription
in Sanskrit Pallava-grantha character relating to king Safijaya
discovered in Janggal (732 A.D:) records
iva temple in Java was erected by a Brahman
clan of the Agastya gotra and that the model of the temple
was derived from a Saiva temple in Kunjara Kunja (Kona)

1 Indian Arts and Letters, vol. VII, No. 1, pp. 4-15.

2. T have already tried to show that the Buddha images of Borobudur
are modelled upan the Orissan Buddhas from Ratnagiri, etc. (Modern
Review, Nov. 1933, pp. 500-504).

3. Ann, Bib. Ind, Arch., 1931, p. 34.

4 It is believed that “in the Dieng plateau lived the last of the
Hindu families descended from the firt Hindus who visited and colonised
Java.” (D. M, Campbell Java Past and Present, London, 1915).

5 0. C. Gangoly, The Art of Java, Caleatia, p. 16; Sgs., 3, 4,

Google
38 DEVAPRASAD GHOSH

deéa, a sacred site in Southern India on the banks of the
Tungabhadra.*

In the latter part of the eighth century, South Indian
influence and Saivism was overshadowed by Northern Indian
and Mahayana Buddhism in Indonesia, through the agency
of the Sailendras, who were perhaps related to the Sailod-
bhavas of Kalinga who migrated to the Malay Peninsula in
the eighth century. Borobudur is not only built in the
Indian style, but has a remote resemblance to the newly
discovered Paharpur and Mahasthan temples in Bengal. In
groundplan and elevation, it is however, Chandi Sewa (9th
century)? which bears striking affinity to Paharpur with its
quadrangle surrounded by cells, ite receding terraces, re-
entrant angles, four cardinal ante-chambers, circumbulatory
passages and walls decorated with running friezes of terra-
cotta figures.‘ The Bengal type of temple architecture of
the Pala period, was probably transported to Java via Burma
as is clearly indicated by the structural plan and elevation
of the ancient Burmese Stipas.

1 Ibid, p. 4.
2. R.D. Banerjee, History of Orissz, Calcutta, 1930, vol. I, p. 131
3. Gangoly, op. cit, fg. 11.

4 ARASI., 1927-28, pls, XIL-XV, XLV,

Google
An Old-Javanese Inscription from Ngabean
of the Saka year 801
By Himansu Bhusan Serkar

Of the many kawi-inscriptions of Java, which have not
yet been translated into any language, the present copper-
plate which was discovered in Ngabean in the Magelang
Division of Kedu is one The size of this plate is approxi-
mately 14'17”x885". Since the year 1892, it has been
lying in the Museum at Batavia, where it is numbered
E. 6. In the Notulen for 1892 pp. 23 f, Dr. Brandes took a
passing notice of this as well as of some other contemporary
records. This record has also been transcribed in Brandes-
Krom, Oudjavaansche Oorkonden, where it occupies the
\2th number. I now edit the text from this transcription
and add an original translation and diacritical marke,

TEXT

a. |. swasti éakawargatita 801 éravanamasa_tithi
paficami éuklapakea, wurukung, Umanis, Soma,
wara tatkala ajfia Sri maha

rake kayuwangi, tumurun i rakarayan kag-

nap hino watu thang bawang éirkan umanugra-
hakna ikanang tgal i kwa

3. k watak wka, ganagana tampah 5 sinusuk gawa-

yan sawah maparaha éimanikanang prisida i
kwak dham rakarayan wka pu ca

4. tura, buatthajyanya mangraga kamwang ing pas-

tika, akan bisuwa caitrsujji, ujar haji kinon raka-
rayin wka, mangaséa

5. kna pasétk pasék yathanyan mapagehha i dla-

haningdlaha, rake hino pu aku, rake watu ti-
hang pu agra, samgat bawang pu pa

6. rtha, rake sirikan pu purungul, kapua inangséan

Google
40

10.

12.

13.

16.

17.

aA

HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

mas su | wdihan kelyaga yu | sowang sowang
halaran pu dempangkara

panggil hyang pittarasangga, dalinan pu acung,
manghuri pu kiti, pangkur pu gawa, tawan pu
rafjan tirip pu agra pinda, wadihati pu

mani, makudur pu mnang, kapua inangséan
mas ma 8 wdihan bira yu 1 sowang sowang,
tuhan ri wadihati u miramirah mangra

kappi halaran tuhan i makudur wangun sugih,
kapua wineh mas ma 5 wdihan ragi yu | sowang
sowang wanghuta hyang lu

paku manupuk sang halaran anak wanua i tal
warani watak haméas, i makudur, sang rawug-
wug anagwanua i hinpu

watak péar wineh mas ma 5 wdihan ragi yu |
sowang sowang, patih airbuwung rikang kala si
haris rama ni nita patih kelya

n si parama rama ni gesti, kapua wineh mas ma
5 wdihan ragi yu 1 sowang sowang, parujarning
patih airbuwung si maja rama ni warju

k, wahutanya si hali, parujarning patih kalyan si
layar rama ni hidéh, wariganya si ayuddha rama
ni nidhi, kapua wineh ma

8 wdihan ragi yu | sowang eowang, wahuta
putat si landu ramani kayém, si ranggal rama ni
pélém, kapu wineh mas ma 5 wdi

han ragi yu | sowang sowang, pitungtung pu
sumwara rama ni hamwingmatulak si mangher
rama ni santul, kapua wineh mas ma | wdihan
ragi yu I, sowang sowang, anung rama magman
i kwak rikang kala kalang 2 si puli rama ni
sukam, si hanéng rarna ni pawém, gusti 2 hi hli
rama ni si taru rama ni puluk, tuha banua 2 si
cara rama ni guwar, si kahuripan rama ni hangi
winkas si rawan rama ni

Kapua wineh mas ma 2 wdihan ragi yu | sowang
sowang, wariga santaiy parujar 2 si guse rama
ni gaja, ei jala rama ni angkatan,

Google
10.

13.

AN OLD-JAVANESE INSCRIPTION a

hulu kun si mandit rama ni wadwan, tuhalas si
luat, rama nj palana, hungler si brati rama ni
pahal kapua wineh mas ma | wdi

han ragi yu |, sowang sowang, marhyang i kawi-
kwan si lanah si bharyya, rewatém(?) tuha
padahi si dhanam, marégang si éukla mangla si
buddha, maga (2)

si kundi, mawuai si pawan kapua wineh mas
ma | wdihan ragi yu | sowang sowang, rama tpi
siring rikang kala, kalang ri waharu si warju ra
mani tahun, i halang manuk kalang si éila rama
ni guday, i tiga wangi kalang si wadwa, gusti si
kamwar rama ni éristi, j malafjang gusti si
bharata

rama nj taytra i hiwas si pafica rama ni padang,
kring pu bhagya, mangilala paranakan, si ra-
kinam si carik, kapua wineh mas ma | wdihan
ragi yu | sowang sowang, saji ni manguyut mas
mé 5 wdihan yu 2 wulang hulu sang makudur
wdihan yu | saji sang hyang watu kulu
mpang mas ma 5 wdihan yu 5 bras pada | wsi
ikat 10, haluhalu 5 wtinya ikat 5 wadung | rim-
was |, taratarah | tampila

n I kris | tatah | landak | linggis 5 dang | taray
1 padamaran | muang caru tulung tawur satthi-
karaja sakima sa

mua kumol wdus hayam hantrini, i sampunnya
mangkana manadah sangwahuta hyang kudur
muang patih wahutu, muang rama tpi si

ring muang rama i kwak rarai matuha manuam
kabeh, i sampuning manadah mangdiridiri sang
kudur manapate manawurakan hawu, manambah
ikanang patih wahuta muang rama tpi siring
muang rama i kwak muwabh i ronyanahan cihnan-
yan sampun mapagth ikanang tgal i kwak
sinusuk gawayan sawah éimanikanang prasada i
kwak, kunang sing umulahulah ikeng sima sal-
wirning sangedra pangguhanya eka pi

Google
42 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

14. ndabyayaning manima mas su ka I su I] mas ma
5 mas ku 3]lo|]

TRANSLATION

a. 1. Hail! The Saka year past 801, the month of
Sravana, the fifth day of the bright half of the
month, Wurukung (day of the six-day week),
Umanis (day of the five-day week), Monday.
That is the time when the ordere of H. M. the
great king rake Kayuwangi

2. were communicated to rakarayan Kagénap hino
watu tihang bawang firikan about the favour
(that) the tégal (ground) at kéwak

3. watak wéka, in all 5 Tampah’s,! shall be marked
off to be made « sawah’ (field), which is fixed (?)
as a free region for the temple’ at Kéwak dham.
The rakarayaén weka pu catura

4. made the king's constructions the embodied
beauty (lit. ‘flower’) of Pastika, Akan-Bisuwa,
Caitrasuji! The royal word was sent to the
rakarayan®

5. Weka about giving different sums, as have been
fixed, for the furthest future. The rake Hino pu’
Aku, the rake Watu tihang pu Agra, the
samégat Bawang pu Partha,

1 A kind of measurement.

2. This term frequently occurs in inscriptions. Elsewhere Kern has
translated this word by ‘acre’.

3. Read here ‘Prasida’.

4° As in other cases, the names offer some difficulties. It is difficult
to say whether Aken and Caitra are names of persons or villages. 1
have taken them to be names of villages. If they refer to names of per-
sons, they should go together with the following passive construction and
‘ujar haji, in that case, would be a proper name, which does not appear
probable.

5 Roke, rakrayan, rakarayan, etc., are high official titles.

6 Pu or Mpu is equivalent to Eng. used before names of
persons without rank or title. (Kern, V, G., VIII, p. 1646). It is alto
used before names of weapons.

Google
AN OLD-JAVANESE INSCRIPTION “3

6. the rake Sirikan pu Purungul, all were given gold
ma suvarna, red-coloured cloth |
pair’ each; the halaran pu Dempangkara (=Dipa-
fikara)?

7. panggil, the Rev. Uttara and Asangga (=Asafga)’
the dalinan? pu Acung, the manghuri* pu kiti,
the pangkur? pu gawa, the tawdn’ pu Rajijan,
the tirip* pu Agra Pinda, the wadihati’ pu

8. Mani, the makudur* pu Menang, all were given
gold 8 ma, blue* cloth | pair each; the tuhan'®
of Wadihati (namely?) Umiramirah" Mangra

9. kappi, the halaren tuhdn of makudur Wangun
sugih, all were given gold 5 ma, ragi- (a pattern)
cloth | pair each; the Wanghuta’* holy

10, Lupaku manupuk, the worthy halaran, native
of Tal waranj watak haméas, with (2) makudur,
the worthy Rawugwug, native '? of Hinpu

Il. Watak Pear, were given gold 5 md ragi-cloth |
pair each; the Patih'* Airbuwung at Kala, Haris,
(who is) the Elder" of Nita, the Patih Kalyan.

1 Dr. Poerbatijaraka, in his translation of the Péréng inscription in
Agastya in den Archipel, has rendered yu by a word whose English
‘equivalent should be ‘set’. The word is an abbreviation of yuga.

2 These are official titles.

3 The names are interesting.

4 This is» high official title. A detailed note on this term is given
by Berg in his Middeljaveansche Historische Traditie, pp. 19.

5 Collector of taxes? 6 Collector of taxes.

7 Village-messenger? 8 Official title of the priest.

9 The text has bird, which is not known to me. Birs: means ‘blue’.
In old-Javanese there is no sharp distinction between @ and 4.

10. It may mean ‘head, chief, guide’, ete. What is intended here is
difficult to say.

11 From the prefix um, it appears to be a verb. But on the analogy
of the foregoing and following words, | take it to be a proper name.

12 Its meaning is not known to me. It is apparently a title.

13 Here stands ‘Anagwanue. In the preceding line, its variation is
spelt as enck wansea.

14 Commander.

15 The exact function of wahute (later Buyut) and Rama are not

Google
44

known.

HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

12, Parama, (who is) the Elder of Gesti, all were

given gold 5 md, ragi-cloth | pair each the
parujer' of Patih Airbuwung, namely Maja (who
is) the Elder of Warjuk,

13. his wahuta, namely, Hali, the parujar of Patih

Kalyan, namely Layar, (who is) the Elder of
Hidéh, his wariga,? namely, Ayuddha (who is)
the Elder of Nidhi, all were given gold

14. 2 ma, ragi-cloth | pair each; the wahuta pu tat,”

Landu (who is) the Elder of Kayém, Ranggal
(who is) the Elder of Pélém, all were given gold
5 ma, ragi-cloth |

15. pair each; the pitungtung* pu Sumwara (who is)

the Elder of Hamwingmatulak, Mangher (who is)
the Elder of Santul, all were given gold | ma,
ragi-cloth

16. 1 pair each; the Elder (rama) Magman at Kewak,

of Kala, the two Kalange* namely, Pulu (who
is) the Elder of Sukam, hanéng (who is) the Elder
of Pawém, the two Vaityas (gust),

namely, Heli

17, the Elder of Taru (who is) the Elder of Puluk,

the two village-chiefs, namely, Cara (who is) the
Elder of Guwar, Kahuripan (who is) the Elder
of Hangu, the clerk* Rawan (who is) the Elder of

1... . all were given gold 2 ma, ragi-cloth | pair
each; the wariga Santaiy,’ the two parujars,
namely, Guse (who is) the Elder of Gaja and
Jala (who is) the Elder of Angkatan,

I have generally translated them by ‘Elder’ or ‘village-head’.

Tahan also falls into the same category.

1 His exact function is not known.
2 Title of an unknown officer.
3 Wahata pu tat may together form the official title of Landu. Such

title I have not come across.

4, Apparently an official title.
5 Te may refer to an officer or a carpenter. Probably the former is

intended here.

6 Winkes=

iekas, 7 Such spellings are not common in kawi,

Google
AN OLD-JAVANESE INSCRIPTION 45

the hulu kuwn' namely, Mandit (who is) the

Elder of Wadwan, the tuhalas* namely Luat

(who is) the Elder of Palana, the hungler’ Brati

(who is) the Elder of Pahal, all were given gold

| ma, ragi-cloth

3. 1 pair each, the temple-priest at Kawike-
wan, namely Lanah, Bharry& rewatém (2). the
principal gamelan-player* namely Dhanam, the
marégang* namely Sukla, the mangla' namely
Buddha, the maga (?)*

4. Kundi, the mawuai namely Pawan, all were
given gold | md, ragi-cloth | pair each; the chief
Tepi S'ring’ of Kala, the Kalang of Waharu,

5. namely Warju (who is) the Elder of Tahun, with
(2% Halang Manuk, the Kalang namely Sila
(who is) the Elder of Guday, with Tiga Wangi
the Kaleng namely Wad the Vaiéya (gusti)
namely Kamwar (who is) the Elder of Sristi,
with Malafijang, the Vaidya (gusti) namely
Bharata

6. the Elder of Taytra. with Hiwas, Paiica (who is)
the Elder of Padang, the Kring’ pu Bhagya, the
collector Paranakan, Rakinam, Carik, all were
given gold | md. ragi-

7. cloth | pair each; tributes for manguyut"® are

gold 5 ma, cloth 2 pairs, (tributes for) Wulang

hulu (who is) the worthy makudur are | pair
cloth; tributes for the god Watukulumpang are

sé

1 An official title, whose significance is not known to me.

2 Superintendent of the forest?

3 These are queries of Dr. Brandes, 4 Taha padahi.

5 A player with = sort of musical instrument.

6 Water-cartier? 7 The phrase lit, means ‘neighbours’.

8 It is not clear if the following words are names of persons or
villages.

9 Certain classes of marke? Cf. Gedangan Inscription of 782 Sake,
PL V, & in Kern, V. G. VII, p. 35.

10 The word literally means ‘aversion’. This sense is not applicable
here, Can it mean “for averting qil spirits’? Therp is « hewi-word

Google
6 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

8. gold 5 ma, cloth 5 pairs, bras pada |, wesi
ikat 10, halu-halu 5, wetinya ikat,‘ hatchet |,
plane I, mattock (?) 1, pick-axe (?) I,

9. krie! |, chisel 1, landak 1, linggis 5, cooking-pot
|, taray 1, padameran 1. Further, offerings
meant for sacrifice by the virtuous king, (who
was) with desires and fascination,”

10. included goat, fowl, egg; at the end of which
(offering), such were eaten by the worthy
wehutu, the Rev. Kudur, and the patih Wahutu,
and older neighbours

Il. and the head of kewak, lads, the old, the young,
all! At the end of eating, rose up the Rev.
Kudur cursed (and) scattered’ ashes; respect-
fully testified.

12. this the Patih wahuta and older neighbours and
the head of kewak. Further, with two of such
marks (of ashes) fully fixed,‘ this ground (tegal)
is

13, marked off to become a field (sawah), (which is)
the free region of the temple at Kewak. If any
‘one violates this free region, may ell sorrows go
with him (even) to the nether-world.

14. The total expenses for making the free dessa are
gold su.* | ka* Il gold, 5 ma, 3 ku.’

Manguys, meaning ‘ascetics’, From the association of the following words,
the term may be accepted in that sense, though we cannot explain the
comission of t.

1 A kind of Javanese dagger.

2 The text has samua=sa muna, s« moha. I take the root to be the
Skr. Moha.

3 Manewaraken=Ma sawur aken(=cksn).

4 Another interpretation is possible, viz, “Further, on leaves also
such marks (of ashes) being fully fixed. The dificulty lies with
the word ronye, of which the o may be the equivalent of wa. If 20,
rwanya yields the meaning ‘accepted’ in my translation, Again, if we
take the word to be ron ye, then the meaning becomes ‘leaves also’.

5. Abbreviation of savama.

6 Abbreviation of kare. 1 korya=16 mis.

7 Abbreviation of kopang. | kupang=1/6 mas,

Google
MISCELLANY

Depung—The Monastic University of Tibet
By Pandit Vidhusekhara- Sastri

In Sanskrit there is a word kulapati. It means ‘the head
of a family.’ But it has a special signification. One who
teaches ten thousand students maintaining them with food,
ete., is called a kulapati.' To teach so many students free
of charge after accommodating them in one place may
sound very strange, but it is a fact, as we know from the
authentic instance of the ancient University of Nalanda,
where provision was made for the residence and teaching of
not less than ten thousand students. Such a University is
still in existence in Tibet, the country that owes much to
India for its religion and civilization.

There are numerous monasteries in Tibet established
mostly in imitation of those in India. As the biggest of
them all the following four deserve special mention :—

(1) Depung* (bras spuria), Dhanyakutaka;*

(2) Sera (se ra‘), ‘Wild Rose’;

(3) Tashi lhun po (Bkra Sis Ihun po), Mangalakita;

(4) Gaden® (Dga’ Idan), Tugita.

1 Maninam dasaathasram yo ‘nnadénadipalenat/

‘edhySpayati viprargih sa vai kulapatih emrtah//

2 Some pronounce Dapiing.

3 The Sanskrit equivalent of the Tibetan word Depung (‘bres
‘spuis) is written differently by different writers, such as Dhanekocheks,
Dhenaketaka, Dhanyakeiake, etc. See Watters, On Yuan Chuang,
vol. II, pp. 214-16. These variations are undoubtedly due to the Chinese
tranditeration of the placename, which is J'@.nakache-ka. The
Tibetan name compared with the Chinese transliteration suggests the
Sanskrit equivalent to be nothing but Dhgnyakutake, the fret word of
the Tibetan name ‘bras meaning here dhinga ‘paddy’ (the word means
also ‘rice’), and the second spas kala or katake “heap.” Kejake has
nothing to do here.

4 Sometimes written as ser ba meaning ila ‘hail’,

3. Sometimes pronounced a» Géaden.

Google
48 VIDHUSHEKHARA SASTRI

Depung was founded in 1415 A.D. by Jam yang cho rje
(‘jam dbyans chos rie) or Maiijughoga, Dharmasvamin; Sera
in 1418 A.D. by Cam chen cho rje (Byems chen chos rje),
or Mahamaitreya Dharmasvamin; Tashi Ihun po about the
same time by Gedun dup pa (Dge gdun grub pa), or Setigha-
siddhi; and Gaden in 1408 A.D. by Je tsong kha’ pa lo zang
dag pa (Rrje tson kha pa blo bzan grags pa), or Svamin

The foremost of all these monasteries is Depung with
which we are concerned here. While Gaden can accom-
modate 3,300 monks or students, Tashi hun po 4,880, and
Sera 5,500, Depung has accommodation for 10,000, the
present number being 7,700.

Depung was founded after the model of the ancient
monastery of Depung in Southern India (i.e., Andhradeéa')
and hence it was called by this name.

Sarat Chandra Das writes ASB., 1905, N.S., Vol. I, p.
115) about Depung that here the founder “established eight
colleges for teaching the different branches of sacred and
secular learning. In course of time the monastery became
the principal seat of learning, and learned and wise men
flocked to it from the different parts of the country. In disci-
pline, moral culture, and purity of life, the monks of Depung
excelled the monks of all other similar institutions in Tibet.
It soon claimed a University with seven colleges for the
study of the different branches of sacred literature including
metaphysics, logic, medicine, and one for that of profane
literature for the benefit of the lay people.”

Towards the end of the year 1931 a young Lama (Bla
ma) ‘Guru’ came from Mongolia to our Viévabharat.
He was called Ge she Thub ten she rab. (Fig. |). Thup ten she
rap (Thub bstan Ses rab) was his actual name. In Sanskrit
it is Munigdsanaprajfia. And Ge she (Dge bées) which in
Sanskrit is Kalyanamitra was the degree conferred upon him
by the University of Depung. He was a perfect gentleman
and he endeared himself to all with whom he came in
contact. He was really a profound scholar and # master of

1. For the location of Depung sce Watters, On Yuan Chwong,
Vol. I, p. 216.

Google
oases» Google

Original from

UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
Ge she Thub ten she rab

pamitra Munisisanaprajia

Fig. 2. Depuny, the Monastic Cniversity of

AGS. January, 1955

sisiiesty Google
DEPUNG—THE MONASTIC UNIVERSITY OF TIBET 49

both the Kanjur and the Tanjur. He could easily quot,
and explain passages from any part of such difficult texts as
the Abhisamaydlankarakarika in their Tibetan versions.

Coming from Mongolia to Tibet he joined the Univer-
sity of Depung which is only within four miles from Lhasa
(=Lha sa meaning in Sanskrit Devabhiimi). He lived there
asa student for more than twenty years, and won the
highest degree of Ge she or Kalydnamitra. In the Viéva-
bharati he joined the Vidyabhavana which is meant for
higher and post-graduate studies and research work, study-
ing Pali and Senakrit. He had a special mission. In Tibet
nobody knows, as he said, anything of Pali Buddhism, and
he wanted to introduce it into that country. With this
object in view he translated into Tibetan jointly with the
Present writer the main contents of the Pali Tripitaka, he
himself playing the réle of a Lotsaba, i.e., ‘a Tibetan tran-
slator of Senskrit works,” and the present writer that of a
Pap, i.e., ‘an Indian Pan

He kindly gave me a photograph of his Univer-
sity and that is reproduced here. (Fig. 2). It shows only one
half of the institution, as he told me. Yet one can
understand from it how big it is. It is situated at the
foot of a hill. With its numerous buildings it looks like
a small town. It is divided into four sections in the
middle of which there is a very big hall of congregation,
called Dug khang chen po (‘dug khan chen po), Mahdsana-
6ala. According to Sarat Chandra Das, it “contains 240
wooden pillars distributed over an area of 34,560 sq. ft.”
Here all teachers and students assemble to perform religious
vervices.

As the Ge she said, the mode of teaching followed there
is the same as in our Sanskrit Pathasalés or Tols as they are
called in’ Bengal. Students are very much encouraged to

1 As a rule Sanskrit works were translated into Tibetan jointly by
an Indian and a Tibetan scholar. The Tibetan word Lopan is used to
mean both of them together, Lo being for Loteaba and pan for a
Papdite.

7

Google
$0 VIDHUSHEKHARA SASTRI

discuss matters with one another, as is the case with

Sanskrit students in our country.
The Ge she talked to us of his University, and Mr. Sujit

Kumar Mukhopadhyaya who was then working with me as a
student of the Vidyabhavana took down some notes. I am
glad to utilise some of them here.

Students are accommodated in single-seated rooms.
They come from different countries and live in different
wards meant for different nationalities.

There are some restrictions regarding admission. No
non-Buddhist is allowed to be admitted. Buddhists secking
admission are required to be monks or novices under train-
ing. Students of low origin, such as fishermen, ferrymen,
smiths and butchers, though Buddhists, are not allowed.

Students are, to pay nothing for their boarding, lodging,
tuition. all the expenses being met by the State.

Students of tender ages (6-12) are kept privately in
charge of monks who instruct them. After two or three
years of instruction they are placed before great Lamas for
examination, and, if successful, they are made Sramaneras
‘novices’ and admitted into the monastery.

There are four Diploma or Degree Examinations for
which candidates are to study for four years, or seven
years, or twelve years, or twenty years. The highest Degree
Examination is conducted in the famous Cho khang (Chos
kha) ‘Dharmamandira’ of Lhasa before a Board of
Examiners representing Depung and the other three big
monasteries already mentioned.

Google
Two Notes on The Cultural Contact
between Java and Bengal

By Himansu Bhusan Sarkar

(A) The name-probiem of Barabudur

The name of Barabudur has taxed the ingenuity of
scholars from the time of Raffles onwards, Dr. Krom’
points out that the name appears for the first time exactly
in ite modern form in a report of the Babad Tanah Djawi
which has to be dated in 1709 or 1710 A.D. Though different
parte of the name of Barabudur or their corrupted forms
can be traced in the Kawi-language of Java, the full name
signifying a complex temple of the type of Barabudur is
wholly unknown to the literature of ancient times. For the
sake of convenience, we shall divide the name into two
parts, viz., Bara and Budur. Beginning with the first com-
Ponent part, we notice that Dr. Krom,? like Crawfurd,
rightly objects to the conjecture of Raffles that it was derived
from the name of the district known as Boro or Bara. In-
deed it appears from similar cases elsewhere, that the
district derived its name from the temple and not vice
versa. Crawfurd could not suggest any plausible explana-
tion and, though he took Boro in the sense of a fish-trap,
regarding the full name he could not come to any positive
conclusion. In the dictionary of Dr. Juynboll,’ we find the
word Braha in the sense of ‘important’ or ‘difficult,’ but there
is no mention of Bhara. Dr. Krom‘ indeed says, that Bhara
or Bhara may mean ‘numerous, many.’ Admitting that the
transition from Bhara or Bhara or to Bara is phonetically
tenable,’ the latter portion of the name would still

1 Barabuder, vol. I, p. 3. 2 Ibid., pp. 44.

3 Oudjaveansch-Nederlandsche woordenlijst, p. 416.

4 op. cit, p. 6

5 In Old-Javanese, there is no sharp distinction between a and d, as
in Sanskrit. ‘The change from 6h to b may also be maintained. We

Google
52 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

present difficulties. The suggestion of Dr. Poerbatijaraka
that the word Bara is derived from the word Vihdra
ig open to the objection stated by Dr. Krom that
“Barabudur is certainly not a Vihdra in the Old-Javanese
sense and we wonder why the word Vihdra which,
though used in Sumatra and Java is obsolete, should only be
used in this one instance”. Besides, there are more difficul-
ties in explaining the transition from Vihara or Biaro to
Bara than from Bhara or Bhdra to Bara. The other possi-
bilities are that the word Bara is the same as Para, or a
word that became B(h)ra in later Javanese. We think,
however, that when Bara itself can be maintained as being
equal to ‘excellent’ ‘highest,’ there is no reason why we
should suggest some other word.

‘The crucial point of the present discussion is the word
Budur. A majority of scholars have derived the name from
Buddha the Saviour, or Bud(dh)a meaning ‘old’. The first
suggestion is open to the objection that it makes no provi-
sion for the particle r in Budur. Besides it has been noted
that in the region where Barabudur stands, the name of
Buddha is pronounced correctly. The other explanation is
even less satisfactory, for as Dr. Krom says, Bud(dhja
meaning ‘old’ is no kawi, but only a modern Javanese word
to describe pre-Islamic things. Krom himeelf after stating
his opinion that “‘all efforts to interpret Barabudur are vain,”
offers a sugestion’ that Dharmapura might be the old name
of the stipa. His grounds are two. Firstly, he thinks that
we have before us not the name but one of its names, for
it is most probable that the monument at the same time had
a name in Sanskrit. Secondly, Old-Javanese foundation
records often give names of places near the sanctuary, and
in some records from Magelang in the neighbourhood of
Barabudur, we get the name of Dharmapura. Some of these
records are dated at a time when Berabudur undoubtedly
existed. There is no improbability in these suggestions, but
should not, however, expect Sanskrit terme to have been always exactly
pronounced in Java.

T op. cit, p. 7.
JAVA AND BENGAL 8

‘we shal] directly concern ourselves with Barabudur, which
‘we suppoee to be the corrupted form of Baravajra. In kawi-
works, the word vgjra has frequently been spelt as bajra
without any change of meaning. According to the rules of
Phonetics, we can derive vajar from vajra, but never badar
or vader from vajra. In Pali, the corresponding form
should be vajja. Phonology, therefore, does not support,
in the present state of our knowledge, a transition from vajra
to badar or vadar. On the other hand, vadar, is used even
now by the Bengali people as a corrupted form of vajra.
In popular dialects, vadar or badar may easily be transform-
ed into burdor, badar, vadar, etc. To this has to be added
the proof from the architecture of Barabudur itself so far as
the successive receding terraces with rerentrant corners are
concemed. At Pahadpur we have probably an example
of the initial process of Barabudur architecture. As for the
old Javanese temple which reminded Fergusson’ of the
cells of Mamallapuram, we have extant examples of their
Prototypes in replicas over Bengali sculptures. It is note-
worthy that successive receding terraces’ with re-entrant
comere are nowhere to be found except in Bengal and
Java. It is true that we have nothing in Bengal comparable
to the perforated dagobas of Barabudur, but that may be
‘due to the ravages of climate and the vandalism of early
Muslim conquerors. It is even possible that the above
variation is due to the creative genius of Javanese artists,
who were probably trained at Nalanda. At any rate there
are reasons to believe that the architecture of Barabudur
bears the stamp of Bengali influence. When studied along
with other evidences about the cultural contact of Java
and Bengal in the Pala-Sailendra period of Indo-Javanese
history, our observations will not appear improbable. To
sum up, if the name of Barabudur is not accepted as a con-
tribution of the Bengali Buddhists, let it be admitted that
the term vadar or budur is possible as a corrupted form of

1 History of Indian and Eastern Architecture, vol. II, 1910, p. 425.
2 Successive receding torraces without re-entrant comers are known
in Further India a» well as in Bengel.

Google
54 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR:

vajra. The whole word should then mean ‘the highest or
the excellent vajra,’ which is quite in accord with the per-
vading spirit of the august structure, now. covering almost
the same area as the great pyramid of Gizeh.

(B) The palacography of Java and Bengal

It is sometimes held’ that the medial forms of the vowel
€ and 0, as used in Bengali, being in sharp contrast to the
‘western variety of the Nagari script, are to be considered as
distinct Bengali types and that their occurrence in the epi-
graphy of Greater India betrays the influence of Bengal.
The Bengali medial of the vowel ¢ is placed to the left of the
consonant in the form of a curve and when an additional
horizontal bar is placed to the right, it becomes an example
of the Bengali medial o. In Nagari, on the other hand,
the medial e is placed on the top of the mairkd to the right
side of the consonant. The lower hook of this medial when
continued downwards to the right side forms the medial
of the Nagari o.

On an examination of the epigraphy of Souther India,
however, we find that the so-called Bengali medials, viz.,
e and o, were prevalent there long before they penetrated
into the inscriptions of Bengal. Thus, in the Kopparam
plate of Pulakesin Il, plate (i), dated 631 A.D. the medials
are as in the so-called eastern variety of the Nagari type.
In the inscriptions on the Dharmaraja Ratha at Mahavali-
puram,’ which have to be dated in the first half of the 7th
century A.D., the characteristics are the same. Coming to
the inscriptions of Java, Cambodia and Campa, the earliest
examples of such forms in Java are found in the Dinaja
inscription of 760 A.D.‘ To take some instances, we have
Krenadbhutopalam in the third line, Sakabde in the fourth
line, margasirge ca mdse adrarthe Sukravare in the fifth

1 Cf, Bijan Raj Chatterji, Indian Cultural Influences in Cambodia,
p. 128.

2 Ep., Ind., vol. XVIII, Pl. facing p. 259.
3 Ibid., vol. X, Nos. 5, 9 13, ete., Pl. facing p. 6.

4 Brandes—Krom, Oudjaveansche Oorkonden, Pl. 1,

Google
JAVA AND BENGAL 66

line. In Campa, the Vo-chanh Rock inscription,’ c. 200
A.D., does not present the above forms, nor does the Hon-
‘cuc inscription of c. 500 A.D.? The same is the case with
the Myson stelae inscription of Bhadravarman.* The first
example of the so-called Bengali medials, is furnished by
the Duong-Mong pedestal inscription of Prakaéadharma,
ruler of Campa.‘ (c. 655-690 A.D..). The words Vigno
and Purugottamasya, amongst others, occurring in the first
line, are illustrations of this. The same is the case with
the Tra-kiéu inscription of the same king.’ It is clear that
these medial forme became current in Campin epigraphy
at least from the time of the king Prakaéadharma. In Cam-
bodia the earliest example of the above forms, is found in
the Thma Kre inscription of the king Bhavavarman II, bearing
the date 561 Saka (=639 A.D.).* Reference may be made
to ganite Sakapade, jhapodaye, candre, etc., in the third
line, Krme, divaso, etc., in the fourth line, and matro,
muktaye, etc., in the fifth line. It is noteworthy that all
these inscriptions are of the pre-Pala period, when no such
forms were current in Bengal. Generally speaking, these
forms were not prevalent in North Indian epigraphy before
the eighth century A.D., but in Greater India and in Southern
India they were established in the beginning of the 7th
century A.D. We are of opinion that these penetrated into
the epigraphy of Northem India, Java, Campa and Cam-
bodia from Southern India, thus furnishing fresh proofs of
the influence of Southern India on the culture of her colonies
in the Far-East. We can also bring an additional proof to
bear upon our conclusion. It is well-known that the medial
form of i in the North Indian epigraphy is placed to the
left of the consonant, forming a right angle with the matrka,
over which a curve is placed with hollow inside. This

1 BEF.E.O., t. XV, No. 2, p. 5.

2 Ibid., t. I, p. 187.

3. Ibid., Pl. facing p. 187 (cf. Ul. 1, 3, 9 and 10).
4 Ibid., t. XI, p. 262.

5 Ibid., p. 263 (ef. U. 1, 2.

6 Ibid., t. IV, p. 691.

Google
56 HIMANSU BHUSAN 6ARKAR

form is in sharp contrast to the South Indian medial, which
forms something like a loop over the consonant. The latter
form became widely current in the epigraphy of Java,
Campa and Cambodia. To support our conclusion the
Nidagundi inscription of Amoghavare I' and the Pikira
grant of Simhavarman,’ amongst many others, may be com-
pared with the Po-Nagar stelae of Campa, dated 706 Saka
(=784 A.D.),* the Yang Tikuh stelae inscription of Campa,
dated 721 Saka (=799 A.D.),* the Glai Lomov inscription of
723 Saka (=801 A.D.),° the Po-Nagar temple inscription of
739 Saka (=817 A. etc. Many such examples can be
cited. The loop-type medial of i is also met with in the
kawi-inscriptions of J For this reference may be made
to Cohen Stuart's kawi-Oorkonden, Plate I, inscription I,
dated 841 Saka (=919 A.D.), Pale 1A, inscription IV, dated
1316 Saka (=1394 A.D.), the Dinaja inscription of 682
Saka (=760 A.D.).’ Cambodian epigraphy also shows the
same influence. The conclusion is therefore irresistible that
these three medial forms, viz., e, o and i, penetrated into
Greater India from Southern India.

Before we close this discussion we should note an inter-
esting fact. In an inscription of Java, dated 1316 Saka
(=1394 A.D), the medial form of e has been curioudy
presented; it appears like a rounded form of the Asokan ja.*
It is thus different from its corresponding form in the earlier
kawt-epigraphy of Java. It can be explained in two ways,
either it was » natural evolution or it was the result of the
Joes of contact with India. The first possibility is ruled out
by the consideration that if Indian influence bad been of

1 Ep. Ind., vol. Vil.

2 Ind. Ant., vol. VIII, Pl. facing p. 160.

3. Notices et extraits des Manascrits de la Bibliothaque Nationale, etc.
tome vingt-eepti#me, ler partie, 2e fascicule Pl. 23, inecr. no. XXVI A.

4 Ibid., No. XXII A.

5 Ibid., Pl. 20, ine, no. XXVIII.

6 Ibid, Pl. 25, No. XXVIII.

7 Brandes-Krom, op. cit., Pl. I.

8 Vide Cohen Stuart, Kawi Oorkonden, Pl. I, inscription IV, Cf.
Wrahané, parasamé in line 1; gawé, yen*, ‘ngong, dénd in line 2, etc.

Google
INDIA AND JAVA 87

sufficient importance in the last decade of the 14th century
AD., the medial would not have assumed such a curious
form as almost to assume a new type. The second possi-
bility is countenanced by consideration of the general politi-
cal conditions of India and Java at that time. The evidence
coming from the side of art is equally conclusive on this
point. In the epoch of Prambanaén-Barabudur, Indian ideale
Prevail to a great extent; in the epoch of Panataran, native
styles are vigorously represented in the Ramayana-reliefs of
the latter temple. The Nagarakrtigama (839) no doubt
refers to Indian immigrants into Java, but the evidences of
art and palaeography are more conclusive. The references
to Bengal in the later romantic literature of Java, viz., the
Pafji romances, are but faint echoes of previous glory, and
hence we may leave them out of consideration. The evi-
dence of the above-mentioned chronicle may be placed in
1365 A.D., while the inscription mentioned above is placed
in 1394 A.D. When considered together, it appears that
Indian immigrants into Majapahit in 1365 were not sufficient
in numbers to leave pronounced influence after Hayam
‘Wuruk’s time.

Google
Select Contents of Oriental Journals

Bijdragen tot de Taal— Land— en Voikenkunde van Nedertandsoh-
Indié, Decl 90, Eerste Affevering, 1933.

A, J. BERNET KEMPERS.—The Bronzes of Nalanda and Hindu-
Jeoanese Art, pp. 1-88. After an exhaustive and pene-
trating study of the bronzes of Nalanda the author con-
cludes that, “while partly exhibiting a distinct resem-
blance to some bronzes from Java, they belong to Pala

J. Gonps.—Turmura’s en Cavara's, pp. 167-171. According
to data given in the Puranas and the Old-Javanese
Brahmapda Purina the Tum(b)urae were a part of the
Cavara’s and were probably a Munda people.

BG.

Ibid., Tweede en Derde Aflevering, 1933.
C. C, BERG.—De Ciwa-Hymne van de Arjunawiwaha, pp.

173-238. A close and comparative study of the Siva
hymns contained in the Arjunavivaha along with their
Balinese and late Javanese versions.

F. H. vAN NAERSSEN.—De Saptopapatti, pp. 239-258. The
author discusses the seven officers (saptopapatti) often
referred to in the Nagarakytagama and in this connection
gives a better reading and explanation of Nagarakrta-
gama 83, 2 than those given by Kern.

TH. van Erp.—Een Morkwaardige Garoeda-Voorstelling op
een Hindoe-Javaansche bronzen hangklok, pp. 259-265.
The author discusses the figure of Garuda on a bronze
hanging bell. The figure is very peculiar in several res-
pects.

W. F. SrurrerHeim.—Oudheidkundige aanteenkeningen, pp.
267-299. Among other things, in these antiquarian notes

Google
SELECT CONTENTS OF ORIENTAL JOURNALS. 58

the author describes a remarkable statue of the bull
Nandin with a dagger on its right side under the girdle.

H. H. Juynsout.—Vertaling van Sarga XXI van het Oud-
javaanache Raméyana, pp. 301-308. Translation of
Sarga XXI of Old Javanese Ramayana.

J. GonDa.—Agastyparawo, een Oud-Javaansch proza-ges-
chrift, pp. 329-419. Critical edition of the Old-Javanese
Prose text with glossary and index of proper names.

BG.
Tildeohrift_ voor Indisohe Tast— Land—en Volkenkunde,
1998, Decl LXXIII, Aflevering 2 en 8.

Ir, J. L. MoeNS.—Het Berlijnsche Ardhanari-beeld en de
bijzettingsbeelden van Kytanagara, pp. 123-150. The
Jina burial statue of Kytangara, described in Song 43:
6 of the Nagarakytagama must have been an Amo-
ghapase-Ardhanari with an Akgobhya in the head-dress
and not the “‘éivaistic’’ burial statute of Harihara-Ardha-
nari found by Stutterheim in the Ethnological Museum of
Berlin. It is very probable that the Vajrayanist Kyta-
nagara, called Sri Sivabuddha or Mahakgobhya, founded
a Saiva-Buddhistic pantheon in which a complete fusion
of the two elements took place.

K. C. Clucq.—Een relief in het Bataviaasch Museum, afkom-
stig van Tjondi Tigawangi, pp. 156-158. The Set-
cakra, a symbol which occurs op the Sudaréanacakra of
‘Vignu-temples, is to be found on a Javanese relief of the
year 1415 A.D.

W. F. Srurrerneim.—Naschrift op het art. van. Ir. J. L.
Moens, pp. 292-306. Criticism of the above article
of Moens.

BG.

Djawa, 19 Jaargang no. 4, Augustus 1993.

W. F. SrurterHeim.—ls Tjandi Baraboedér een Mandala?
pp. 233-237. After explaining what is meant by man-
dala the author concludes that the bese of Baraboedoer
may indeed be said to be of the form of a mandala, pro-

s00gle
60 SELECT CONTENTS OF ORIENTAL JOURNALS
vided it is borne in mind that there were purposes too
which determined its structure.

BG.

Bulletin de I" Ecole Francaise d’ Extreme-Orient, Tome XXXI, 1931

George Coedés Etudes Cambodgiennes, pp. 1-23.

The author deals here. with two Sanskrit inscriptions
from Fou-nan. Till now the inscriptions of Bhavavarman
I and Gitrasena Mahendravarman, the two conquerors of
Fou-nan, have been considered to be the earliest epigraphic
records of Cambodia, but M. Coedés proves mainly on
palaeographic grounds that these two inscriptions are still
older. The first and the earlier one commemorates the con-
secration of an image of the foot-prints of Vignu by the
‘king's son’ Gunavarman of the Kaundinya family, and the
second, beginning with a Buddhistic invocation, glorifies the
king Rudravarman who appointed the son of a Brahman as
the inspector of royal property. The inscription mentions
Jayavarman as the father of Rudravarman and M. Coedés
identifies him with the king of Fou-nan known from Chinese
sources to be reigning in 514 A.D.

F. D. K. Bosct.—Notes archéologiques, pp. 485-497.

(1) The ornamental motif of ‘the arch and the hind’
found both in Java and Campa is explained through Chinese
influence, though the earliest origin of the motif is to be
sought in India. (2) The Lingodbhavamarti of Siva shows
several peculiar features in Indo-China,

BG.

Google
<
2

WS Wer2zaqoys wea

July, 1934

Google

GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

AIMS AND OBJECTS

1. To organize the study of Indian culture in Greater India [i.e.
Serindia, India Minor, Indo-China and Insulindia], as well as
in China, Korea, Japan and other countries of A:

2. To arrange for the publication of the results of researches into the
history of India’s spiritual and cultural relations with the outside
world.

3. To create an interest in the history of Greater India and connected
problems among the students in the schools, colleges and Univer-
sities of India by instituting a systematic study of those subjects and
to take proper steps to stimulate the same.

4. To popularise the knowledge of Greater India by organising mass
meetings, lan:em lectures, exhibitions and conferences.

Order Form

To
Tke Honorary Secretary.
GREATER INDIA SOCIETY.
21, Badurbagan Row,
P.O. Amherst Street, Calcutta,
Dear Sir,
an Ordinary Member of
Please enrol me as a Subscriber to the Journal of id Greater India
Scciety.

Rs. 12!- (Membership fee for 1935)

Please realise from me "Tas." 4). (Subscription for 1935) bY #ehding your

Journal per V. P. P.
Yours truly,

Name.

Address.oc.occesesceee

Google :
THE

JOURNAL OF THE GREATER INDIA SOCIETY
duty, 1934

NOTICE

Friends and well-wishers of the Greater India Sooiety
who have subscribed to the Society's Journal are reminded
that their subscriptions lapse with the issue of the present
number. They are earnestly requested to send their
subscriptions for the next year as early as possible. Should
the subscriptions not reach our hands by the 3lst
December, 1934, we shall have no other alternative
than to send the next number of the Journal (which is
due to appear in January, 1935) per V. P. Post.

U.N, GHosHaL
21, Badurbagan Row, Hony. Secretary,
Calcutta, July 1934 GREATER INDIA SOCIETY
Select Contents of Oriental Journals ... ws 121

Google
GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

AIMS AND OBJECTS

Sceiety.

fa Subscriber to the Journal of ‘Ne Sreuter inate
Rs. 12/- (Membership fee for 1935)

Pleate realice from me "Ry. 4). (Subscription for 1935) bY sending your
Journal per V. P. P.

Yours truly,

Name...

Address

Google
THE

JOURNAL OF THE GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

duty, 1954
CONTENTS
Articles
Page
On the Origin of the Sailendras of Indonesia ... on) ie

By Prof. Dr. G. Coedés, Ph.D.

The Struggle between the Sailendras and the Cholas a
By Prof. Dr. R. C. Majumdar, M.A., Ph.D.

Indian Colonisation in Sumatra before the Seventh
By Prof. Dr. J. Przyluski, D. Litt.

An Old-Javanese Loan-record of the Saka Year 833... 102
By Himansu Bhusan Sarkar, M.A.

92

The term Sunyata and its different Interpretations ... 105
By Dr. E. Obermiller, Ph.D.

Notes

Ancient Indian Culture in Bali ae oo 18
By Dr. H. Meinhard, Ph.D.

Select Contents of Oriental Journals ... we 121

Google
Original from

UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
THE JOURNAL

OF THE
GREATER INDIA SOCIETY
You 1 ‘Guy, 1954 ==SSCOWN

On the Origin of the Sailendras of Indonesia

BY
Dr. G. Coedés.

After the publication of my article upon “The kingdom
of Srivijaya”’ in BEFEO., 6 (1918), Professors Vogel’ and
Krom" have each on his part developed a theory based upon
a fact which I had pointed out only incidentally : the mention
of the dynasty of the Sailendras in face B. of the inscription
of Ligor (then called by mistake the inscription of Vieng
Sa). This theory consists in considering the Sumatran kings
of Srivijaya to have belonged from the beginning of their
history to this dynasty of Sailendra and in admitting the equa-
tion Sailendra=the king of Srivijaya. Recalling the fact that
the inscription of Kalasan (778 A.D.) has for ite author a
king, who was the “omament of the Sailendra dynasty,”
Dr. Krom deduced in 1919 the existence of a Sumatran
Period in the history of Java—a period during which were
constructed the great monuments of Central Java. This
theory which was reproduced in his Hindoe-Javaansche
Geschiedenis published in 1926, remained the standard

1 Het koninkrik Srivijaya, Bijdt. 75 (1919), p. 626.
2 De Sumatreaneche periode der Javaansche Geschiedenis, Leyden
1919,

s00gle
6 G. COEDES

article till 1929, when Dr. Stutterheim' discovered in an
inscription of the K8du province the name of the king of
Kalasan in a list of sovereigns of the Javanese dynasty of
Mataram beginning with the name of Safijaya, the author
of the inscription of Cangal in 732 A.D. This discovery
placed everything in doubt, since it became thenceforth
difficult to consider a descendant of Safjaya as belonging
at the same time to the line of the kings of Srivijaya.
Contradicting the theory of Dr. Krom, Dr. Stutterheim pro-
posed to consider the Sailendras as a Javanese dynasty that
had exercised authority over Srivijaya during a certain period.
Against the ‘Sumatran period in Java,"’ supposed by Krom,
Stutterheim proposed a “Javanese period in Sumatra.”
Since that time each has supported hie own theory: Krom
has reproduced his theory in the second edition of his
Hindoe-Jvaansche Geschiedenis (1932) and in the archseo-
logical notes which he published from time to time in the
Bijdragen or in the Tijdschrift; Stutterheim seems to consider
his views to be the expression of truth itself.”

Dr. R. C, Majumdar has just devoted two articles* to
the Sailendras which complete each other and which, | think,
solves, without taking a clear part in the controversy, this
irritating problem. He completely dissociates the Sailendras
from Srivijaya; he disputes the identification of Srivijaya with
San-fo-ts'i of the Chinese and ZAabug or the empire of the
Maharaja of the Arab geographers—theee two regions corres-
ponding (according to him) to the empire of the Sailendras;
finally, he proposes to place the cradle and the seat of power
of the Sailendras in the Malay Peninsula, though he does
not completely discard the possibility that the seat might
have been found in Java, specially in the 8th century.

1 Een belangrijke oorkonde uit de Kédoe, Tijdschrift, 67 (1927),
p. 172A Javanese period in Sumatran History, Surakarta, 1929.

2 Cf, among other things, De Verhouding tusschen Sricijaya en
Matarém in de 8e eeuw A.D. (Oudheidkundige Aanteckeningen, XVI),
Bijdr., 86 (1930), p. 567.

3. The Sailendra Empite, Journal of the Greater India Society I
(1934); Les rois Sailendra de Suoarnadipa, BEFEO., XXXIIL.

Google
ORIGIN OF THE SAILENDRAS OF INDONESIA C3)

The arguments used by Dr. Majumdar in support of
his thesis are not equally convincing. I gladly recognise
that the identification of She-li-foShe (Srivijaya) with
San-fo-ts'i is not certain either phonetically (inspite of the
attempts of Aurousseau’ to justify the same), nor historically,
as the presence of the two names is attested at different dates.
I recognise also the force of the argument derived from my
previous works? which seeks to place the seat of the
kingdom of Javaka and consequently of Zabug in the Malay
Peninsula.’ Without, however, wishing to refer everything
to Palembang* of which the archseology is still so poor in
spite of recent discoveries,’ I feel obliged to record my
protest, when Dr. Majumdar writes,* ‘The definite identifi-
cation of Srivijaya with Palembang does not rest at all upon
any solid basis."* Nevertheless, it is from Palembang, that
comes the inscription relating to the foundation of Srivijaya,”
while the inscriptions of Bangka and of Karang Brahi (in the

1 BEFEO., XXIII, p. 47.

2A propos de la chate da royaume de Srioijaya, Bijdr, 83 (1927,
p. 459.

3. In favour of the localisation of San-fo-ts in the Malay Peninsula,
there is one argument, which Dr. Majumdar does not seem to be aware
of, The Chinese charts of Father Ricci (beginning of the 17th century)
place Kieou-Kiang and San-fo-s't in the middle of the Peninsula (L. Giles,
Translation from the Chinese scorld-map of Father Ricci, The Geogra-
phical Journal, 1919, pp. 2021). But the charts give fantastic
localisations for this region; besides, their Inte date takes away much of
the weight of their evidence.

4 Everybody (including myself) has had difficulty in losing sight of
@ note in my fret asticle on Srivijaya (BEFEO, XVIII, 6. p. 3, note $)
where I cautiously said, “This expression, ‘The kingdom of Palembang’,
which will frequently occur in course of the present article, is a con-
venient designation : in employing it, however, I do not wish to affirm that ~
the capital of this State was always at Palembang.”

5N. J. Krom, Antiquities of Palembang, Ann. Bibl, of Indian
Archaeology, 1931, p. 29; Devapramd Ghosh, Early art of Srivijaya, Journal
of the Greater India Society, I (1934) p. 30.

6 BEFEO., XXXiIlI.

7 This hypothesis of Prof. Ph. J. van Ronkel (Acta Orlentalis, II
(1924), p. 21) which Dr. Krom (Hindoe-Jacaansche Geschiedenis, p. 119)
‘and myself (BEFEO., XXX, p. 37) did not not believe to be maintainable,

Google
“ G. COEDES

hinterland of Jambi) in the name of the King of Srivijaya’
seem to confirm this localisation well. Finally, when Dr.
Majumdar claims that Yavabhimi in the Nalanda inscription
is a simple equivalent of Suvarnadvipa, which iteelf might
be a vague term signifying the regions beyond the sea,’ he
neglects the testimony of the inscription of Cafgal in which
Yavadvipa could not reasonably signify any other place than
the island of Java.

Whatever might be thought of these questions which I
do not want to treat here for want of new evidence capable
of being utilized for the discussion, there is one point in the
article of Dr, Majumdar, which I think to be excellent and
fruitful : this is the separation of the Sailendras and Srivijaya
before the IIth century. I'am so much the more eager to give
him my support on this point, as Dr. Majumdar attributes to
me “‘the hypothesis that the king of the Sailendra dynasty
mentioned in face B of Ligor inscription was identical with
the king of Srivijaya to whom face A of the same stéle
refers. Although I had not formulated this hypothesis in
a sufficiently precise manner in 1918,* 1 willingly recognise
my part of the responsibility for the identification of the
Sailendras with the kings of Srivijaya.

} Now, it is a fact (and Dr. Majumdar has the merit of
| bringing it out clearly) that the two faces of the stéle of
Ligor are absolutely independent of each other. Face A

hhas been rendered possible by the interesting remarks of Dr. R. A. Kern,
Enkele aanteekeningen op G. Coedés' witgave oan de Maleische inschriften
van Srivijaya, Bidr. 88 (1931), p. 568 (CE. exp. p. 511).

1G. Coedae, Les inscriptions malaises de Srivijaga, BEFEO., XXX
p. 29,

2-H. Kern, Verspr. Geschr., VII p. 115.

3 After indicating that according to the Great Charter of Leyden,
Maravijayottunigavarman, king of Katiha and Srivigaya belonge to Sailen-

dravaméa, | added, “Now the unfinished inscription incised upon the
second face of the stéle of Vieng Sa (read Ligor) states precisely that the

king $1i Maharaja was descended from Sailendravaméa. This proves at
‘any rate that in connecting Srivijaya of the sttle of Vieng Sa with Srivigaya
of the charter of Rajarbja I, 1 do not depart from the right path in my
researches,

Google
ORIGIN OF THE SAILENDRAS OF INDONESIA 65

(dated 775 A.D.) in the name of the King of Seivijaya gives

a complete text. Face B commencing with the word ‘Svasti’
gives the beginning of a new text in a different script and a *
little later date, which could have been added by a king
having no connection with that of face A.

In reality the epigraphic evidence mentioning Srivijaya
and the Sailendras between the end of the 7th century and
the beginning of the IIth divides itself in the following
fashion :—

Dates Mention of Srivijaya Mention of Sailendra
5 |“ Tnscription ta OF
690 Malay from Palembang,

Bangka ete.

175 Stale of Ligor, face A.
After
776 Stale of Ligor, face B.
178 Inscription of Kalasan
782 » » Kélorak
ca.

\ 850 Nalanda Plaque
1006 Great Oharter of Leyden

It will be seen from the above list that it is impossible,
according to sound methods, to affirm that before the [Ith
century the kings of Srivijaya belonged to the Sailendra
dynasty or that they reigned at Srivijaya, All that we can
conclude from the above is that a little after 775, a Seilendra,
probably that of the Kelurak inscription," incised at Ligor
the beginning of an inscription upon the reverse of a stéle
bearing on the other side a text emanating from Srivijaya
and that in 1006 the king of Kataha and of Srivijaya was a

1 The Sailendra king of the Kslurak inscription of 782 A.D. bears
the epithet vairioaraviravimardana “destroyer of the best of enemy-
heroes"(a) The Sailendra king of face B of the Ligor otdle bears that of

Google
6 G. COEDES

Sailendra. It follows from this (and this should have been
observed by Dr. Majumdar) that the controversy between
Drs. Krom and Stutterheim is useless. The question of
ascertaining if there was a Sumatran period in Java or a
Javanese period in Sumatra, is badly presented, or rather it
does not present itself at all. The existence of the Sailen-
dras in Sumatra is not certainly attested before the IIth cen-
tury. For the previous centuries one cannot attribute with
Dr. Krom a Sumatran origin to the Sailendras of Javanese
inscriptions of the 8th century, nor attribute with Dr. Krom
to the Javanese Sailendras a supremacy over Sumatra during
the same period. If the article of Dr. Majumdar serves to
settle the difference by non-suiting both the adversaries, it
will not be written in vain.

As regards the origin of the Sailendras Dr. Majumdar
Proposes to connect them with the Saila and dbhava
dynasties of Orissa. ““We do not lack the indication”; he
writes at the end of his article, “‘to make us suppose that
the Sailendras originated from Kalinga, and that they ex-
tended their power over the Far-East through the inter-
mediary of Lower Burma and the Malay Peninsula”. I
would indicate here another possibility which, besides, does
not exclude the hypothesis of Dr. Majumdar, and which could
even complete the same.

Seilendra means “the king of the mountain". Now
Indo-China in the first six centuries of the Christian era knew
an empire governed by some kings bearing this title: this
was Fu-nan. As early as 191]' Dr. L. Finot, retouching a

abepasarvarighamada (b), “impassioned for the murder of his innumerable
enemies.” These two inscriptions seem to be something other than the
banal epithets of prasasti, since the Néland& charter, referring no doubt to
the same personage, states that he bore a name (perhaps indigenous)
equivalent to that of “the destroyer of enemy-heroes™. (Sriviravairimatha-
ndnugatabhidhanab) (c).

(a) Tijdschrift, vol. 68, p. 18.

(b) BEFEO., XVIII, 6, p. 30 (corrected reading).

(© El, XVI, p. 323.

1 BCAL,, 1911, p. 29,

Google
ORIGIN OF THE SAILENDRAS OF INDONESIA or
hypothesis of Gerini,’ proposed to find in the name of

Fu-nan (ancient pronunciation :—b’u-nam) a transcription of
khmér bnam (modem: phnom) meaning “‘mountain’.
More recently? he has suggested that “this name might
correspond to an indigenous expression “kuru bnam™,
“king of the mountain", which the Chinese interpreted to
mean “king of (the country) of Bnam™. The Sanskrit ins-
criptions of Cambodia characterize in fact on different
occasions the ancient sovereign of Fu-nan by terms signify-
ing “king of the mountain”. To the inscription of Han Cei
(st. 10 face A., st. 5 face B.,)? mentioned by Dr. Finot, I
can add the testimony of the unpublished inscription of
Kak Préh Kit* which calls them Sailaraja.

The kings of Fu-nan claimed the title of emperor. The
inscription of Bhabavarman I° gives one of them the title of
Sarvabhauma which is an equivalent of Cakravartin; the
digraphic inscriptions of Yagovarman I designate them by the
expression Adhirdja of Vyadhapura.* Now face B. of the
Ligor stéle tells us that the king bore the title of Sri Mahari
“to signify that he derived his origin from Sailendravaméa,
Sailendravamsaprabha[ va] nigadatah Srimaharajanéma. This
reading and this translation are the result of a corection’ by
Mr. Mus of the faulty text of the original which reads
prabhanigadatah Mr. Mus remarks that “the proposed in-
terpretation furnishes the most explicit and much the most

1 Researches on Ptolemy's Geography, p. 207.
2 J.A., vol. 210 (1927), p. 186.
3. ‘The Sanskrit term is paroatabhapale (ISCC., pp. 13 and 16).
4 Coeds Inventory, No. 90:—
“‘Sridanavarmma nrpatih prajfiarataikasamprayah
asit krantabhuoones = Sailardjasamunnatih.”

“King Iéinavarman who found his only pleasure in the company of
sages, attained, after traversing the earth, the exalted position of king
of the Mountain (the Himalaya) for of a “king of the mountain,
Sailaraja)."” The word—play makes equal sense if it is concluded from
the above that it was Isinavarman I, who consummated the ruin of the
power of Fu-nan and substituted for it that of Kambuja. (REFEO., XXVIII,
p. 130), 3 BEFEO., XXVIII, p. 130.

6 Ibid. 7 BEFEO., XXIX, p. 448.

Google
Cy G. COEDES

ancient testimony that is to be found for the special sense of
the Indian title of Sri Maharaja which characterized the
Sailendravaméa according to the Arab travellers”. While
adopting in toto the very happy correction of Mr. Mus, | am
tempted to translate it somewhat differently the better to
render the value of the adverbial suffix tah which rather in-
dicates an origin, a cause than an end to attain; and,
I believe, I am nearer to the text in translating “bearing the
title of Sri Maharaja, because of the mention of his origin
i which is the Sailendravaméa’. The text seems to wish to
say that it was only the announcement (nigada) of his origin
that brought him the imperial title of Sri Maharaja, or in
other words that in order to bear this title he must have issued
from the Sailendravaméa, and must have been of the line of
“the king of the mountain”.

This formula makes sense only if this line enjoyed a
great prestige such as was the case with the royal dynasty
of Funan. The ejection of this dynasty from its capital of
Ba Phnom is not anterior to Iéanavarman I (ca. 620). The
Chinese annalists tell us that the kings of Fu-nan were
compelled to migrate more to the south, to the town of
Na-fu-na' where they vegetated perhaps till the end of the
7th century.” Now it was in the first part of the following
century that there appeared in Java, the founder of this
dynasty of Mataram, to which belonged the donor of
Kalasan, Rakai Panankaran, “‘ornament of the Sailendra
dynasty.” Must we suppose that these Javanese kings
claimed to be the descendants, or the inheritors of whatsoever
title of the Sailaraja of Fu-nan? One fact seems to justify this
hypothesis. The accession of the Sailendras of Java in the
8th century coincides with this obscure period in the history
vf Cambodia, during which the Chinese historians inform us
that the country was split up in twain, and the Arab
geographers relate that the khmér country had troubles with
Zabug and was compelled finally to accept its suzerainty.

These facts accord well enough with the hypothesis that

1 BEFEO,, Ill, p. 274. 2 J.A., vol. 210 (1917), p. 186.

Google
ORIGIN OF THE SAILENDRAS OF INDONESIA C)

the descendants, real or fictitious, of the emperors of Fu-nan
after having carved out a dominion in Java in the first part
of the 8th century afterwards tried to claim back their ancient
possessions. It became then an aggressive retum towards
the Indo-Chinese coast which was abandoned at the end of
the 7th century to the power of the Kambujas, and this
represented the campaign of the king of Zabug in the
khmér country mentioned by Abi Zayd,’ the Javanese
incursions of 764, 774 and 787 into southern Campa* and
the Javanese conquest of Ligor at the same epoch.”

If the Sailendras of Java claimed connection with ancient
Fu-nan, one would better understand than has been the case
up to the present, the manner in which Jayavarman I after
his return from Java‘ established his authority over Cambodia
at the beginning of the 9th century. To shake off the
tutelage “the king of the mountain" to which this title give
precisely the quality of emperor cakravartin, he should become
one himself: and this was why he installed his capital
upon Mt. Mahendra (Phnon Kulén), instituting at the same
time the cult of devardja, for, as the inscription of Sdék kak
thom, says,’ “Kambujadeéa was no more dependent on

1 Ferrand, Textes géographiques, 1, p. 854.

2 Dr. Majumdar has no doubt reason to view this not merely (es
has been very often said), as the simple iside of Malay pirates but as
veritable expeditions organised by the Javanese forces (Javavala, according
to the inscriptions of Campa).

3 I have indicated above (p. 66 f.n.) the reason which has led me to
identify the king of the Ligor stéle, face B, with that of the Nalands
charter beating the title of king of Java, (Yavabhimipala). The exiat-
tence of an incomplete inscription on the back of the stile of Srivijaya ie
well explained through the hypothesis of a rapid conquett followed by a
reverse. A king reigning peacefully at Ligor would have hed the time
to find a new stone and cause his inscription to be incised thereon to
the very end.

4 A new argument in favour of the identification of Jaod in the
inscription of Sdok kak thom with the island of Java has just been
given us by Mme. de Coral Rémusat who pointe out “the Javancee
influences upon the ast of Rolu8h (9th century)." (.A., vol. 223, 1923,
p. 190, Cf. Indian Art and Letters, N.S., vol. VII, 1933, p. 114).

5 BEFEO., XV, 2, p. 88.

2

Google
70 G. COEDES

Java and there was [in this kingdom] no more than one
single sovereign who was cakravartin.”” If the more or less
effective suzerainty of distant Java had been only the result
of expeditions at the end of the preceding century, there
would have been no need (I think) of so many ceremonies for
ite liberation. But if the Sailendras of Java played the part
of inheritors of Kurun Bnam, the ancient occupiers of the
soil, it would be a different af and a new ritual associated
with a new mountain would be necessary. When Jay
varman II and his successors ceased to reside at Mahendra-
parvata, they transported the sacred mountain to the centre
of their successive capitals. At Hariharalaya (group of
Rolfioh), the “central mountain" was the pyramid of Bakon;
at Yasodharapura (Atkor I), it was Bakhén; at Chok
Gargyaz (Kah Ker) it was the Prana du Prasat Thom; at
Ankor they were successively the PhimSnakas, the Baphtion
and the Bayon.

I hope I shall not be misunderstood regarding the sense
of the thesis sketched here. 1 do not claim that the
Sailendras of Java had been the authentic descendants of
the sovereigns of Fu-nan. But after noticing on the
one hand a synchronism between the fall of the kings
of Funan and the accession of the Sailendras and
stating on the other hand that the attitude of Jayavarman II
towards Java is underetood better if he had to break the
ancient bonds and an old tradition of several centuries, 1
think I have been able to formulate the hypothesis that after
the eviction of the kings of Fu-nan from Indo-China, a
Javanese princely family, having more or less real ties with
them, resumed their dynastic title of “‘king of the mountain”
and at the same time made their own the political and
territorial claims which this title implied. This hypothesis
does not exclude that of Dr. Majumdar regarding the Indian
origin of the Sailendras, but it completes and enriches the
same by bringing the Javanese Sailendras into touch with
the Sailodbhavas of Orissa, no more directly but through
the intermediary of the Sailaraja of Fu-nan,

Google
The Struggle between the Sailendras
and the Cholas*

By Dr. R. C. Majumdar

Throughout the eleventh century A.D. the outstanding
fact in the history of the Sailendras is an unceasing struggle
with the powerful Chola rulers of South India.

The Chola State was one of the three kingdoms in South
India which flourished from a hoary antiquity. It extended
along the Coromandel coast, and ite traditional boundaries
were the Pennar river in the north, the Southern Vellaru
river on the south and up to the borders of Coorg on the
west, The rise of the Pallavas within this area kept the
Cholas in check for a long time. But the Cholas re-asserted
their ascendancy from the commencement of the tenth
century A.D. With the accession of Parantaka I in 907 A.D.
the Cholas entered upon a career of aggressive imperialism.
By a succession of great victories, Rajaraja the Great
(985-1012 A.D.) made himself the lord paramount of
Southern India. His still more famous son Rajendra Chola
(1012-1035 A.D.) raised the Chola power to its climax
and his conquests extended as far as Bengal in the north.

The Cholas were also a great naval power and this
naturally brought them into contact with Indonesia. At
firnt there existed a friendly relation between the Chola kings
and the Sailendra rulers. An inscription written partly in
Sanskrit (1044 A.D.) and partly in Tamil (1046 A.D.), the
so-called Large Leyden Grant, tells us that in the 2st
year of Rajaraja Rajakeéarivarman (i.e., Rajaraja the Great),
yottuigavarman, king of Kataha and Sri Vigaya,
and belonging to Sailendra dynasty, granted a village to a
Buddhist monastery at Nagipattana which was constructed

* Continued from vol. I, p. 27.

Google
2 R. C. MAJUMDAR

by his father Calamanivarman and named after him as
Calamanivarmavihira. In the Tamil portion the Chola king
endorses the grant,’ referring to the royal donor as king of
Kidara and Kadara.
This interesting record naturally recalls the Nalanda
! copper-plate of the time of Devapala. In both cases a
Sailendra king grants villages to a Buddhist temple, erected
in India, through the favour and courtesy of the Indian king.
Both furnish us with names of Sailendra kings not known
from indigenous sources.
Fortunately the present inscription can be precisely
— dated, for the 2Ist year of Raj falls in 1005 A.D. We
thus come to know that Sri Maravijayottufigavarman, son of
Cadamanivarman was on the throne in 1005 A.D. To G.
} Coedés belongs the credit of tracing these two names in the
i Chinese Annals.* The History of the Sung dynasty gives
us the following details about them.’
|. “Im the year 1003 the king Seli-chu-la-wu-ni-fu-ma-
| tiau-hwa (Sri Cadamanivarmadeva) sent two envoys to bring
| tribute; they told that in their country a Buddhist temple
| had been erected in order to pray for the long life of the
* emperor.
In the year 1008 the king Se-ri-ma-la-p'i (Sri-Mara-vi-
jayottuigavarman) sent three envoys to present tribute.
Comparing the Chinese and Indian dates we can easily
put the death of Cadamanivarman and the accession of his
son Sri-Mara-vijayottuigavarman some time between 1003
and 1005 A.D. So the relations between the Chola and
Sailendra kings were quite friendly at the commencement
of the eleventh century A.D. It is interesting to note that
while the Sanekrit portion of the Leyden Grant refers to Sri-

11 _ 1 The inscription was edited by Burgess in ‘Arch, Suro, South
Uf India, vol. IV, p. 206.
The Sanskrit portion is dated in 1044 and the Tamil portion in
104% A.D. The Tamil portion gives “Sulamanipadma” in place of
“*Culamanivarman™ as the name of the king and the Vihara.
2. BEFEO., Vol. XVIII, No. 6.
3 Groeneveldt, Notes, p. 65 JA., I1-XX (192), p. 19,

Google
STRUGGLE BETWEEN SAILENDRAS AND CHOLAS B

Mara-vijayottungavarman as king of Kataha and Sri-Vigay:
the Tamil portion refers to him only as the king of Kadara or
Kidara. In spite of Ferrand’s criticism’ there is much to be
said in support of the view of G. Coedés, that Kataha, Kadara
or Kidara are all equivalents of Kedah in the western part of
the Malay Peninsula.* It would then follow, that while the
king Miéra-vijayottuigavarmadeva ruled over both $1i-
vijaya and Malay Peninsula, as is also testified to by the
Arab writers, the Cholas regarded them rather as rulers of
Malay Peninsula with suzerainty over Sri-vijaya.

There were also commercial relations between the two
countries. An old Tamil poem refers to ships with mer-
chandise coming from Kalagam to Kavirippiimpaddinam,
the great port situated at the mouth of the Kaveri river.*
Kalagam, which a later commentator equates with Kadi
denotes in any case Kedah in Malay Peninsula which the
Arabs designate as Kala.

The friendly relation between the Chola kings and the
Sailendra rulers did not last long. In a few years hosti
broke out and Rajendra Chola sent a naval expedition
against his mighty adversary beyond the sea. The details
preserved in the Chola records leave no doubt that the ex-
pedition was crowned with brilliant success and various
parts of the empire of the Sailendras were reduced by the
mighty Chola emperor. The reason for the outbreak of
hostility and the different factors that contributed to the
stupendous success of the most arduous undertaking of the
Chola emperor are unknown to us. Fortunately we have a
fair idea of the time when the expedition took place and we
also know the name of the Sailendra king who was humbled
by the Indian emperor. These and other details are furnish-
ed by the records of the Cholas, and a short reference to
these is necessary for a proper understanding of the subject.

1 JA., W-XX (1922) pp. 50-51.
2 Op. cit, pp. 19 &.
3 Quoted by Kanaksabhai in Madras Review (August, 1902). Also '
ef. K. Aiyangar’s remarks in Journ. of Ind. Hiat,, vol. Il, p. 347. fi

Google
" R. C. MAJUMDAR

1. Several inscriptions at Malurpatna dated in the 23rd
year of king Rajaraja, record that he was pleased to destroy
the ships (at) Kandalur Salai. .and twelve thousand
ancient islands of the sea."

The 23rd year of Rajaraja corresponds to A.D. 1007.
It is therefore reasonable to presume that the Cholas possessed
a powerful navy, and started on a deliberate policy of
making maritime conquests early in the eleventh century A.D.

2. The Tiruvalangadu plates, dated in the 6th year of
ndra Chola (1017-8 A.D.), contain the following verse :?

1 Nos. 128, 130, 131, 132 of Channapatna Telug, Epigrephio
Carnatice, vol, IX. trans., pp. 159-161.

2 South Ind. Ins., vol. Ill, Pert Ill, pp. 383 €. ‘The inscription
consists of 271 lines in Sanskrit and 524 lines in Tamil. Both the parts
are expressly dated in the 6th year of Rajendra Chola, But the Sanskrit
portion is urually regarded engraved at a later date. When
the inscription was fret noticed in the Annual Report of the Archeological
Sarcey (1903-4, pp. 234.5), the following remarks were made: “The
Tamil portion of Tiruvalaigadu plates is dated in the 6th year of
Rajendra Chola's reign (A.D. 1016-17) and the Sanskrit portion also
refers to the grant having been made in the same year. But the conquest
of Kajiha, which, as we know from other inscriptions of the king, took
place in the 15th or I6th year of his reign, is mentioned in the Sanskrit
portion. It has therefore to be concluded that, as in the Leyden Grant,
the Sanskrit Prafasti of the Tiruvalaigada plates was added subsequently
to the Tamil portion which actually contains the king's order (issued
in the 6th year of his reign).” This argument has, however, very litle
force, for, ax we now know, there is no reason to place the expedition
to Katha in the 15th or I6th year and as we shall sce later, an
Inscription of the 13th year of the king refers to thete over-sen conquests
In detail,

Hiultzsch, while editing the inscription, expresses the same view in
‘a modified manner. Referring to the conquests recorded in the Sanskrit
portion he observes: “These conquests of Rajendra Chola are mostly
recorded in the historical introductions to his Tamil inscriptions dated
from and after the 13th year of hie reign. It may here be noted that
the Tamil introduction given in lines 131 to 142 below is naturally
the shorter one, since it belongs to the sixth year of the king's reign;
and since it does not include a list of all the conquests mentioned above
it Kas been suggested that the Sanskrit portion of the grant which
includes the conquests of the later years must be a subsequent addition,”
(South Ind, Ine., vol. Ill, p. 389).

Google
STRUGGLE BETWEEN SAILENDRAS AND CHOLAS B

*"Having conquered Kataha with (the help of) his valiant
forces that had crossed the ocean, (and) having made all
kings bow down (before him), this (king) (Rajendra Chola)
protected the whole earth for a long time’ (v. 123).

3. An inscription at the temple of Malur in the Banga-
lore district, dated in the 13th year of Rajendra Chola
(A.D. 1024-5), gives a detailed account of his over-sca
conquests."

4. The same details are also given in the Tanjore ins-
eription of Rajendra Chola dated in his 19th year (A.D.
1030-31) in the following words;? “and (who) (Rajendra
Chola) having despatched many ships in the midst of the

It must be observed, however, that none of the records of Rajendra
Chola gives any specific date for any of his conquests, and we can only
conclude that the conquests must have been made before the date of
the inscription which recorde them. It is, therefore, too risky to assert
that any particular conquest is of a later date.

On the other hand, a comparison of the records shows that they
contain stereotyped official list of conquests repeated in exactly the same
words, with additions from time to time in records of later years,
This, no doubt, is a strong argument in favour of the belief that the
“additional conquests’ took place after the date of the last inscription
which does not mention them. .

Judging from the above the conquest of Katha in the sixth year
cof Rajendra Chola is doubtful, as it is not included in the list of conquests
in inscriptions dated in the %h and 13th years of his reign. As will
be shown below, the conquest of Kataha with a number of other states
beyond the sea le mentioned in inscriptions dated in the 13th and 20th
years of the reign.

If, however, the Sanskrit portion of the Tiruvalaigady plates were
composed after these conquests, it is very dificult to believe that the
suthor who has devoted 40 verses to the conquests of Rajendra Chola,
would have merely referred to these mighty exploits in only one verse.

On the whole, therefore, until more specific evidence te available,
we accept the clear deduction from the inscription that a naval expedi-
tion was sent to Katiha. For reasons given below, it has to be
distinguished from the more elaborate and successful expeditions of the
1th year, referred to in Channapatna and Tanjore Inscriptions,

1 No. 4 of Channapatna Talug (Ep. Carn, IX, pp. 148-50).

2 South Ind. Ins., vol. I, pp. 105 ff, (Some corrections were made
later, in Ep., Ind., vol. IX, pp. 231-2).

Google
% R. C. MAJUMDAR

rolling sea and having caught Safgrama-vijayottuigavarman,
the king of Kadaram, along with (his) vehicles, (viz) rutting
elephants, (which were as impetuous as) the sea in fighting,
(took) the large heap of treasures, which (that king) had
| rightfully accumulated; the (arch called) Vidyadhara-torana
t the ““war-; gate” , of the extensive city of the enemy; the
‘Jewel-gate”, adorned with great splendour; the “gate of
large jewels”, Vijayam, of great fame; Pannai, watered by
the river; the ancient Malaiyar (with) a fort situated on a high
hill; Mayirudingam, surrounded by the deep sea (as) a moat;
Hangagogam (i.e., Lankasuka), undaunted (in) fierce battles;
Mappappalam, having abundant high waters as defence;
Mevilimbangam, having fine walle as defence; Valaip-
- pandiyu, possessing (both) cultivated land (?) and jungle;
Talaittakkolam, praised by great men (versed in) the sciences;
Madamaliigam, firm in great and fierce battles; [amuri-
‘deégam, whose fierce strength was subdued by a vehement
(attack); Manakkavaram whose flower-gardens (resembled)
the girdle (of the nymph) of the southern region; Kadaram,
of fierce strength, which was protected by the neighbouring
sea,

5. These details are also repeated in several other
inscriptions dated in the 19th, 22nd, 23rd and 27th years of
Rajendra Choladeva.*

6. The preambles of two inscriptions dated in the 18th
and 32nd years of Rajendra Chola refer to him as ruling over
Gange (or Gangai), the East country and Kadaram.*

7. In an inscription at Mandikere, dated 1050 A.D.,
Rajendra Chola is said to have conquered Gangai in the
north, Iafgai in the south, Mahodai on the west and Kadaram
on the east.>

8. The Kanyakumari inscription (verse 72) of the 7th

1 Nos. 82, 83 and 133 of Channapatna Talug (Ep. Carn. IX, 148-50,
nd 37 of Nelamaigala Talug (Ibid., pp. 30-35).
f Nelamatgala Talug (Ibid., p. 29); No. 142 of Hoskote
Talug (Ibid., p. 107.

3 No. 25 of Nelamafgala Talug (Ibid., p. 33).

Google
STRUGGLE BETWEEN SAILENDRAS AND CHOLAS ”

year of Vira Rajendra contains the following statement
about Rajendra Chola.
With (the help) of his forces which crossed the seas
sseeche (Rajendra Chola) burnt Kataha that could not be
set fire to by others.”*

In the light of the above records, the long passage in
the Tanjore inscription (No. 4) seems to indicate that
Rajendra Chola defeated the king of Kadara, took possession
of varicus parts of his kingdom, and concluded his campaign
by taking Kadara itself. In other words, the various countries
mentioned in the passage were not independent kingdoms,
but merely the different subject-states of Safngrama-Vijayo-
ttuigavarman, ruler of Kadara and Sri Vijaya.”

We must, therefore, try to identify these geographical
names, with a view to understand correctly the exact nature
of Rajendra Chola’s conquests, and, indirectly, also of the
empire of Satgrama-Vijayottuiga.

It is needless now to refer to the various suggestions
and theories in this respect that were made from time to
time till the ingenious researches of Coedés put the whole
thatter in a clear light.? Although some of the conclusions
of Coedés are not certainly beyond all doubt, his views are
‘a great improvement on his predecessors and we cannot do
better than accept his results, at least as a working hypothesis.
We, therefore, sum up below the views put forward by
Coedés with some modifications necessitated by later
researches.*

1 Travancore Archeological Series, vol. lll, Part I, p. 157. Ep. Ind.,
vol. XVIII, pp. 45-46, 54.

2 This view, originally propounded by Hultzsch (op. cit.) is accepted
by Venkayya (Rep. Arch. Suro. Burma. 1909-10, p. 14) and Coedés
(BEFEO., vol. XVIII, No. 6, pp. 56).

3 BEFEO., vol. XVIII, No. 6. For previous theories cf. South Ind.
Ins., vols. Il, p. 106; Ill, pp. 104-5; Ann, Report. Arch. Surv., 1896-99,
p 17; 1907-8, p. 233; Madras Review 192, p. 251; Rep. Arch. Surv.
Burma, 1906-7, p. 19, 1909-10, p. 14, 1916-17, p. 25.

4 These are indicated by references to later authorities in footnotes.
Unless otherwise indicated, the statements in the text are based upon
Coedds's article (op. cit.).

3

Google
2B R. C, MAJUMDAR,

PANNAI. This country is probably identical with Pane
which Nagarak;tagama includes among the states of Sumatra,
subordinate to Majapahit. Gerini places it at modern Pani
or Panei on the easter side of the island of Sumatra.’

MALAIYOR. This is no doubt the same as the country
known as Malayu which is sometimes written with a ‘r' at
the end (as in this instance and in some Arab texts) or
sometimes without it. The identification of this place has
formed a subject of keen and protracted discussion.” It has
been located both in the eastern as well as in the western
coast of Sumatra, and even in the southern part of Malay
Peninsula. We learn from I-tsing that it was fifteen days’
Journey by sea from Sri-Vijaya’ and was conquered by this
state some time between 672 and 705 A.D.

The Dutch scholars, however, agree in identifying it with
Jambi.‘

MAYIRUDINGAM. Taking the first syllable ma as
equivalent to Sanskrit maha, Yirudingam has been identified
with Je-le-ting of Chau Ju-kua. Schlegel identified this place
with Jeluton in the island of Bangka.’ while Gerini proposed
various identifications viz., with (1) Jelutong at the South-
west of Jambi, (2) Jelutong in Johore and (3) Jelutong in
Selangor. Coedés concludes from a passage of Chau Ju-
kua's book that it must be looked for in the centre
of the Malay Peninsula, and belongs to the northern-
most group of states (in the Malay Peninsula) which were
subordinate to the Sailendra empire. Rouffaer, on the other
hand, locates it in the extreme south-east of the Peninsula,
near Cape Rumania.”

1 Getini, Researches, p. 513.

2 Cf. Pelliot, BEFEO., 1V, pp. 326 f., Gerini, Restarches,
pp. 528 f.; Ferrand, JA., 11-X1. (1918), pp. 391 @. and I-XIl, (1918),
pp. 51-154.

3. Coedas says that according to I-tsing Malayu was in the immediate
neighbourhood (‘voisinage immediat’) of Cheli-fo-che. This is hardly
accurate,

4 Rouffaer, BKI., vol. 77 (1921), pp. 11

5 T’oung Pao (1901), p. 134. 6 Gerini, Researches, pp. 627, 826.

7 Rouffaer, BKI., vol. 7 (1921).

Google
STRUGGLE BETWEEN SAILENDRAS AND CHOLAS 79

ILANGASOGAM. M.G. Ferrand has identified the
country with the Ling-ya-sseu-kia which Chau Ju-kua includes
among the vassal states of San-fd-ts'i, and also with Lenka-
suka referred to as a tributary state of Majapahit in Nagara-
Kytagama.! On the basis of a passage in the Hikayat
Maron Mahavaméa Coedés places it in the Kedah Peak
(Gunong Jerai).? But Ferrand places it in the Isthmus of
Ligor® while Rouffaer locates it in Johor.*

M4-PPAPPALAM. Venkayya was the first to pomt
cout that this country is mentioned in Mahavamsa.* There
it is referred to as a port in the country of Rammafifiadesa.
But as the authority of the king of Pagan extended far to
the south, the location of this place in the western part of
the Isthmus of Kra is not barred out.

Rouffaer identifies it with Great ‘Pahang’.®

MEVILIMBANGAM. M. Sylvaih Lévi identifies it with
Karmaranga, the Kamalanka of Hiuen Tsang and places it in
the Isthmus of Ligor.”

VALAIPPANDORU. Rouffeer identifies it with Pandu-
rang or Phanrang* but its accuracy may be doubted.

TALAITTAKKOLAM. It is almost certain that the
country is identical with Takkola of Milindapafiho and
Takola of Ptolemy, the word ‘Talai’ in Tamil signifying
‘head’ or ‘chief’. It must be located in the Isthmus of Kra
or a little to the south of it.”

MA-DAMALINGAM. A short inscription found in
Jaiya refers to a country called Tambraliiga—which is to

1 Ferrand, Textes., p. 647 f.n. 1.
2 Gerini was the first to point it out (JRAS., 1905., pp. 495 ff.).

3 L.A U-XIl (1818), pp. 134

4 BKI., 77 (1921), pp. 89 &.

5 Ann. Rep., 18989, p. 17 Arch. Survey of Burma, Ann. Rep.,
1909.10, p. 14.

6 BKI., vol. 77 (1921), p. 83. 7 JA., vol. CCI (1923),

8 BKI., vol. 77 (1921), p. 82.

9 There is a vast literature on “Takkola’. In addition to the autho-
tities cited by Coedds, I may refer to the views of S. Lévi (Etudes
‘Asiatique, vol. Il, pp. 3 1).

Google
ci) R. C, MAJUMDAR

be located on the eastern side of the Malay Peninsula,
between the Bay of Bandon and Nagor Sri Dharmaraj
(Ligor). Damalingam has been identified with Tambra-
lingam, ma being equivalent to maha. It is evidently the
same as Tan-ma-ling which Chau Ju-kua includes among the
tributary states of San-fo-ts'i

ILAMURIDESAM. Leaving aside the initial i which is
often prefixed in Tamil to foreign names, this can be easily
identified with Lamuri of the Arab geographers and Lambri
of Marco Polo, situated in the northem part of Sumatra.
This country, under the form Lan-wou-li, is included among
the tributary states of San-fo-ts’i by Chau Ju-kua.

MA-NAKKAVARAM. Taking the first syllable as
equivalent to maha the place can be easily identified with
Nikobar islands. The form Necuveran used by the Marco Polo
closely resembles Nakkavaram.

KATAHA, KADARAM, KIDARAM. M. Coedés has
shown good grounds to prove that Kataha is the same as
Kie-tcha referred to by the Chinese as a port as early as
7th century A.D, The same place is referred to in later
times as Kie-t'o and Ki-t'o, which may be equated to Kada
and Kido. As the change of a ‘lingual’ to ‘liquid’ was very
common in those days, the same place may be identified
with Kalah or Kila of Arab geographers and also with Ko-lo
which Kia Tan places on the northern side of the Straits of
Malacca, and Sintang Chou places at the south-east of
Pan-pan. All these different names thus correspond, both
phonetically and geographically, to the modern Kedah. In
a Tamil poem it is referred to as Kalagam.

It has been seen above that Ilangaéogam is also to be
placed in Kedah. But as Iaiigaéogam or Gunong Jerai is
placed too far in the south of Kedah, Kedah is also
mentioned separately. It may be mentioned that in
Nagarakrtagama both Kedah and Lenkasuka are mentioned
as vassal states of Majapahit.'

The detailed discussion clearly shows that Rajendra

1 Nagarakptigama, ch. 16, VV. 13-14.

Google
STRUGGLE BETWEEN SAILENDRAS AND CHOLAS a

Chola’s conquests extended practically over the whole of the
eastern coast-region of Sumatra, and the central and
southern part of Malay Peninsula, and included the two
capital cities Kataha and Sri-Vijay That the story of this
victory is not merely an imagination of the court-poets but
based on facts, is proved beyond all doubt by the detailed
references to the vassal states. It is interesting to note that
many of these states are included in the Sailendra empire
(San-fo-ts'i) by later Chinese authorities like Chau Ju-kua.’

The date of this decisive victory can be ascertained with
tolerable certainty. The Ins, No. 3, quoted above, shows that
it must have taken place not later than the 13th year of
Rajendra Chola. Now, the Tirumalai inscription,” dated in
the same year, gives an account of his inland conquests,
but does not contain a word about his over-sea conquests.
If, for example, one compares the Tanjore Ins. (No. 4 above)
with the Tirumalai Ins., it would appear that the former
repeats word for word the entire passage in the latter,
describing the inland conquests of Rajendra Chola, and then
adds the passage, quoted above, describing his over-sea
conquests. It may, therefore, be reasonably presumed, that
these over-sea conquests had not taken place at the time the
Tirumalai inscription was recorded. As the Tirumalai
inscription is dated in the 13th year, we may presume that
these conquests took place during the ehort interval between
the drafting of this record and that of the Inscription No. 3.
In other words, the over-sea conquests of Rajendra Chola took
place in the 13th year of his reign, i.e. A.D. 1024-5, possibly
during the latter part. We may, therefore, provisionally
accept A.D. 1025 as the date of the great catastrophe which ;
befell the Sailendra empire.

But according to the plain interpretation of the Inscription
No. 2, quoted above, the hostility broke out much earlier,
and as early as 1017-18 A.D., or some time before it, a
naval expedition was sent against Kajaha. There is nothing

1 Chau Ju-kua’s account has been translated by Hirth and Rockhill.
2 Ep. Ind., vol. IX, pp. 229 f,

Google
a R. C, MAJUMDAR

surprising in it, for the Inscription No. 1, quoted above, clearly
shows that early as 1007 A.D., the Cholas had begun
an aggressive imperialistic policy to obtain mastery of the

impossible now to ascertain exactly the
cause of either the outbreak of hostility or the complete
collapse of the Sailendra power, reference may be made to
at least some important factors which contributed to the one
or the other. According to the Chola records, the conquest
of Kalinga and the whole eastern coast up to the mouth of
the Ganges was completed before the over-sea expedition was
sent. Prof. S, K. Aiyangar concludes from a study of all
the relevant records that the actual starting-point of the
, over-sea expedition was in the coast-region of Kaliiga."
' Prof. Aiyangar infers from this fact that the conquest of
! Kalinga was undertaken by Rajendra Chola as it “‘was
particularly necessary in view of the over-seas expedition
that must have become necessary for some reason or other.””
He holds further “that the Kalingas were possibly rivals in
the over-seas empire in connection with which the overseas
expedition was actually undertaken.”

Now these two statements are somewhat vague and,
perhaps, even contradictory. But it is quite clear that the
conquest of Kalinga and the whole coastal region furnished
the Chola emperor with ample resources for his over-sea
expedition. The mastery over the porte of Kaliiga and
Bengal, gave him well-equipped ships and sailors accustomed
to voyage in the very regions which he wanted to conquer.
; The naval resources of the whole of the eastern coast of
India were thus concentrated in the hands of Rajendra
Chola, and it was enough to tempt a man to get possession
of the territory which served as the meeting ground of the
trade and commerce between India and the western countries
on the one hand and the countries of the Far East on the
other, The geographical position of the Sailendra empire

~ 1 Journal of Indian History, vol. Il, p. 345.

Google
STRUGGLE BETWEEN SAILENDRAS AND CHOLAS 8

enabled it to control almost the whole volume of maritime
trade between western and eastern Asia and the dazzling
prospect which its conquest offered to the future commercial
supremacy of the Cholas seems to be the principal reason of
the overseas expedition undertaken by Rajendra Chola, But
it is the conquest of the eastern coastal regions of India that
alone brought such a scheme within the range of practical
politics. °

Although for the time being, the success of the Cholas
seems to be complete: from the very nature of the case, it
could not have possibly continued for long. The task of
maintaining hold upon a distant country across the sea was
too great to be borne by the successors of Rajendra Chola
and they had too many difficulties at home to think of the
empire abroad. Rajadhiraja, the eldest son of Rajendra
succeeded him in A.D. 1035. His whole reign was a period
of unceasing struggle with the neighbouring powers and he
himeelf fell fighting with the Chalukyas at the battlefield of
Koppam in A.D. 1052 or 1053. Virarajendra who ascended
the throne ten years later no doubt inflicted a severe defeat
upon the Chalukyas, but his death in 1070 A.D., followed by
a disputed succession and civil war, seriously weakened
the prestige and authority of the Cholas. To make matters
worse, Kalinga freed itself from the yoke of the Cholas and
this crippled the naval resources of that kingdom. The supre-
macy of the Cholas was revived to a considerable extent by
Kulottuiga Chola (1070-1119), the grandson (daughter's son)
of the famous Rajendra Chola. He reconquered Kalinga,
and established peace and prosperity over his extensive
dominions during a long reign of 49 years."

The relation between the Cholas and the Sailendras and
of both to China, during the period of nearly a century
(1035-1120 A.D.) of which a short historical sketch has been
given above, is referred to in Chola inscriptions and Chinese
documents. We give below a short summary of them be-
fore drawing any general conclusions.

1 V. A, Smith, Early History of India (3rd Ed.) pp. 467-8.

Google
a“ R. C, MAJUMDAR:

I. Chola Inscriptions

(a) The Perumber Ins. of Vira Rajendradeva’ dated in
his 7th year (A.D. 1068-69) states :—

' “Having conquered (the country of) Kadaram, (he) was
pleased to give (it) (back) to (its) king who worshipped (his)
feet (which bore) ankle-rings."”

(b) The small Tamil Leyden Grant* dated in the 20th
year of Kulottunga Chola (1089-90 A.D.) says:—

“At the request of the king of Kidara communicated by
his envoys Rajavidyadhara Samanta and Abhiminottunga
Samanta, Kullottuiga exempted from taxes the village
granted to the Buddhist monastery called Sailendra-
Cadamanivarma-vihara (i.e. the one established by king
Cilamanivarman as referred to in the large Leyden Grant).

Il. Chinese Documents

The following account is given by Ma Twan Lin in res-
pect of an embassy from Pagan in A.D. 1106.2

(a) “The Emperor at first issued orders to accord them
the same reception and treat them in the same way as was
done in the case of the ambassadors of the Cholas (Chu-lien).
But the President of the Board of Rites observed as
follows :—The Chola is a vassal of San-fo-t'si. That is why
in the year hi-ning (A.D. 1068-1077) it was thought good
enough to write to the king of that country on a strong paper
with an envelope of plain silk. The king of Pagan om the
other hand is ruler of a grand kingdom.”

The History of the Sung dyn: gives the following
accounts of embassies from San-fo-

(b) In 1017 the king Ha-ch’i-su-wu-ch'a-
with a letter in golden characters and tribute.

1 South Ind. Ins., vol. Ill Past I. p. 202.

2. Arch. Suro. of South India, vol. IV, pp. 226 €.

3 D'Hervey and Saint Denys, Meridionaux, p. 586 quoted by
Coedés, BEFEO., XVIII, No. 6, p. 8 and Gerini Researches, pp. 624-25.

Google
STRUGGLE BETWEEN SAILENDRAS AND CHOLAS 8

they went back, an edict was issued addressed to their king
accompanied by various presents.’

(c) In 1028, the 8th month, the king Si-li-tich-hwa (Sri
Deva?) sent envoys to carry tribute. The custom was that
envoys from distant countries who brought tribute, got a
girdle adorned with gold and silver, but this time girdles en-
tirely of gold were given to them.?

(d) In 1067 an envoy, who was one of their high chiefs,
called Ti-hwa-ka-la, arrived in China. The little of “Great
General’ who supports obedience and cherishes renovation
was given to him and he was favoured with an imperial
edict.*

(e) During the period Ydan-fung (1078-1085) envoys
came from the country bringing silver, pearls............. The
letter they brought was first forwarded to the court from
Canton, where they waited until they were escorted to the
capital. The Emperor remembered that they had come very
far, he gave them liberal presents and then allowed them
to return.

The next year he gave them 64,000 strings of cash,
15,000 taels of silver and favoured the two envoys who had
come with honorary titles.‘

(f) In 1082 three envoys came to have an audience from
the emperor and brought golden lotus flowers etc. They all
received honorary titles according to their rank.*

(g) In 1083 three other envoys came, who all received
honorary titles according to their rank.*

1 Groeneveldt, Notes, p. 65. Ferrand restores the name of the king
os “Haji Sumatrabhiimi"—the king of Sumatra (JA., 11-XX, 1922, p. 19
and fn. (3).

2 Groeneveldt, Notes, pp. 65:66. Both Groeneveldt and Ferrand
UA., N-XX, 1922, p. 20) restore the name as Sri Deva.

3° Groeneveldt, Notes, p. 66. Both Groeneveldt and Ferrand (op. cit)
restore the name as ‘Deva Kala’, Coed’s suggests Divakara (BEFEO.,
XXII, p. 470).

4 Groeneveldt, Notes, p. 66,

5 Ibid. + 6 Ibid,

4

Google
% R. C. MAJUMDAR
(h) In the period Shau-Sheng (1094-97) they made their

appearance once again.’

Chola embassies to China

(i) According to Ma Twan Lin an embassy sent by Lo-
cha-lo-cha king of Chu-lien reached China in A.D, 1015.7
Gerini restores this name as Rajaraja, (the Great).?

() According to the Sung-Shih, two kings of Chu-lien
Shib-li-lo-cha-yin-to-lo-
5 »* in A.D, 1077. Prof.

S. K. Aiyangar has restored the first name as Sri-Rajendra
Chola.*

Now the fact that some time before A.D. 1068-9 Vira
Rajendra conquered Kadaram (I-a )shows that the country
had regained independence in the meanwhile. Even
Rajadhiraja, the immediate successor of Rajendra Chola
claimed conquest of Kadaram. It would thus appear that
for nearly half a century since 1024-5 when Rajendra Chola
first conquered the country, the struggle between the two
continued with varying degrees of success.

Even the restoration of the king of Kadara, after he ‘had
acknowledged the suzerainty of Vira Rajendra, does not
seem to have ended the struggle. On the one hand

} Kulottuiga Chola, the successor of Vira Rajendra, claims to

‘ have destroyed Kadaram, on the other hand the Chinese
represent the Chola power to be subordinate to Sri-vijaya
(Ia). This conflicting statement perhaps indicates the
continuance of the struggle, with alternate success and
reverse of both parties.

The embassy from Kadata to the Chola king in A.D.
1089.90 (I-b) seems to mark the beginning of a new era of
goodwill and friendship between the two states. But if the

1 Groeneveldt, Notes, p. 67.

2 Hervey and Saint Denys, Meridionaux, p. 574.
3 Gerini, Researches, p. 609 f.n, 2.

4 JRAS., 18%, p. 490 En.

5 Journ. of Ind. Hist., vol. Il. p. 353.

Google
STRUGGLE BETWEEN SAILENDRAS AND CHOLAS a

Chinese statement that “Chola is a vassal of San-fo-t'si” be
true of the year 1106 when it was recorded, it would again
indicate the resumption of a hostile relation between the two.

On the whole, it would be safe to assume that in spite
of the arduous nature of the task, the Chola emperors tried
to maintain their hold on the distant over-sea empire, at
least for nearly s century. It would be too much to assume
that they could hope to exercise a rigid control over the dis-
tant land. The utmost they could fairly expect was to have
their suzerainty acknowledged by the king of Kadara. The
latter must have seized every possible opportunity to shake
off even this amount of control. On the other hand the Chola
emperors were unwilling to give up altogether their preten-
sions of suzerainty, and able monarchs like Vira Rajendra
and Kulottuiga would occasionally fit out a naval expedi-
tion to re-establish their authority beyond the sea.

In spite of the claims of the Cholas to have destroyed |
Kadaram, that kingdom never ceased to function as al
separate state. This is proved by the regular despatch of
embassies to the court of China throughout the eleventh
century A.D, (Il. b-h.).

The embassy of 1017 was sent by a king, whose Chinese
name has been restored by Ferrand as Haji-Suvarnabhimi or
king of Suvarpabbimi (II-b). It must be regarded as some
what unusual that this general term is substituted for the
proper name of the king which was used in case of the two
immediately preceding embasies.

The next embassy was sent in A.D, 1028 by a king
whose name seems to correspond to Sri-Deva (lI-c). The
Chola emperor must have conquered Kadara shortly before
thie date, and it may be presumed that this Sri-Deva refers
to him or to his viceroy. It is to be noted that the Chinese
emperor showed unusual honours to the envoy. This is per-
haps due to the mighty fame of Rajendra Chola, who himself
sent an envoy to the Chinese court, five years later (II-i).

The envoy who visited the imperial court in 1067 A.D.
is called Ti-hwa-ka-la (II-d) and is described as a high digni-
tary. It is interesting to note that the Chola king who sent

Google
88 R. C. MAJUMDAR

an embassy to China 0 years later was also called Ti-wa-ka-
lo, (II-j). Now, this Chola king is undoubtedly Rajendra
Deva-Kulottunga, and the Chinese name was made up of its
second and third parts (Deva-Kulo)."

It is not impossible that this Kulottuiga was also the
envoy, a high dignitary, who visited the imperial court in
1067 A.D. The history of the early years of Kulottunga lends
support to this view. He was the daughter's son of Rajen-
dra Chola, and his father was the Viceroy of Vengi. But
when his father died in c. A.D. 1061-2, he did not succeed
him, and indeed his position about that period is a mystery.
Prof. S. K, Aiyangar writes: “‘One would naturally expect
this Rajendra (Kulottufga) to succeed his father, when he
died in 1061-62 or the next year. In all the transactions
about the appointment of Vijayaditya VII as Viceroy of
engi we do not hear of the name of Kulottuiga.""?

Then, again, the early inscriptions of Kulottufga affirm
that he “gently raised, without wearying (her) in the least,
the lotus-like goddess of the earth residing in the region of
the rising sun.” Prof. S. K. Aiyangar, although unaware of
the identity of the two names Ti-wa-ka-lo (the Chola king)
and Ti-hwa-ka-la, the envoy of ijaya, remarked as
follows on the above inscription. ‘This land of the rising
aun cannot well be the country of Vengi and if the conquest

of Burmah (sic) by Rajendra I is accepted, as it must now
be, this would only mean that Rajendra Kulottuhga dis-

tinguished himself as a prince in the eastem exploits of his
grandfather, either during Rajendra Chola’s reign or under
Vira Rajendra when he reconquered Kadaram."’*

For ‘Burmah’ in the above passage we must, cf course,
read Kadaram. Now, since Kulottunga ruled till 1119 A.D.

1 This identification was proposed by Prof. 3. K. Aiyangar (Journ.
of Ind. Hist., 11-353). 1 am also indebted to him for the information,
based on Tamil inscriptions, that both Rajédhirgja and Kulottuiga
claimed conquest of Kadaram.

2 Ancient India, p. 129.

3 Ibid, pp. 130-31,

Google
STRUGGLE BETWEEN SAILENDRAS AND CHOLAS CJ

it is impossible to believe that he was old enough in A.D.
1024-5 to accompany his grandfather Rajendra Chola. The
reference is therefore possibly to the expedition of Vira
Rajendra which took place some time before A.D.
1068-9 (I-a). This fits in with the date of the embassy
in A.D. 1067.

If this view be correct, we must hold that Vira Rajen-
dra’s conquest has an effective one, and for some time at
least the Cholas definitely occupied the kingdom of Kadara.
Kulottunga evidently held a very high position in the con-
quered province and possibly paid a visit to China as an
ambassador from Kadara with a view to establish a friendly
relation with that power.

Kulottuhga must have returned to India shortly after,
as he ascended the Chola throne in 1070 A.D., and the
Perumbar Ins. (I-a) indicates that before doing so, he re-
installed the king of Kadara after he had paid homage and
fealty to the Chola emperor.’

Once back in his country Kulottuiga was faced with »
grave political crisis, as noted above. Evidently the king of
Kadara took advantage of this to free himself from the yoke
of the Cholas. Possibly he came out successful in some
engagement with the Cholas and pretended to have estab-
lished his suzerainty over the latter. The Chinese who got
their information from San-fo-t'si were thus misled into the
belief that Chola was a vassal of Sri-vijaya (Il-a). Otherwise
ii impossible to believe, in the absence of any positive
evidence, that the king of Kadara could have established
any sort of claim over the empire of the Cholas.

The successive embassies in 1078, 1083 and 1094 indi-
cate that after the storm of the Chola invasion had blown
over, Kadara resumed its normal relationship with the
Chinese court.

1 In addition to what is contained in the following foot-note about
the grandson of Raja Suran (Chola) the stories of the Chola conquest
of Malaya occur in other legends (cf. Journal of the Malay Branch of
the Royal Asiatic Society, 1926, p. 413 1932 pp.1 &).

Google
» R. C. MAJUMDAR

The political supremacy of the Cholas in the Far East

for a period extending over a century is perhaps echoed
} in the Malayan tradition about the mythical expedition of
\ Raja Suran [Chola?] down the peninsula.’ In any case it
is positively indicated by some records in Sumatra. A Tamil
inscription has been discovered at Lobu Tua near Baros in
Sumatra. It is dated in 1088 A.D. and refers to the organi-
sation, activities and mythological beliefs of a corporation of
Fifteen Hundred.? There is no doubt that this was a Tamil

\ corporation of the type of Banafija, Nanadegi, Valangai,
\ Idavigai etc. whose activities as trade unions, are frequently
‘yeferred to in South-Indian records. According to an ins-
cription found at Baligami in the Mysore state, the members
of these unions were “‘brave men, bom to wander over many
countries ever since the beginning of the Kyita age, penetrat-
ing regions of the six continents by land and water-routes
and dealing in various articles such as horses and elephants,
precious stones, perfumes and drugs, either wholesale or
in retail.‘ It may be noted here that a Vaignava Temple

Another inscription at Porlak Dolok in Padang Lawas, —

and dated probably in A.D. 1245, is partly in Kavi
Script and partly in Indian, probably South-Indian alphabet."
A third inscription at Bandar Bapahat belonging to the Maja-

1 A. grandson of Suran is also said to have founded Singapore.
The story is given in full in Sejarah Malaya. Tales of friendly corres-
pondence between Malayan and Indian kings may also: be attributed
to the relations of Cholas with Malayasia. ‘This point was first noted
by Blagden (Journ. Str. Br. R. A. S., No. 81, p. 26).

2 Oudh. Vera, 1914, pp. 113. Not. Bat. Gen., 1992, p. 80. The
inscription has been translated into English by Prof. K. A. N. Sastri in
TBG., vol. 72 (1932) pp. 314 f.

) 3 CER, C. Majumdar, Corporate Life in Ancient India, 2nd. Edition
0 pp. 87.96.
74 Epigraphia Carnatica, vol. Vil, 3. 118, ——
— 5 Epigraphia Indica, vol. Vil, p. 107. —
6 Oudh. Versl., 1914, p. 112, 1920, p. 70.

Google
ORIGIN OF THE SAILENDRAS OF INDONESIA ”

pahit period, is written in Kavi and then reproduced in
South-Indian Grantha character."

In addition to these records, the intimate intercourse
between South India and Sumatra is further indicated by
some existing Sumatran clan-names, such as Choliya,
Pandiya, Meliyala, Pelawi, which may be easily identified
with the Chola, Pandya, Malayalam and Palla Another
name Tekang is probably derived from Tekkanam, the gene-
ral Tamil term for south i.e, South India.”

It is, of course, impossible to say when these South-
Indian names were introduced into Sumatra. In view of the
political and trade relations between the two countries in
the eleventh century A.D. the large influx of South-Indian
people and the consequent introduction of these tribal names
may be referred to that period. Of course, with the evidence
available at present, it is difficult to determine whether the
more peaceful trade-relations preceded or succeeded the
political relations between the two countries. In the modern
age we can easily quote examples of either. In many cases,
the commercial intercourse has led to political interference,
and in many others, political supremacy over a foreign land
has led to an intense development of trade of the conquering
country. Whether the traders and merchants of South India
paved the way for the over-sea conquest of the Chola kings,
or whether the process was just the reverse of this, the future
historian alone will be able to tell.

1 Oudh. Versl., 1912, p. 46.
2 TBG., vol. 45. (1902) pp. 541-576, Kem. VG., vol. Il. (1915)
pp. 67-72.

Google
Indian Colonisation in Sumatra before the
Seventh Century
By Dr. J. Przyluski

“It is almost a current opinion” says Ferrand, ‘‘that
Java has been the focus and centre of the expansion of
Indian civilisation in Indonesia. It seems, on the con-
trary, that we should give the credit of this expansion
to the Sumatran empire of Srivijaya.""' As Ferrand’
has suggested, we may distinguish in the history of
Sumatra an early period anterior to the progress of the
kingdom of Srivijays This period extends from the
beginning of the Christian era to the year 644, the date
of the sending of the first embassy to the court of China
from the Sumatran country of Malayu. It is with this
ancient period that we are now concerned.

oe

Before the seventh century, the interpretation of texts is
impeded by the inaccuracy of geographic nomenclature.

The Chinese pilgrim Fa-hien, on his return from India,
by way of Ceylon, arrived at a country which he calls
Ye-p'o-t'i, that is to say Yavadvipa. The Ramayana also
mentions Yavadvipa of which Ptolemy makes labadiu.
What is the value of this geographical name ?

The majority of authors, Kern, Sylvain Lévi and others,
admit that Yavadvipa designates the island of Java.
Ferrand makes the objection that the Yavadvipa of Indian
literature and the Iabadiu of Ptolemy have this common
characteristic of being a country rich in gold, a character-

1 G, Ferrand, L'Empire sumatranais de Srivijaya, p. 3. Bibliographic
pp. 1-2, The historical importance of the empire of Srivijaya has been
discovered by Coed’s; cf. Le royaume de Srivijaya, BEFEO, t. XVIII
no 6

2 Ibid, p. 145.

Google
INDIAN COLONISATION IN SUMATRA 93

istic of Sumatra, not of Java. Ferrand, therefore, concludes'
that Yavadvipa designates Sumatra, not Java."

Other authors are less positive. With regard to the
Ye-p'o-t'i of Fa-hien, Beal gives the definition ‘Java or,
perhaps, Sumatra."” In 132 A. D., the king of a country
which is called in Chinese Ye-tiao (ancient pronunciation
*Yap-div) sent an embassy to the court of China. M.
Pelliot, who has recognized in* Yap-div the name Yavadvipa,
nevertheless observes: ‘‘In proposing to find
Yavadvipa in Ye-tiao, [ naturally do not wish to say that I
feel obliged to see in it Java rather than Sumatra ; for me
it corresponds to the name given by Ptolemy and that is
all.""* This prudence is justified. The most ancient
travellers did not make a clear distinction between the
islands of Java and Sumatra. These two great islands
formed the continent of Yava, either because the strait
which separates them was for a long time ignored, or
because no great importance was attached to it. For us,
New Zealand is a whole although it is composed of two
islands. We are not at liberty to affirm either with Kern
that Yava is Java or with Ferrand that Yava is not Java
but Sumatra. Probably for Ptolemy and for all the ancient
geographers Yava is Java-Sumatra.

The persistence of this ancient notion explains the
fact that during the Middle Ages, when Java and Sumatra
were no longer confused, they were still given the same
name. For Marco Polo and later geographers that which
we call Java is Java Minor, while Sumatra is Java Major.
The ancient Yava has become an archipelago.

ate

In the accounts of Arabian travellers Sumutra or
Sumutra designates a port, a kingdom or the island of
Sumatra as a whole.’ In a panegyric in Old Javanese

1 Ferrand, ibid., p. 153.

2 Deux itinéraires de Chine en Inde a la fin.da Villme sidcle,
BEFEO, t. IV p. 258, n. 2.

3 Ferrand, ibid., pp. 8081, 91-95.

5

Google
ca] J. PRZYLUSKI

with the date of 1365 A.D. entitled Nagarakrtagama,
the country which the Arabs called Sumutra and which
is found on the North-East coast of the island, is called
Samudra.’ It seems at first sight that Sumatra, Sumutra
may be corruptions of Samudra, a Sanskrit word which
means “‘ocean,”” and this is the opinion of a certain number
of authors. ‘That Samudra, Sumatra signifies the island
of the ocean” says Rouffaer? “and is to be identified
with the city of Samudra on the river of Pasei on the
Eastern coast of Aceh, is a fact which is accepted by
almost everyone.” But G. Ferrand has objected that it
has not been proved that a definite island has been called
*Samudradvipa, “island of the sea," nor has this strange
toponym designated the whole island or the northern
part of Sumatra.’

‘The question has been brought up again by Rouffaer
with regard to aking of San-fo-te'i, designated in Chinese
by Hia-tch’e Sou-wou-tch'a-p’ou-mi (*Hagi Sumatrabhimi).
The Dutch scholar explains this title as follows: ‘a King of
the country of Samudra, that is of the country of the sea,
that is of the country of Tasik (in Malay “‘sea"), Temasik,
Tumasik (forms with an infix of Tasik), otherwise said
of the island of Singapore.‘ But G. Ferrand has per-
sisted in his objection: ‘How can the island of Singa-
pore” he aske, be called ‘country of the ocean” ?
This toponym is as impossible as the preceding one: a
definite island can no more be called “Ocean” than “Land
of the ocean”, especially when ie applied to the
North-East of Sumatra and “Land of the ocean” to
the island of Singapore."”*

The objection of G. Ferrand is not perhaps decisive.

1 Canto 13, p. 50; ef. canto 41, p. 105 and canto 42, p. 107.

2 Ferrand, p. 19, n. 3.

3° Bijdragen t. T. L. en Volkenkunde v. Nederlansh-Indié, deel 74,
1918, p. 138.

4 Bijdragen t. T. L. en V. deel 77, p. 75.

5 L'empire sumatranais de Srivijeye, p. 19 n. 3.

Google
INDIAN COLONISATION IN SUMATRA %

The 213th and 463rd stories of the Pali Jataka begin
with these words: ‘Formerly King Bharu reigned in the
kingdom of Bharu”. Now bharu is a word which signi-
fies ‘sea’ and the same word is contained in the name
of the city and of the region of Bharukaccha. It is then
not impossible that an Indian word signifying “‘sea,
ocean” may have been used to designate a city, a
kingdom and by extension a large island. Upon a closer.
investigation, the conjecture appears more probable.

Ihave shown elsewhere that bharu is an Indian word
of Non-Aryan origin and that it should be connected
with the Malay baroh “low ground, sea-coast, sea."?
In the dialects of the Malay Peninsula we find baruh
“lai flat country", baruk, barok “shore” and béruh

“‘sea’’. The same name is found frequently in the geo-
graphic nomenclature of the Malay country. We read in
the “‘Journey of the Arab merchant Sulayman in India
and in China,” written in 851: ‘From Langabalts
(Nicobar islands), the ships then sail to come toa place
called Kalah-bér (the port of Krah on the Malay Penin-
sula). This same name bar is given to both a kingdom
and a sea-coast.”"? It is then no exaggeration to seek
in a form béruh, bér the equivalent of the Indian kingdom
of Bharu.

We may now explain the mention in the Nagarakrta-
gama of a country called Samudra situated on the North-
east coast of Sumatra. Samudra is probably the Sans-
krit translation of a local name signifying ‘‘sea”. We
suppose that this name may have been extended to the
whole island and, as foreign names are often deformed
when they pass from one language to another, Samudra
might easily have been pronounced *Sumadra, Sumatra,
Sumutra by the Chinese and Arabian navigators.

In short, Yavadipa designed primarily Java-Sumatra.
When they wished to distinguish between the two

1 Bulletin de la Société de Linguistique, XXX, fase. 2, p. 197 seq.
2 Trane, G. Ferrand, in Les Classiques de Orient, p. 41.

Google
% J. PRZYLUSKI -

islands, they called the one where they first reached
land by the name of one of its ports situated in the
north. ‘To go to Samudra’’ meant that they went to
the larger island in opposition to the smaller one which

alone kept the name of Java.
. . . . .

In the Chinese history of the Ming dynasty, the account
of the San-fo-ts'i begins as follows

“San-fo-ts'i formerly called Kan-t'o-li, for the first time
sent envoys with tribute in the reign of the emperor
Hiao-Wou of the former Song dynasty (454-464) ; during
the reign of the emperor Wou of the Liang dynasty
(502-549) they came repeatedly and in the time of the
second Song dynasty (960-1279) they brought tribute
without interruption.""* .

The Chinese history of the Liang dynasty provides
the following facts concerning the Sumatran country of
Kan-t'o-li:*

“The country of Kan-t'o-li is situated on an island in
the soythern sea; its customs and manners are about the
same as those of Fou-nan and Lin-yi. It produces cloth of
variegated colours, cotton and areca-nuts, these last
being of excellent quality and better than those of any
other country.

“In the reign of the emperor Hiao-Wou of the Song
dynasty (454-464), the king of the country, Che-p'o-lo-na-
lien-t'o (Srivara-narendra) sent a high official of the name
Tchou Lieou-t'o (Rudra, the Indian), to present valuable
articles of gold and silver.

“In the year 502, the king K'iu-tan Sieou-po-t'o-lo
(Gautama Subhadra) dreamt on the eighth day of the fourth
month that he saw a Buddhist priest who said to him :
“China has now aholy ruler and after ten years more the

1 Cf. Groeneveldt, Notes on the Malay Archipelago and Malacca,
p. 68; G. Ferrand, Srivijeya, p. 24.

2. Cf. Groeneveldt, p. 60 seq., comected by Pallict, Deux
itinéraires, pp. 187, n. 4 and 392 and by Ferrand, Sricijeya, pp. 264-265.

Google
INDIAN COLONISATION IN SUMATRA. 7

law of Buddha will greatly increase ; if you send messengers
to carry tribute and show your reverence, your country will
be prosperous and happy, and the foreign merchants will
visit it in numbers increased a hundred-fold. If you do
not believe what I say, your country will not enjoy
peace.” The king, at first, could not believe this, but
some time afterwards he saw again the priest in a dream,
saying to him: “‘As you do not believe me, I must bring
you there and make you see the Emperor.” He then
went to China in his dream and had an audience with the
emperor. When he awoke he was greatly astonished, and
as he was a skilful painter, he made a picture of the
emperor's face as he had seen it in his dream, adorning it
with various colours. He then sent an envoy, accom-
panied by a painter, to carry a letter to the emperor and
Present precious stones and other things. When the
envoys had arrived, they made a picture of the emperor
which they took home to their country and, comparing
it with the original drawing, it was found to be exactly
the same. The king now mounted this picture on a
precious frame and honoured it more and more
every day.

“Some time after the king died and his son P'i-ye-
po-mo (Vijayavarman ?) came to the throne. In 519 he
tent a high official, called Pi-yuan-po-mo (Vi......varman)
to present a letter of the following contents: “To the ever
victorious emperor......"°

In the year 520 the same king sent
present as tribute products of his country.

This text reveals that in the middle of the 6th century
that part of Sumatra which the History of the Liang calls
Kan-t'o-li, was ruled by aking who bore a Sanskrit name.
This fact alone proves clearly that the Indian civilisation
had been implanted in this country.

As for the religion which was there in practice, an
examination of proper names will give us some informa-
tion. The name of the royal envoy Tchou Lieou-t'o,

‘in an envoy to

Google
8 J. PRZYLUSKI

Rudra, the Indian, seems to show that the king favoured
Sivaite religion, while the name of the king, his successor,
Gautama Subhadra, sis rather inspired by Buddhism.
Buddhism then must have made great progress at the
court of Kan-+t'o-li towards the beginning of the
sixth century.

This conclusion is confirmed by the History of the Liang
which, in a story legendary but not without ificance,
shows us the king of Kan-t'o-li receiving in a dream the
visit of a Buddhist monk. In the Chinese version, this
legend was evidently intended to flatter and glorify the
emperor of China and Ma Touan-lin himself was already
aware of this purpose." But this story is related to a
series of other stories where we find a king being
converted to Buddhism under similar conditions. Accord-
ing to an erroneous tradition which has been widely spread
in China, Buddhism was introduced into that country by
the emperor Ming of the second Han dynasty as the con-
sequence of a dream where this sovereign beheld a
supernatural apparition. The emperor then despatched an
embassy charged to bring back some Buddhist monks.”

The biography of Gunavarman contains a similar
episode: “This religious man belonged to the royal family
of Ki-pin (Cashmere). When he was thirty years old, the
king of Cashmere having died without children. they wished
to put him on the throne, but he refused and left for Ceylon,
where he dwelt in a village called Kie-po-li. Then he
went into the kingdom of Ché-p'o. The night before his
arrival, the mother of the king saw in a dream a religious
man who entered the kingdom upon a flying junk. In the
moming Gunavarman arrived, and the queen-mother,
convinced by her dream, was converted to Buddhism. She
exerted her influence over her son so that he should

1 Cf. Wen hien trong kao, trans, Hervey de SaintDenys,
Méridionaux, pp. 451-454.

2H. Maspero, Le songe et lambassade de lempereur Ming,
BEFEO, 1910, p. 95.

Google
INDIAN COLONISATION IN SUMATRA ”

imitate her; she succeeded in persuading him. The kingdom
having been invaded by enemies, the king asked Gunavar-
man if it was not contrary to the law of religion to strive
inst them ; Gunavarman replied that it was a duty ro
chastise brigands; the king, therefore, started off to fight and
won a victory, Little by little Buddhism spread through-
out the kingdom, and the king who wished to enter
the religious life, would not renounce his project at the
entreaties of hie ministers, except upon the condition that
throughout the whole kingdom no one shouldbe put to death.
The renown of Gunavarman spread far and wide ; in 424,
Chinese monks requested the emperor to invite Gupavarman
to come to China; messengers for this purpose were sent to
Gunavarman and to the king of Ché-p'o, p'o-to-kia. At that
moment Gunavarman embarked or had embarked in order to
go to Lin-yi (Champa) in the ship of the merchant Tchou Nan-
ti (Nandin the Indian) ; when the wind was favourable, he
arrived at Canton. He reached Nankin in 431 and must
have died a few months later, at the age, as the Chinese
reckon, of 65 years
When the biographer of Gunavarman speaks of Ché-
P’o, it is impossible to know exactly what part of Yavadvipa
he has in mind. Let us only notice the analogy of
these pious stories intended to explain retrospectively
the introduction of Buddhism in China, in Ché-p'o and
in Kan-t'o-li.
Without exaggerating the chronological accuracy of
these stories, we may, thanks to them, follow the pro-
In 413, Fa-hien finds in Yavadvipa
‘that itis not worth while to mention
later, Gunavarman converts the
queen-mother of the “‘kingdom of Ché-p'o."’ In the begin-
ning of the sixth century, the king of Kan-t'o-li was con-
verted. Finally when, in 671-672, the pilgrim Yi-tsing
stops at Srivijaya, he is amazed at the number and at

1 Pelliot, Deux itinéraires, pp. 264-5.
2 Legge, Fa-hien, p. 113.

Google
100 J. PRZYLUSKI

the learning of the Buddhist priests, studies the ‘‘science
of sounds’, and advises his compatriots who may wish
to travel to India to make in Srivijaya a sojourn of a
year or two, in order to prepare themselves there to
read the original Buddhist texts."

In short, it is probably between 414 and the first
decades of the sixth century that Buddhism spread through
the principal states of Indonesia. And it is at this same
period that Buddhism made a decisive progress in China
under the Wei and the Liang. The sixth century
great period in the history of the expansion of Indian
ideas and of the intercourse by sea between the peoples
of Asia.

What is exactly the country that the History of the
Liang calls Kan-t'o-li? The History of the Ming identi-
fies this kingdom with that of Palembang, at the South-
East of Sumatra. But this identification may not be accepted
without proof.

Kan-t'o-li seems to be the Chinese transcription of an
original *Kandari or *Kandali. Now M. Ferrand has
drawn our attention to a passage of the Hawiya of Ibn
Majid, with the date of 1462, where the port of Sinkel
on the North-East coast of Sumatra is called Sinkil Kandari.
According to M. Ferrand this expression must mean
Sinkel of the country of Kandar,or Sinkel (of the country
of) Kandari, and Kandari would designate the whole
island of Suma\

But as there is no proof that the large island
was ever called by this name, we may be sceptical as
to the possibility of reaching a final decision.

Let us consider Kan-t’o-li from another point of view.
These three syllables may transcribe an original
*Kandali. Now in Sanskrit Kandali or Kadaliis the name
of the banana tree. We know that in India, Indo-

1 Takakusu, Record, pp. XXXIV and XL-XLI.
2 Le K’ouen-locen, JA., 1919, pp. 266-7 of the reprint.

Google
INDIAN COLONISATION IN SUMATRA 101

China and especially in Indonesia many names of places
and of peoples have been borrowed from the local
flora.’ Kandali might be a name in the same cate-
gory as malaka, madjapahit, etc.

Let us not conclude too hastily that Kandali is the
Sanskrit translation of a Malay word such as pisang,
“banana tree". | have shown elsewhere that Kadali,
Kandali are not originally Aryan words, but have been
borrowed from the Non-Aryan languages of India.”
Just as in the Malay Peninsula, we find beside the Malay
pisang, the Sakai or Semang names of the banana tree,
such as kelui, kle, telui, etc-, so in the island of Sumatra,
in the 5th century, the banana tree may have had a variety
of names, and it is not impossible that the Chinese kan-t'o-li
is the transcription of an indigenous word.

This conjecture has at least the advantage of explaining
the rapid disappearance of the name that the Chinese
chroniclers have written Kan-t’o-li. If Kandali was
originally the indigenous name of a great kingdom, it was
doomed to disappear before a nobler form such as Srivijaya
or Samudra.

1 Cf. Ferrand, Malaka, le Malaya et Melayur, JA., 1918, p. 156 of
the reprint; and cf. Notes on Names of Ploces in the Island of Singopore
and its Vicinity Journal of the Straits Branch of the RAS., n, 50.
pp. 7682).

2 CE Pre-aryan and pre-dravidian in Indio, pp. 45.

6

Google
An old-Javanese loan-record
of the Saka year 833
By Himansu Bhusan Sarkar

The early inscriptions of Java are principally records
of free gift of lands to temples, variously known as
mahdprasada, prasada kabhaktyan, patapan, sima kabiku-
an, dharmmaérama, kahyangan, etc., between which the
exact points of difference are not known. The present
copper-plate derived from an unknown region is wholly of a
different character. It differs from other records not only
in the opening line, which usually begins with ‘‘svasti
Sakavarsafita’’ and sometimes ( e.g., O.J.0 Nos. XIX,XXX,
XXXVI, etc.) with “om avighnam astu’’, but also in its
total absence of curse-formulas, which are distinctive
features of early Javanese records in kawi. The record
under review moreover presupposes the existence of a
custom that the repayment of debts necessitated the
drawing up of a supplementary document. Dr. Brandes
took a very brief notice of it in the Notulen for 1896 (p. 53)
where however the size of this plate was not stated. It
bears the number XXIX in Brandes-Krom, Oudjavaansche
oorkonden from which | edit the text, adding an original
translation and diacritical marks.

TEXT
Front-side
1, Saka 833 Phalgupamasa dvitiya krsnapakea, ma,

2. wa, &, wara, kalani banawi sumahur hutang sang bapa
i mpu guru

3, dhaya, panahurnya mas su 16 ma 10 ku 2 ha 5
tumangga

Google
AN OLD-JAVANESE LOAN-RECORD 103

4, ppikang mas pu lati bapani bayal anag wanwai wuru

tunggal

tutuganning tanda muang pu wijah bapani bhimi anag
wanwa i wuru tu

nggal, guddha hutang ni banawi i mpu guru dhaya,
tatra sikel sang tgu

7. hhan anag wanwa i pilang watak panggil hyang, sang

Bai

(who is ) «.

Elsewhere the term has also been used in the sense of ‘Minister,"

ete.

g wa

ckeside

nwai walakaé watak walakas sang bhaskara anag
wanwa i waleng

watak waleng, sang pakambangan anag wanwa i
tangga watak hino

sang ratirang anag wanwa i limo watak pagar wei,
likhitapatra

rake pilang

TRANSLATION

The Saka year 833, the month of Phalguna, the second
day of the dark half of the month, mahulu.?

wage’ Sunday. That is the time when Banawi paid
back the debts of (his) father to Mpu Gurudhaya.

His repayment was (equal to) mas su 16 ma 10 ku 2
ha 5. This gold was received by

Mpu Lati Bapani Bayal? (who is) the anag wanwa
(lit. native) of Wuru tunggal,

the tutugan® of the tanda‘ and Mpu Wijah Bapani
Bhimi* (who is) anag wanwa of Wuru

1 Indonesian days of six and five-day week respectively.

2 Another interpretation is possible, viz, ‘*...Mpu Lati, father of Bayal
ete.

3 Apparently a petty official.

4 Subordinate officer. In the Nagarakr., (85/1) he is a chief officer.

“Elder,”

5 Another interpretation, similar to that of note 3 above, is possible.

Google
104 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR
6. tunggal. Cleared off is the debt of Banawi to Mpu
Gurudhayaé. Witnesses thereof are the worthy
Tégubhan,
7. (who is) anag wanwa of Pilang watak Panggil hyang,
the worthy......anag wan
Back-side
1. wa of Walakas watak Walakas, the worthy Bhaskara
(who is) anag wanwa of Waleng
2. watak Waleng, the worthy Pakambangan (who is) the
anag wanwa of Tangga watak Hino,
3. the worthy Ratirang (who is) the anag wanwa of Limo
watak Pagar wesi. (This is) written by
4. rake Pilang

Google
The term SUnyata and its different
interpretations
(Based chiefly on Tibetan sources)

By Dr. E. Obermiller

In the Haraprasad Memorial Number of the Indian
Historical Quarterly 1 have made an attempt to give an
interpretation of the 20 aspects of the principle of sdnyata,
as analysed by Haribhadra in his Abhisamayalamkara-
loka with references to the Paficaviméatisahasrika-prajfia-
paramita-sitra and explanations derived from Tibetan sources.
{ have pointed to the fact that Haribhadra, as a represen-
tative of the Madhyamika school of the Buddhists,”
has interpreted the term Sdnyatd from the relativistic stand-
point acknowledged by all the Madhyamikes and has
examined all the 20 aspects in this sense.

It would be, however, insufficient if we were to take
into consideration only this meaning of the term. It is true
that the Madhyamika interpretation of Sinyatd in the sense
of Relativity is the most remarkable and showe an exceedingly
high degree of development of philosophical thought. The
term édnyatd, however, is not restricted to the Madhyamika
system alone; it is used by all the Buddhiet schools,
Hinayanistic as well as Mahayanistic. The aim of the

1 He belongs to the hybrid school of Yogicira-Madhyamika-
evitantrikas=tib, Rnal-hbyor-spyod-pahi Dba-marai-rgyud-pa, the founder
of which is Sintirakgita, The main characteristic of this school is that,
in maaintaining the common Madhyamika view of the unreality of all
the separate entities from the standpoint of the Absolute, it adheres to
‘an idealistic point of view as regards the Empirical World (samorti=kan-
rdzob), i.e. it denies the existence of eternal objects as being substantially
different from the consciousness perceiving them. In this it falls in
line with the Yogicira-vijfamavadins, and this is the reason why it
receives the name of Yogicira-Madhyamika,

Google
106 E, OBERMILLER

present study is to give a summary exposition of the different
conceptions of Sdnyatd within the pale of Buddhism, to show
the different meanings which have been attached to the term
by the different Buddhist schools. Here, as in so many
similar cases, the Tibetan exegetical literature, with its
masterly systematization of the main subjects of Buddhist
philosophy, comes to our assistance. The great Ts of-
kha-pa, in his Legs-bsad-gser-phren, the celebrated
commentary on the Abhisamayalamkara’ gives us a short but
very clear review of the different interpretations of Sanyata
adopted by the representatives of Hinayana and Mahayana
Buddhism. This review has been taken by us as a founda-
tion for the present study. We have here again an occasion
of ascertaining the importance of the Tibetan scientific
tradition for a correct understanding of the conceptions of
Indian Buddhist thought.

But before we begin our investigation in accordance with
the manual of Tsomi-kha-pa, we must make one general
remark. Prof. Th. Stcherbatsky in his “‘Conception of
Buddhist Nirvana” (p. 43) lays a particular stress upon the
fact that the term Siinyatd never had the meaning of a void
or of simply non-existence. Sinya does not mean “void” in
the sense that the object thus designated is to be viewed
as Non-ens (abhava); it designates the fact of being “devoid”
of a certain substance, essence, or quality which is considered
to be erroneously attributed to the said item. This will be
correct not only with regard to the Madhyamika point of
view; it has the same meaning with all the other Buddhist
schools likewise. The difference consists in (1) the character
of the items which are declared to be “devoid’’ of a super-
imposed substance or quality or, to speak in the language
of the Tib. manuals, “the substratum or understructure
of devoidness" (stor-géi) and (2) in the character of the very

1 On the importance of this commentary see the Introduction of
Prof. Th. Stcherbatsky to our edition of the Abhisam. in the Bibliotheca
Baddhica p. IX, my Introduction to the transl. of the Uttaratantra, p. 96,
and “The Doctrine of Prajfia-para1 "ete. p. 2 and Analysis of the
Abhisam. p. Vil.

Google
SONYATA AND ITS DIFFERENT INTERPRETATIONS — 107

essence, substance, or quality of which the said items are
“devoid”.

Tson-kha-pa [Gser. 1. 30!a. 2, Labran edition] begins
his analysis with the demonstration of the views of the
Hinayanists (Vaibhagikas and Sautrantikas) whom he
simply calls “‘the realists (don-smra=artha-vadinah, i.e.
bahya-artha-vadinah). According to them “‘the under-
structure of devoidness” (ston-géi) are the elements of
existence (dharma), as classified into the 5 groups (skandha=
phur-po), the 18 component elements of an individual
(dhatu=khams), and the 12 bases of cognition (ayatana=
skye-mched). The object of negation, i.e. that of which the
said elements are regarded to be devoid, is the individual
Ego (atman=bdag) as an enduring and indivisible substance,
such as the Brahmanists imagine it to be.' Thus the
individual Ego is denied, it does not exist. But that which
is devoid of this Ego does exist. There are the separate
elements, classified ae they are into groups, component
elements and bases of cognition, or from the standpoint of
the four Truths of the saint (catvarydrya-satyani= hphags pahi
bden-pa bii). We have here the following quotations :

a, from the Sutras: —

“Here (such items as) an Ego and a living being (as a
unity) do not exist. There are the (separate) elements,
which appear obeying the causal laws.

b. from the Bodhicitta-vivarana? :—

“The (5) groups, the (18) component elements etc. have
been demonstrated in order to put an end to the conception
of a (real) Ego." —

c. from Asanga's Abhidharma-samuccaya;* this is
beyond doubt the most pregnant :—

“It is asked): How are we to explain the term éinya—
“devoid” ? (Answer) :—If with a certain item something does

1 Me-stege-byed-kyia kun-briags-pahi rlag-pa dan gcig-puhi gai-sag-
i bdag=firthakgraih partkalpito nitya ckas ca pudgalasya atma.

2 Tangyur, Rgyud (Tantra) vol. XXXII.

3° Aga Monastery (Transbaikalian) edition, fol. 44a. 4-b. I.

Google
108 E, OBERMILLER

not exist, the said item is cognized as being ‘devoid’ of this
something. On the contrary that which remains existing with
the said item is to be cognized as always existing with it.’
Now what is it that does not exiet? (Answer) :—With (the
elements as classified into the (5) groupe, the (18) component
elements and the (12) bases of cognition an eternal
persistent indestructible substratum, an Ego or something
relating to such does not exist.—What is there in such a case
that remains existing? (Answer) :—The Ego as has just been
said, does not exist, but that which is devoid of the Ego
(i.e. the separate elements), they do exist. In such a sense
we have to understand the meaning of éanyata (“‘devoidness””
as the absence or unreality of the Ego with the elements of
existence). And in the Sugatamatavibhanga of Jetari?
the point of view of the realists is put forth as follows :—

All the conditioned (samskrta) elements are momentary.
They are devoid of the Ego and have no creator.—In the
Mahayana this aspect of sinyata is usually designated as
pudgala-nairatmya, the unreality of the individual Ego; it is a
common tenet of Hinayana and Mahayana Buddhism. Thus
the individual Ego is regarded as “‘void by itself" (ran-ston),
i.e. non-existing. The separate elements as classified into the
5 groups etc., on the contrary, are not “void by themselves";
they have a real existence, but they are devoid of a subetance
other then themselves, viz. of the individual Ego.*

On the different points of view of the Hinayanists regard-
ing the individual (pudgala=gar-zag), we have here a
quotation from Bhavaviveka'’s Tarkajuala':—Of
these (i.e. of the 18 sects), the 8 indicated firet, viz. the

1 The same as in Bodhisattoa-bhmi, od. Wogihera, p. 47.
gaa a wate ota yrafafe aque | aegaearafirs wate oea-

Farereshifes errege srarerfet |
2 Tg. MDO. CXXVIIL

3 ABhis.dloks, GOS, p. 124. GOAQRET RERUTEATERE: |
4 Te. MDO. XIX,

Google
SONYATA AND ITS DIFFERENT INTERPRETATIONS — 109

Mahasanghikas' and the rest (i.e. the Vyavaharikas, Loko-
ttaravadins, Bahusrutiyas, Prajfiaptivadine, Caityakes, Parva-
éailas and Aparaéailas), as well as those indicated subse-
quently viz. the Sthaviras,’ the Sarvastivadins,’ the Bahulikes,¢
the Dharmottariyas,’ and the Kaéyapiyas* are those who
adhere to the non-Ego standpoint. According to them the Ego
and the “Mine” as imagined by the, heretics is “void” i.e.
non-existing, and all elements are devoid of a relation to the
Ego. The remaining 5 sects beginning with the Vatsiputriyas’
are the Pudgalavadins'—those who adhere to the conception
of a real individual. Thie individual, they say, is something
inexpressible, it is neither identical with the groups of ele-
ments nor is it something different from them.’ It is to be
cognized by the 6 kinds of conciousness, it is subjected to the
process of existence in the Samsara, and must finally become
purified. Here ends the part dedicated to the Hinayanists. It
is followed by the investigation of the Mahayanists’ concep-
tions of Sanyata. Tson-kha-pa begins with the theory of the
Yogacars j@navadins (Geer. I. 302a. 1.]. The school as we
know maintains that the source of all life represents a stream
of consciousness which, though real in itself, constructs an
unreal objective eternal world (abhata-parikalpa=yan-dag-
ma-yin kur-rtog)..° All the elements of existence in their
crude form, in their unutterable (anabhilapya=brjod-du-med-
pa) nature, are the component parts of this stream; they are
the moments of consciousness, the mind and its phenomena,
obeying the causal laws."' As such they represent the
causally dependent aspect of existence (para-

1 Dge-hdan-phal-chen-pa. 2 Gnas-brian-pa.
3 Thame-cad-yod-par-smra-ba. 4) Mai-ston-pa.

5 Chosmchog-pa. 6 Hod-eran-pa.

7 Gnas-me-ba. 8 Gai-rag-ta-emra-ba.
9 Conception of Buddhist Nirodna, p. 31, note 1.

10 Madhyanta-vibhanga, 1. 1.
11 CE. Sthiramati od Madhyanta-vibhaiga, p. 12.

aon Yauengresanger- paar RH Ain
wr
7

Google
to E, OBERMILLER

tantra-lakgana).' Now, although there is no real differen-
tiation of subject and object (grahya-grahaka)’ in them, our
constructive thought makes this differentiation,” it ascribes to
the said elements an objective existence and nominally and
conventionally attributes to them certain essences, qualities
etc. etc., all of which do not inhere in the elements as things
in themselves.‘ Everything thus attributed to the elements by
our constructive thought forms the “‘imputed,” the “cons-
tructed” or the “‘superimpoeed” aspect of existence (pari-
kalpita-lakgana).* Now, being cut short of all these construc-
tions of the mind, the elements of existence appear in their
true, pure, and undifferentiated nature, as forming one whole
and as merged for ever in Nirvana, This is the Absolute
aspect (parinigpanna-lakeana).*

The Yogacara conception of édnyatd is most closely
connected with this theory of the 3 aspects of existence. The
causally dependent aspect (paratantra-lakgana), or the ele-
ments of existence in their crude form as modifications of the
etream of consciousness represent “‘the substratum of
"* (dgag-géi), i.e. that which is characterized as
of a certain essence or quality. Now, of what is it
in other words, what is the item negated ?—It is
that part which forms an attribution of constructive thought,—
all the objective essences etc., which are ascribed to things,
the subject-and-object relation, the separate essences of the
elements and the idea of the individual Ego. In short, it io
the constructed or superimposed aspect (parikalpita-lakgana).
It is not contained in the true nature of the causally depen-
dent elemente of existence; the latter are therefore charac-
terized as ‘devoid’ (Sanya) of it. This total absence of the
superimposed in the causally dependent represents the

p. 12, sspegrarftarg et afteecatsta 1
Cf. “Doctrine of Pris." p. 4.

Kan-ta-briage-pahi mishan-Aid (kun-briags),

Yots-su-gral-pahi mishan-fid (yons-grab).

oe une

Google
SONYATA AND ITS DIFFERENT INTERPRETATIONS III

“essence of devoidness” (éinyata); it is the negation of all
imputed separate reality, of the elements and of
the individual, and this, as we know, ie the Absolute Aspect
(porinigpanna-lakgana). Or, as Tson-kha-pa has it, “the part
of the causally dependent aspect which is from the outset
devoid of the superimposed, represents the Absolute
aspect."' It is therefore clear why édnyatd appears as a
synonym of “the Absolute Truth’ (paramartha), etc.?
Thus the imputed aspect (parikalpita) appears as devoid
of a real essence of its own or of the character of a thing in
iteelf, for which reason it is called “the essential unreality”
(lakeana-nihsvabhavata).* The causally dependent and the
Absolute aspects are “devoid” of the superimposed, but they
are by no means void in themselves, i.e. non-existing. They
have both an ultimate reality.‘ Here Tson-kha-pa quotes
Ratnakaraéanti (‘éanti-pa”, without naming the text
quoted which is the Citta-mdtra-alamkara).> It is said
{The elements of existence) do not repre-
from the standpoint of their constructed or
superimposed nature. On the contrary, as regards their
causally dependent and their absolute nature, they do not
represent a non-ens (i.e. they are ultimately real)’ In such
a way the two extremities (of Realism and Nihilism) are
shunned).’—It_is moreover said:—As regards blue colour
and the like, there will be an incongruity (if the said items are

1 gtan-dbai kan-briagekyis gdod-ma-nas stoi-pahi cha yore-grub-
tu hdod-de. Follows a quotation from Trimsiks, Kr. 21—
Frowwerea wet (=aftefeat eer efter § aT)

2 Ch Muvibh., 1 15

3 CE “Doctrine of Prpit.”, p. 93.

4 Sthit. ad Muvibh., p. 12. eegafterafie’ eee fe gnfter
afire | seqrafteet: ger a1 ( qeam=sftfrerw )

5 Tg. MDO. LXI.

6 Sthir. ad Muvibh,, p, 12.

wegafteratie area! fé gafeerafire 1 eequafters: Gaeta

7 Ibid, p. 14.

Google
m2 E. OBERMILLER

viewed as external objects), but not in the case when we take
them as (modifications of) pure consciousness.'—In such a
from the existence of the aspect of blue colour etc., as an
external object, i.e. of the imputed part? is denied. But as
regards that part which represents pure consciousness, it is
shown that its reality, if admitted, does not contradict any
of the methods of logical proof.‘

In short, according to this system, the special point of
negation, that of which the elements are ‘devoid’ (Sanya) is
their separate objective essence.’ This is considered to be
the imputed aspect exclusively. As regards the two other
aspects, there is not one text belonging to Asanga or Vasu-
bandhu'* in which they were demonstrated as “voi . non-
existing by themselves. The same point of view is expressed
in Dif 's Astasahasrika-pindartha’ and in the Suddhi-
mafi, end the Sarottoma of Retnakaraéanti.”

Next we have a quotation from the commentary on the
Madhyanta-vibhanga’ :—The unreality of the Individual and
of the separate elements is siinyata, (i.e. the fact that all the
elements of existence are ‘devoid’ of a real Ego as well as
of all the separate essences and properties that are ascribed

1 rnam-pa dat-bral-bohi ses-pahi geal-cha,

2 Sthir. ad. M.vibh., p. 19. spd ofeafeaereaara:

3 cf. Prof. Th. Stcherbatsky, Buddhist Logic, vol. 1. p. 530.

4. The following passages of the Gser. contain « long controversy
with the Midhyamikas about the “mi

5 chos-bdag=dharma-atman,

6 Thoge-med ska-mched.

7 Tg. MDO. XIV.

8 Both the Suddhimati and the SarottamE are commentaries on the
Abhisamayalamkira, written from the point of view of the Yogicira
system. The first of these works (Tib. transl, Tg. MDO. IX.) comments
fon the Abhis. in connection with the Paficaviméatisshasrikl, and the
second (Tg. MDO. X.) in connection with the Amasthasrika, Cf. my
Doctrine of Pr.-pir., Acta Orientalia, vol, XI pp. 9 and 10,

9 Ad. 1. 21 greater: omen HETTATAET ALATAET TTATE-
sft qerert

Google
SONYATA AND ITS DIFFERENT INTERPRETATIONS 113.

to them by our constructive thought). The real background
of this unreality, the undifferentiated monistic essence is like-
wise called Sdnyatd, in the sense of the true essence of the
elements separated from all that which represents a cons-
truction of the mind.—Thus the two kinds of imputed
reality,’ viz. that of the individual and of the separate ele-
ments form the object of negation, that of which the
elements in their true nature, are “devoid."’ The elements
of existence in their causally dependent aspect (paratantra-
lakgana) i.e. the component parts of the stream of conscious-
ness are the true foundation of existence—they are the
substratum on whose basis the attribution of the superimpos-
ed (parikalpita) essences and qualities is made; at the same
time, as moments of consciousness, they are the agents, which
bring about the superimposition, inasmuch as the habit of ob-
jectivizing forms a property of the stream of consciousness to
which they belong. And finally they represent the substratum
from which the true absolute aspect (parinigpanna-lakgana)
is conjectured’.—Conditioned (samskrta=hdus-byas) and
unconditioned (asamskrta=hdus-ma-byas) existence are thus
both included here, as we have it clearly expressed in the
commentary on Madhyanta-vibhanga. I. 3 (p. 13).
The objectivizing consciousness (abhiita-parikalpa), i.e.
the causally dependent aspect (paratantra-lakeana) par
excellence, (as such without any abstraction made) re-
presents the principle of conditioned existence, since
it comes into being on the foundation of causes and condi-
tions* It is “devoid” of the imputed part, of the subject-
and-object relation, but in itself it is not “‘void"’ it is a reality,®

1 Or, as Teon-kha-pa has it, “the two kinds of Ego” (bdag-ghis).

2 Sic, acc, to the Lege-blad-sii-po of Teon-kha-ps, Teas. Edition
19>, S—yors-grab-kyi-chov.can dat kun-briags kyi hdoge-pa-po dat
adage gti. CF, also Sthiramati ad M.-vibhaiga, p. 14.

rrmrannprafiset afiete frat |

3 a yet anf eae ate.

4 Tbid. Yegeeran freA ARTIST: HERA |

3S Ibid. eragafopertone’ deg 4 IH!

Google
4 E. OBERMILLER

a real substratum including the Absolute Essence.’ The latter
is in itself likewise an ultimate reality.

Such is the main Yogacara theory as it appears in its
correct form. Tooti-kha-pa wame us against misconceptions,
against the views according to which the unconditioned
absolute aspect only represents the ultimate reality, cut short
of every conditioned existence, to speak otherwise, the views
which make of the absolute aspect the understructure of
negation and declare it to be ‘devoid’ of both the super-
imposed and the causally dependent aspect thus denying the
ultimate reality of the latter.” In the three Yogicara treatises
of Maitreya’ and in the works of Asanga and Vasubandhu
such an interpretation is nowhere to be found.‘

The third and last part [Gser. | 304b. 6—305b. 1.]
refers to the Madhyamika conception of édnyatd or, as Tson-
kha-pa has it, “the teaching of the negators of (independent)
reality’ (dnos-po-med-par-smra-ba),

It begins with the very pregnant statement that sanyata,
according to the Madhyamika point of view, is not that
incomplete (pradesika=fii-tshe-ba) “‘devoidnese” which
consists in the negation of some items (parts), implying the
affirmation of others as:—the negation of the conditioned,
implying the affirmation of the unconditioned, the negation
of Ene implying the affirmation of Non-ens etc. Such an
incomplete éanyatd does not pass beyond the categories of

1 Tbid., p. 4. qerbegaah evergete, a gray and Kar | 2.
fru’ era)
2 The adherents to these views ate the representatives of the
Yonan-pa sect with whom Tsoi-kha-pa always polemiscs.

3. The Sitralaikira, Madhyanta-vibhaiga, and Dharma-dharmata-
vibhatga.

4 There are however texte composed by Indian Pangits in which
the said views find their expression. These are the commentaries on
the Sataszhasrika-prajdparamita and the three Pr.-par-siitras ascribed to
the Kashmirian Damgtrisena (Tg. MDO. XIV) and in the Amndya-
‘anusiripl, a commentary on the Agtasshasriks. (Tg. MDO, XV). The
part of Tsoh-kha-pa's analysis dedicated to the Yogickra conception of
Ganyata ends with an investigation of some passages from these textp,

Google
SONYATA AND ITS DIFFERENT INTERPRETATIONS — 115

affirmation and negation (vidhipratigedha) or of that which is to
be accepted or rejected (heya-upadeya). In this incomplete
form we had it in Hinayana where the negation of the Ego
is contrasted with the affirmation of the reality of the
separate elements, and with the Yogacaras, according to
whom there is on one side the negation of the super-
imposed aspect, and on the other the affirmation of the
causally dependent (real in itself) and of the Absolute (the
ultimate Highest Truth). This according to the Madhyamikas
is an eclectic point of view; some items are negated, others
affirmed. There is thus a variety of concepts and no unique
principle that could be applied to everything cognizable
without any limitations. On the contrary, édnyatd in the
Madhyamika interpretation is regarded as such a principle,
“it tranecends the limits of affirmation and negation,” of that
which is to be rejected and its reverse. This means that
it leaves no room for a pluralistic conception, the differentia-
tion of something ultimately real and ultimately unreal.
Similar to an illusion, the elements of existence appear to
the mind which, possessed of error, is satisfied in taking them,
as they present themselves to it, without investigating any
of them, as regards its true nature.’ But from the standpoint
of ultimate reality, they are all without exception “devoid”
(Sanya) of an essence of their own, this principle being
consequently applied to all entities, including the Highest
Truth, the Buddha, etc. Now how is this to be understood?
Haribhadra, in his Abhisamayalamkara-dloka’ gives us the
explanation :—"‘They (the elements of existence) have no
ultimate separate essence, because they are
mutually dependent” (paraspara-apekqa). This
passage clearly shows what the “‘devoidnese” of something
‘of an essence of its own really signifies. It is dependent
existence, the fact that a thing can be identified only by

1 This is called avicdra-ramaniyatoam. .
2 CE. my “Study of the Twenty Aspects of Sinyats,"” Indian
Historical Quarterly, vol. IX, pp. 181 and 162.

Google
16 . E. OBERMILLER

its relation to something else, i.e. relativity. The full
importance of this conception of Siinyata becomes clear in
connection with the theory of Dependent Origination
(pratitya-samutpada=rten-cin-hbrel-par-hbyun-ba) in its Ma-
dhyamika interpretation. The Madhyamikas say :—All
elements of existence are devoid of an essence of their own,
on account of their dependent origination, their dependence
on causes and conditions.—But, as we know from the
Mala-madhyamika, an actual origination, a production
of certain effects by their causes cannot be admitted.’
There ie really no origination, there is only relation or co-
ordination, the existence of entities in dependence upon
others, in other words—Relativity. Sdnyatd,—says Nagarjuna
in his Lokafita-stava, means for thee, O Buddha, the
principle of Dependent Origination: More simply :
éanyata means Relativity. And in order to show that just
this is the sense he intends to communicate, the great
Madhyamika Master says:, “There exists no independent
(non-relative) entity whatsoever’ (bhavah svatantro nasti).

The negation of all incorrectly superimposed essence with
the separate elements (dharma-nairatmya=chos-kyi hdag-
med), says Tson-kha-pa, appears in its fully accomplished
form only in this (Madhyamika) system, inasmuch as all
elements without any limitation are demonstrated as being
devoid of an essence of their own.—With this ends the inves-
tigation of Sanyata in the Gser-phren.

So we have the term éinyatd in its different interpreta-
tions. As it is thus a term common to all the Buddhist
systems in general, we meet with the necessity of finding for
it a common equivalent that would agree with all the
different conceptions. To render it literally as “‘voidity”’ or
“Emptiness” would imply a totally nihilistic sense which
the term in reality does not possess and owing to which it
has been for a long time entirely misunderstood. Now, as

1 CE. Conception of Buddh. Nirvino, p. 90.—“The fact that entities
are produced only in the sense of being co-ordinated.””

Google
SONYATA AND ITS DIFFERENT INTERPRETATIONS — 117

we have just seen, in all the three cases examined by us,
Sanyata appears in the sense of a negation of an incorrectly
imputed essence or substance and of the ultimate truth
forming the background of this negation. It seems therefore
to us that it would be well-nigh hitting the point, if we were
to give as a general equivalent “‘Non-substantiality’’ with an
indication of the special sense applied to the term in the
‘separate cases, in correspondence with the different systems.
The meanings of Sdnyata would then appear in short as
follows :—

In Hinay an a—Non-substantiality, as the negation
of the enduring, indivisible, and independent substance of
the Ego or individual soul.

With the Yogacaras—Non-substantiality, as the
negation of material and every other substance differing from
consciousness, of every superimposed objective reality.
‘The essence of this negation is Sanyata in the sense of the
Highest Truth, the Absolute aspect of existence.

With the Madhyamikas—Non-substentiality,
as the negation of the independent reality of all separate
elements, of all qualities, time etc., tol be understood in the
sense of Relativity, this being an all-pervading principle, the
Highest Truth. This is the negation of all plurality (prapafica),
implying the idea of the universe as one great Whole,
forbidding every formulation by concept or speech.’

Thus it is that one of the most important technical terms
of Buddhist philosophy is used in its different interpretations,
to denote the subtlest and most developed conceptions of
indian thought.

1 CE. “Conception of Buddhist Nirodna,” p. 43.—It must be
remarked here that as the principle of Relativity is applied by the
Madhyamikas consequently to everything cognizable, this Highest Truth,
is iteelf relative (sdnyatd-sanyata), whereas the Absolute of the Yogiciras
fs @ reality in itself; it Is not svabhava-éanya.

NOTES
Ancient Indian Culture in Ball

On the 16th April, 1934, Dr. Heinrich Meinhard of
the Berlin Ethnological Museum, read a paper at the
invitation of the Greater India Society on ‘Ancient Indian
Culture in Bali."*

The popular belief that the islands of the Malay
Archipelago are inhabited by the Malay people is, said
Dr. Meinhard, altogether wrong; for the Malays form
five millions out of a total population of 70 millions.
The Malays, however, were the firet to come into con-
tact with the Europeans, and, like Hindustani in India,
the Malay language is the lingua franca of the whole
Archipelago, The ‘‘Malays’ are not autocthonous, but
had their cradle perhaps in South-West China or Tibet.
Some elements in the culture of the head-hunting Nagas of
Aseam are absolutely identical with those of the head-
bunting Toradjas of the Central Celebes mountains.

The ‘‘Malay" races are commonly held to consist of
two main types, namely the Indonesian and the Malay
types, which are supposed to represent two successive
waves of migration. This view, however, is open to
doubt. The truth seems to be that every tribe or group
of tribes has a characteristic of its own. The different
peoples of the ‘Malay’ race speak a common family of
languages called the Indonesian, which forme a branch
of the Austronesian family of languages. The Indonesian
languages have different forms of speech according to
persons to whom they are spoken; e.g. Ngoko or low-
Javanese is spoken by a father to his child or by children
to each other, while the child speaking to his father uses
the Krama or high-Javanese form of speech. In speaking
toa prince the high-krama form of speech is used.

Indonesia was in early times colonised by Indian emi-
grants; but at present nearly all these Indon nations,

Google
H, MEINHARD 9

with the exception of the Northern and Central Philippines,
have embraced Islam. The small island of Bali to the
east of Java has now become the only refuge of Indian
culture in the Archipelago. Before the Dutch occupation of
the island in 1906 there were nine independent principali-
ties in Bali, and till about 1750 there was one Great
King who ruled the whole island. The best and the most
complete account of Balinese institutions is contained in
the work of R. Friedrich, which appeared in 1849-1850.
Friedrich was a pupil of the well-known German Indolo-
gist Christian Lassen and stayed in the island for three
years.

In Bali there are only four original castes, but there is
no mixed caste as in India. The absence of mixed
castes is due to the fact that very few high-caste men
and still fewer women came from India, so that their
offspring had to follow the father's cast: to prevent
the extinction of the noble families. The Tjendalas of
Bali do not correspond to Indian Candalas, but are persons
suffering from contagious diseases, specially lepers. They
are not allowed to live in the village, for they stay
near the frontiers of hostile states. The Balinese have
special titles for members of the three upper castes,
namely, Ida for Brahmanas, Dava for Kgatriyas, and Gusti
for the Vesya (Sanskrit-Vaigya), while the Sidras are
described as slaves or ‘men.”

The Ida has been derived from the Sanskrit Iddha
and Gusti from the Sanskrit Gosthin. But these deriva-
tions are uncertain. There are five orders of Brahmanas
in Bali claiming descent from a common ancestor through
his five wives. The Brahman: re either the common
Idas who live by cultivation and other occupations, or
the Padandas i.e., learned priests. The Padanda is one
who has learnt the whole circle of religion and learning
from his Guru and the radja selects his Purohita from the
Padandas of his principality. The Purohita is the Guru of
the prince who is his Sisiya. The Brahmana wife of a
Padanda may learn the Vedas, perform  sacrific and

Google
120 ANCIENT INDIAN CULTURE IN BALI

utter mantras, The old Javanese Keatriyas have perished
during many wars of the past. At present the majority
of the radjas are not Keatriyas but Vesyas.

Feudalism is the prevailing form of government in Bali,
there being nominally one highest suzerain and the
radjas being his feudatories (Punggaws i.e. Sanskrit
Pumgava). There are few Buddhist in Bali, Buddha being
regarded as the younger brother of Siwa. But the great
majority of the Balinese people belong to Saivaism. The
Padanda performs his domestic worship called Suriya~
Sewana (sun-worship), the Sun being identified with Siwa.
The Padanda also performs the public worship for the

people.
There are six great temples in Bali dedicated to Siwa ;

of these the temple of Vasuki is the oldest and most
famous. At the lesser temples which exist in every
village, offerings are made to Durga, Kali and the Buta.
Demon-worship is very popular among the common people.
Besides the Butas and the Rakgasas there are the Rejaks
or the witches, who are supposed to change their shape
by means of mantra and make themselves in
Siwa is the main deity and his chief consort Uma
called Parwati and Giriputri. Brahma and Wisnu are
regarded as emanations of Siwa. Other Pauranic gods
are also known, specially the eight Lokapalas (Guardians
of the quarters). The persons whose cremation has been
correctly performed will go to Indraloka ; but higher than
this is the Siwaloka, where the soul finds final salvation.

The lecturer concluded by saying that the Balinese
institutions were to some extent the same as in India,
but in other respects they went their own way.

Google
Select Contents of Oriental Journals
Acta Ortentalia: 1934

W. F. Stutterheim—A newly discovered pre-Nagari inscrip-
tion in Bali. Notice (with translation and photographs)
of a fragmentary inscription in six lines written on
one side of a stone-pillar in an Indian script which
does not correspond to any shown in Biihler's chart.
On the other side of the pillar are thirteen lines
written in Kavi alphabet which might date from the
9th or 10th century.

F.M. Schnitger—The names of the Javanese King Jaya-
nagara. Shows distinctive names of certain Javanese
kings (of the latter part of the 12th and early part
of the 13th century) to have belonged also to con-
temporary or earlier Hoysala, Pandya and Eastern
Calukya kings, thereby proving the close relations of
Java with South India. Certain types of images from
Java belonging to the same period betray the same
South-Indian influence :

Sten Konow—Roruka and Chinese Turkestan —Identifica-
tion of Roruka in the Turkestan version of the story
described by Hiuen Tsang, with Lou-lan. Language
used in Kharogthi documents found at Lou-lan is
North-Western Indian Prakrit which was also used in
Kharogthi inscriptions. Traces of this Prakrit in modern
Sindhi make it probable that this Prakrit in ancient
times was also spoken at least in Northern Sind.
This supports Liiders’s supposition that the Indian
immigrants in Eastern Turkestan partly came from Sind.

Djawa—Vol. 14, No. 1, January, 1934

Ng. Poerbatjaraka and C. Hooykaas—BHARATA-YUDDHA.
Tronslation with prefatory notice of a very short Old-
Javanese composition written by Mpu Sedah and Mpu
Panuluh about eight centuries ago. It is based on the

Google
122 SELECT CONTENTS OF ORIENTAL JOURNALS

skrit Mahabharata and is pre-eminently the Javanese
Epic. Its subject-matter is confined to the battle of
Kurukeetra.

Ibid. Vol. 14, Nos. 2 and 3, June—1934

A. Steinmann—Een Oud-Javaansche kris met Voor-Stellingen
uit de Mintaraga, pp. 125-126. Description of an Old-
Javanese kris with representation of episodes of Arjuna’s
life engraved on its blade.

J. Vv. M.

‘The Journal of the Malay Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society,
Vol. XI, part II, (December, 1938)

H. Overbeck—Hikayat Maharaja Ravana, pp. 111-132. Two
important contributions have recently been made to
the study of the Rama saga in Indonesia (Hikayat
Stri Rama) namely, Rama-Legenden und Rama Reliefs
in Indonesien (Vol I, Text; Vol. II, Plates) by Dr.
'W. Stutterhein (Munich, 1925,) and Die Rama-sage bei
der Malaien, ihre Herkunft und Gestaltung (Publication
of the Hamburg University) by Dr. A. Zieseniss,
(Hamburg, 1928). The present work, however, which
has been preserved in Ms. in the Preussische Staats-
bibliothek, Berlin, has hitherto escaped notice. A com-
plete summary of this work follows.

Tildsohritt voor Indisohe, Taal-Land-en Volkenkunde, 1934, Decl
LXXIV, Aflevering 1.

W.F. Stutterheim—Beschreven Lingga van Krapjak—pp
85-93. Description of a Linga with four lines of
writing mentioning how a field was made by its donor
a free region for his mausoleum.

K. C. Crucq—Eenige opmerkingen over de figuren staande
boven de teekens van den dierenriem op de prasens
(Zodiakbekers) pp 94-100. The author attempts to
explain some Zodiacal figures,

Google
SELECT CONTENTS OF ORIENTAL JOURNALS 123

A. Steinmann—De dieren op de bas-reliefs van de
Boroboedoer—pp. 101-122. A critical analysis of animal
figures found in the bas-reliefs of Borobudur.

Verhandelingen van het koninkrijk Bataviaasch Genootschap van
Kunsten en Wetenschappen, Deol LXXII, Aflevering, 2, 1993

Th. Pigeaud—Serat Cabolang and the Serat Centini. Edition
with translation of the above. Introduction of Serat
Cabolang mentions Carik Sutrasna, a Crown-Prince of
Surakarta as the author. The varied style and
literary value of these works support the tradition that
they were written by various authors. The stories
betray Hindu as well as Muhammadan influences.

H. B. S.

Google
Original from

Digitized by Google UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
THE

JOURNAL

OF THE

GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

Correction Slip
Vol. I, No. I, (January, 1934).

Page Line For Read

2 2 “agreements” “arguments”

4 12 “Indian thought” “Western thought”
47 18 & 31 “Dhanyakutaka” ‘‘Dhanyekitaka”
47 33 “cut” “kita"”

47 33 “kutaka” “kitake”

Printed ot the Calcatta Oriental Press and Pablished by
the Honp, Secretary, Greater India Society.

CALCUTTA.

Google
Google Inver

THE

JOURNAL

OF THE

GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

"pr By

U.N. GHOSHAL, Pu.p.

Vol. 11, 1885

Printed at the Calcutta Oriental Press and Published by
the Hong. Secretary, Greater India Society.

CALCUTTA.

Google
Original from

Digitized by Google UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
THE

JOURNAL OF THE GREATER INDIA SOCIETY
CONTENTS

Volume 11, 1935

Articles Page
Celebes Bronze Buddha oe 76
By Dr. Bahadur Chand Chhabra, Ph. D.
Contributions from the Mahavaméa to our knowledge
of the Mediaeval Culture of Ceylon we 89
By Dr. Wilh. Geiger, Ph. D.

- Decline and Fall of the Sailendras ... oe 12
By Dr. R. C. Majumdar, M. A., Ph. D.
Identification of $11 Vignuvarman of the Perak Seal 71
By Dr. Bahadur Chand Chhabra, Ph. D.
Influx of Indian Sculpture into Fu-nan os 122
By Dr. Ludwig Bachhofer, Ph. D.
Migration of Indian Decorative Motifs on 37

By Devaprasad Ghosh, M. A., P. R.S.
Old-Javanese Copper-plates from Sidoteka of the Saka
year 1245 o 131
By Himansu Bhusan "Sarkar, M. A.
Old-Javanese Inscription from Penampihan of the

Saka year 1191 Pay oe 55
By Himansu Bhusan Sarkar, M. A.
Sailendravaméa oe we 25
By Dr. J. Przyluski, “D. Litt.
Sanskrit Manual of Tsotkhapist Worship oe 128

By Dr. E. Obermiller, Ph. D.
Sankrit MS. from Tibet—Kamalaéila’s Bhdvana-krama 1
By Dr. E. Obermiller, Ph. D.

Google
[i]

Sanskrit treatise by a Tibetan author oe
By Pandit Vidhushekhara Bhattacharya

Veda and Avesta wee Py
By Dr. Batakrishna Ghosh, Ph. D., D. Litt.

Miscellany = eo
Notices of Books

Archaeology in Gwalior (Dr. U. N. Ghoshal)...
Cronaca della Missione Scientifica Tucci nel Tibet

Occidentale (C. Riaudo)
De Indische Cultuurstroom (Dr. B. ch. Chhabr:
Guide to the Archaeological Museum at Gwalior

(Dr. U. N. Ghoshal) oe "
Indo-Tibetica, III (P. N. Roy) on oe
Midden-Oost Borneo-Expedite 1925 (B. G.)
Nawaruci (B. G.) a oy

47

2

83, 168

80

77
165

81
164
163
162

Peking Editon of the Tibetan Kanjur (V. Bhattacharya) 161

Two recent reconstructions of a Sanskrit Hymn
transliterated with Chinese characters

(V. Bhattacharya) on oe 159
Obituary Notices
Gabriel Ferrand (Dr. Kalidas Nag, D. Litt.) 169
Louis Finot (Dr. Kalidas Nag, D. Litt.) wn 170
Select Contents of Oriental Journals oe 86, 174
Plates Facing page
Caitya-window, Bhuvaneévara, Orissa. India... 38
Caitya-arch, Central Java we 38
Caitya-arch, T'ang dynasty, China ... 38
Caitya-arch, Yuan dynasty, China 38
Caitya-arch, Lycia, Asia Minor 42
Kirttimukha, Konarak, India 42
Kirttimukha, Pagan, Burma — 42
Kirttimukha, Lung-Men, China on 42

Google
]
Alphabetical List of Contributors

Bachhofer, Dr. Ludwig, Ph.D. «.- 122
The Influx of Indian Sculpture into Funan

Bhattacharya, Pandit Vidhushekhara oe 47
A Sanskrit treatise by a Tibetan author

Chhabra, Dr. B. Ch., Ph. D. on 71
Identification of Sri Vigquoarman of the Perak Seal

Ibid, The Celebes Bronze Buddha ... os 76

Geiger. Dr. Wilh., Ph. D.
Contributions from the Mahavaméa to our knowledge

of the Mediaeval Culture of Ceylon... 89
Ghosh, Dr. Batakrishna, Ph. D., D. Litt.
Veda and Avesta 2
Ghosh, Devaprasad, M. A. P.R.S.
Migration of Indian Decorative Motife «.- 37
Majumdar, Dr. R. C., M. A., Ph. D.
Decline and Fall of the Sailendras a 2

Obermiller, Dr. E.. Ph. D.
A Sanskrit MS. from Tibet :Kamalafila's

Bhavana-krama ... ae 1

Ibid, A Sarakrit Manual of Tsoikhapist Worship 128
Prayluski, Dr. J., D. Litt.

The Sailendravaméa vee we 5

Sarkar, Himansu Bhusan, M. A.
An Old-Javanese Inscription from Penampihan of

the Saka year 1191 = oe 55
Ibid, The Old-Javanese Copper-plates from Sidottka
of the Saka year 1245 we ” 131

Google
arses» Google

Original from

UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
Vol. Il No. 1

January, 1935

Trr2czQqonw WEA

aS

Google
GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

AIMS AND OBJECTS

ize the study of Indian culture in Greater India _ [i.e.
i India Minor, Indo-China and Insulin as well as
in China, Korea, Japan and other countries of

2. To arrange for tl ublication of the resul.s of researches into the
histo of India’s spiritual and cultural relations with the outside
world.

3. To create an interest in the history of Greater India and connected
problems among the students in the schools, co:leges and Univer-
sities of India by instituting a systematic study of those subjects and
to take proper steps to stimulate the same.

4. To popularise the knowledge of Greater India by organising mass
meetings, lantern lectures, exhibitions and conferences.

MEMBERSHIP RULES

The annual subscription payable by the members is Rs. 12/- only.
Members are entitled to receive the publications of the Society at
cgncession rates and copies of the Journal of the Society free of cost.

For rates of advertisement etc.
Apply to the Hon. Secretary,
GREATER INDIA SOCIETY-
21, Badurbagan Row,

P.O. Amherst Street, Calcutta.

GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

PURODHA
Dr. Rabindra Nath Tagor

Maharaja of Pithapuram,
Mookerjee, K.C.S.1. Ri

B. L. Mitter, etc.
MANAGING COMMITTEE FOR 1094-5

President—Sir P. C. Ray, Kt.

Hony. Secretary—Dr. U. N. Ghoshal, Ph.D.

Hony. Joint-Secretary—Dr. Kalidas Nag, D.Litt (Pari).

Cther members of the Comm.ttee—Rai Bahadur Rama Prasad
Chanda, B.A., F.A.S.B.; Dr. Suniti Kumar Chatterji,

D.Litt. (Lond.); Dr, Prabodh Chandra Bagchi, D.Litt.
(Par Dr. Nalinaksha Dutt, D.Litt (Lond.); O. C.
Gangely, Esq.; Dr. Narendra Nath Law, Ph.D.; Nani

Gopal Majumdar, Esq., M.A.; Jitendra Nath Banerji,
Esq., M.A.

Journal “Sub-Committee for 1934-35—Drs. U. N. Ghoshal,
Kalidas Nag, Narendra Nath Law, Nalineksha Dutt.
Prabodh Chandra Bagchi and Suniti Kumar Chatterji.

Google
THE

JOURNAL OF THE GREATER INDIA SOCIETY
January; 19355

CONTENTS
Articles
Page
A Sanskrit MS. from Tibet—Kamalasila's Bhavana-
krama on a 1
By Dr. E. Obermiller, Ph. D.
Decline and Fall of the Sailendras oe oe 3
By Prof. Dr. R. C. Majumdar, M. A., Ph. D.
The Sailendravaméa oe aw 25

By Prof. Dr. J. Prayluski, D. Litt.
Migration of Indian Decorative Motifs ...
By Devaprasad Ghosh, M. A., P. R. S.
A Sanskrit treatise by a Tibetan author ... ae 47
By Pandit Vidhushekhara Bhattacharya
An Old-Javanese Inscription from PSnampiban of
the Saka year 1191
By Himansu Bhushan Sarkar, M. A.
Identification of Sri Vignuvarman of the Perak Seal ... 7
By Dr. Bahadur Chand Chhabra, Ph. D.
The Celebes Bronze-Buddha a 76
By Dr. Bahadur Chand Chhabra, Ph. D.
Notices of Books 77
G. Tucci & E. Ghersi, Cronaca ‘della Miasione Scienti-
fica Tucci nel Tibet Occidentale (1933) Reviewed
by C. Riaudo
M. B. Garde, Archaeology in Gwalior. A Guide to
the archaeological Museum at Gwalior. Reviewed
by U. N. Ghoshal.
Miscellany
Select Contents of Oriental Journals we os 86

55

Google
bs
Aol
aN

Vd

arses» Google

THE JOURNAL

OF THE

GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

Vou. I JANUARY, 19355 No. 1

A Sanskrit Ms. from Tibet—Kamalasila’s
Bhavana-krama

By Dr. E. Obermiller.

The reign of the King Thi-sroi-deu-tsen (Khri-sron-
Idehu-btsan, VII century) represents a period of the greatest
importance in the early history of Tibet in general and of
the spread of Buddhism in that country in particular. The
activity of the great Santirakgita (““Acarya Bodhisattva’) and
of Padma-sambhava, the selection of the first seven
Buddhist monks of Tibetan origin (sad-mi mi bdun), the
foundation of numerous sites of Buddhist learning in Tibet,
and the intense literary activity of the Tibetan learned
translators (lo-tea-ba)—Pal-tseg (dPal-brtsegs) and othere by
whom a great number of Buddhist canonical and scientific
works were rendered into Tibetan,—all this has been des-
eribed by Bu-ston in hie History of Buddhism and in other
Tibetan historical works.

There is, however, one subject relating to the spread
of Buddhism in Thi-srof-deu-tsen’s reign, to which the
Tibetan historian devotes his special attention and on which
he dwells in detail. This is the strife between two parties
into which the Buddhists of Tibet were at that time split.
‘One of these parties consisted of the pupils and followers
of Acarya Santirakgita who professed that form of Mahayana

Google
2 E. OBERMILLER

Buddhism which was generally acknowledged in India and
Nepal, viz. the teaching of the Path to Enlightenment
through the practice of meditation connected with the
dialectical analysis peculiar to the Madhyamika school of the
Buddhists and with the practice of the six Transcendental
Virtues (paramita).

The leader of the other party was a Chinese teacher
(hwa-Sai or ho-shang) known by the Sanskrit name
Mahayanadeva, who preached a doctrine of complete
quietism and inactivity. According to him every kind of
religious practice, the meditative exercises and all virtuous
deeds as well were completely useless and even undesirable;
the liberation from the bonds of phenomenal existence was
to be attained merely through the complete cessation of
every kind of thought and mental activity,—by abiding
perpetually in a state analogous to sleep. Bu-ston’ relates
how this party grew very powerful and ‘round numerous
adherents among the Tibetans, how the followers of Santi-
rakgita suffered oppression from it, and how the king who
was an adherent of Santirakgita’s system, invited Santi-
rakgita's pupil, the teacher Kamalasila in order to refute the
incorrect teachings of the Chinese party. The dispute
between Kamalagila and the Chinese Ho-shang in which the
latter was defeated is described by Bu-ston’ in detail. We
read that the leading men of the two patties’ assembled in
the presence of the king, that the Ho-shang was the first to
speak in favour of his theory of quietism and inactivity and
was answered by Kamalaéila who demonstrated all the
absurdity of the theses maintained by the Ho-shang and
showed that the teachings of such a kind were in conflict
with the main principles of Buddhism and were conducive
to the depreciation and rejection of the most essential
features of the Buddhist Path to Enlightenment. We read

1 CE. my Translation, Vol. II, p. 192.
pp. 192, 193.

3 Known by the Chinese names Tén-miin (sTon-mun, the party of
the Ho-shong) and Tsen-min (rTsen-min, the adherents of Kamalaétla).

Google
A SANSKRIT MS, FROM TIBET 3

further on how, the chief adherents of Kamalasila’ likewise
refuted the theories of the Ho-shang, how the latter and his
party acknowledged themselves vanquished and were ex-
pelled from Tibet by order of the king who prescribed to
follow henceforth the Buddhist doctrines that were generally
admitted,—the teaching of the six Virtues as regards religi-
ous practice and the Madhyamika system of Nagarjuna as
regards the theory.”

Thus the influence of the Chinese Ho-shang's teachings
over the minds of the Tibetans suffered a complete defeat
and with it perhaps some political influence of China.’ This
ia certainly a most important event in the history of Tibetan
Buddhism which has been duly appreciated by Buston. It
is therefore quite natural that we should be jnterested in
finding out the sources of Bu-ston’s historical record. But
the text of Bu-ston’s History which, as a rule, contains
references to the works on the foundation of which it has
been compiled, does not give us any information here. At
the first glance the account of the controversy lgoks like the
reproduction of an oral tradition and there is nothing that
could make us conjecture the presence of a literary work
upon which the record could have been founded. The
following will show that it has now become possible to trace
out this work, to compare with it the account given by
Bu-ston and to ascertain its historical importance.

It will be most jnteresting to observe that our source is
contained in the works of that very Acarya Kamalaéila who
gained the victory in the controversy described by Bu-ston.
The Asiatic Museum of the Academy of Sciences at
Leningrad possesses a small Sanskrit MS., a gift of the late
Dalai Lama, which has been brought from Tibet by the
Tehan-fiid Khambo (mtshan-fiid mkhan-po) Agvan (Nag-

1 Srighoga (Tib. dpal-dbyats) and Jédnendra (Tib, Ye-ées-dbai-po).
2 Henceforth the Madhyamika has become the predominant school
in Tibet.

3 Kamalaéila was subsequently murdered by the Ho-shang's
edberents,

Google
4 E, OBERMILLER

dban) Dorjeyin or Dorjeev, the Head Lama of the Buriat
and the Kalmuk Buddhists. The said MS. consists of eight
leaves, grey Tibetan paper, in Nepalese characters, very
legible and correct, the number of mistakes being quite
insignificant. The edges of the leaves are singed, but the
damage is not considerable (usually not more than 3 or 4 letters
ere wanting from both sides). On the upper part of fol. |
we have the title in Tibetan, in the running handwriting:
ka-ma-la-Si-las mdzad-pahi sgom-rim. The colophon on fol. 8
runs: Acarya-Kamalasila-nibaddho Bhavana-kramah samap-
tah. The title of the work is thi Bhavana-krama
(Tib. sgom-rim)—"‘the Process of Meditation, ., the teach-
ing about the exercises of Yoga which are peculiar to the
Path to Enlightenment of Mahayana Buddhism.

Now in the Tangyur, MDO., Vol. XXX(A) we have the
‘Tibetan translations of three works ascribed to Kamalasila,
all bearing the same title Bhdvand-krama. They follow one
after the other and are distinguished as: sgom-rim dan-po=
Parva-bhavana-krama (fol. 22-45, Peking ed.), sgom-rim
bar-ba=Madhyama-bhavanékrama (fol. 45-60), and sgom-
rim tha-ma=Antya-bhavand-krama’ (fol. 60-84). Of these
three, the last one represents the Tibetan version of our MS.
with which it shows the most perfect correspondence, 80
that it becomes possible to restore all the defective parts of
the MS. and correct the mistakes. The Tibetan translation
has been carried out by the Lotsava Ye-Ses-sde (Jfianasena)
with the assistance of the Pandit Prajfiavarman. We have
prepared an edition of both the Sanskrit and the Tibetan text
of the Bhavand-krama which we intend to publish before long
with a translation in English and a complete bilingual Index
Verborum. It is not our purpose at present to dwell upon
the principal subject-matter of the work which is the process
of meditation consisting of mind-concentration or mental
tranquility (samatha=éi-gnas) and transcendental analysis
(vipasyana=Vhag-mthor).? Our aim is to show that the text

1 Or, as Cordier (p. 318) has it,—Utlara-bhaoand-Rrama,
2 Cf. my “Doctrine of Prajia-paramita”. p. 17.

Google
A SANSKRIT MS. FROM TIBET 3

directly refers to the controversy between Kamalagila and
the Chinese party which ended with the defeat of the latter
and the cessation of its influence over the Buddhists of
Tibet.

Now, on fol. 4 sqq. of the MS. we read: (‘There are
some) who adhere to the following point of view: Through
the efficiency of good and bad deeds which are called forth
by the constructive activity of the mind (citte-vikalpa-
samutthapita-subhabubha-karma-vasena), the living beings
migrate in the Samsara, experiencing repeated births in
heavenly and other states of existence—the fruit of their
deeds. Those on the contrary who do not think of anything
at all and commit no deeds become delivered from the
Samsara, Therefore (in order to attain Nirvana) one must
not think of anything. Neither ought one to practise charity
and other virtues (since the virtuous deeds call forth further
rebirths in the Samsara, which, blissful though they be, still
invariably bind one to Phenomenal Existence, but cannot
bring about the complete liberation from the bonds of the
Phenomenal World).' The practice of charity, etc., has been
prescribed only with a view to the stupid ordinary people
(kevalam mirkha-janam adhikrtya danddi-kusala-carya nir-
digta).

“Now, he who speaks in such a manner will come to
reject the whole of the Mahayanistic Doctrine. And, as the
Great Vehicle is the foundation of all the Vehicles in
general, its depreciation leads to the rejection of all the
Vehicles (i.e., of all the main Buddhist teachings). Indeed,
he who says that one must not think of anything whatsoever,
will have to reject, deny or depreciate the Highest Wisdom,
the essence of which is correct thorough-going analysis of the
true state of things (tatha hi na kimcic cintayitavyam iti
bruvata bhite-pratyaveksa-lakgana prajfid pratiksipta bhavet).
And through the rejection of it the highest supermundane
transcendental wisdom of the Saint is likewise rejected (tat-
pratikgepal lokottara’ pi prajfid pratiksipta bhavet), the

1 Cf. Bu-ston, Trandl., Vol. Il, p. 193.

Google
6 E. OBERMILLER

rejection of the latter in its tum leads to the rejection of
the Omniscience in regard of all the aspects of existence
(sarva-akara-jfiata) which is the final goal of the Mahayanist.
(All this must necessarily occur), since (all) true knowledge
is founded upon correct thorough-going analysis, (the rejec-
tion of which renders all correct knowledge impossible)."”

Thereafter the author condemns the depreciation of the
practice of virtue, charity, etc. The virtuous acts of the
Bodhisattva are the skilful means (upaya) which, in connec-
tion with the highest analytic wisdom, represent in sum the
whole of the Mahayanistic Path. We have here quotations
from the Gayaéirga-siitra' and the Tathagata-guhya-siitra.*
The passage ends with a very vehement utteranc
“Therefore the words of him who despises the Mahayanistic
Doctrine, whoee learning is defective, who is full of conceit
regarding his own (incorrect) views, who does not pay the
due respect to the wise, who has not mastered the rules
prescribed in Buddha's Scripture, and who, himself morally
ruined, brings others likewise to ruin,—these words, being
infected by the poison of contradiction, violating Logic and
Scripture, are like venomous food and ought to be cast
away far off by every wise person who cares for his own
benefit.””

After that Kamalasila again speaks about the absurdity
of the views according to which one has but to reject all
mental activity in order to become delivered from Samsara.
“Indeed”, he says, “he who depreciates the correct analysis
of the true state of things, shall reject that most essential
component element of Enlightenment which we call the
perfect analysis of the elements of existence (dharma-
pravicayakhyam pradhanam eva bodhyangam). And
without the thorough-going analysis of the true state of things,
how can the mind of the meditator (Yogin) who from time
beginningless has become accustomed to a realistic concep-
tion of Matter and the other elements, how can it (all on a
sudden) come to the state which is free from all constructive

1 Cf. Bu-ston, Transl., Vol. 1, p. 11.

Google
A SANSKRIT MS. FROM TIBET 7

thought (and which represents Nirvanad—vin@ ca bhita-
pratyavekeaya yoginah katham andadi-kalabhyasta-rapadi-
bhavabhinivegesya cittam nirvikalpatam praviset). If it ie
said that one comes to this state by not recalling in memory
any of the elements of existence and by not directing the
mind upon them (sarva-dharmegu asmrty-amanasikarena
praviéati), this will be incorrect. Indeed, without a thorough-
going analysis of the true state of things, the cessation of
recollection and mental activity regarding all the elements
experienced by us, cannot be realized (na hi vind bhite-
pratyavekgaya’ nubhiyamdnegu api sarva-dharmegu asmrtir
amanasikaro va éakyate kartum). If one thinks: | have not
to recall in my mind these elements nor to direct my
thoughts towards them,—and thus supposes to become
trained in non-recollection and absence of mental activity, —
this will really, as a matter of fact, be a most intense re-
collection and activity of the mind with regard to the said
elements (yadi ca na’ mi dharma maya smartavya na’ pi
manasi-kartavyd ity evam bhavayann-asmrtimanasikarau tegu
bhavayet tada sutardm evd te smyta manasi-krtaé ca syuh).
“'If it is said that the mere absence of recollection and
mental activity represents the cessation of these two factors
(which is the desired aim), then we shall ask : in what manner
does this absence manifest itself? If we analyse the subject,
(we come to the conclusion that) the state of liberation from
all dialectical thought-construction cannot have for its cause
a mere absence. If this were the case, we should make the
absurd conclusion that a person in a swoon has attained
(Nirvana), the state where there is no constructive thought,
inasmuch as recollection and mental activity do not exist
with him (sammircchitasya api smrti-manasikarabhavan
nirvikalpatd-pravesa-prasangah). As a matter of fact, the
cessation of recollection, mental activity, (and of all dialec-
tical thought-construction) is impossible without the analysis
of the true state of things (na ca bhiita-pratyavekgam vind
anya upayo’ sti yena prakarena asmrty-amanasikarau kuryat).
“Moreover, without this thorough-going analysis, how
can the non-substantiality, the absence of an independent

Google
8 €, OBERMILLER

‘essence of the elements come to be cognized (vind bhita-
pratyavekgaya nihsvabhavata dharmapdm katham avagata
bhavet)? The cognition of the elements as devoid of an
essence of their own (i.e., of their Relativity) ie impossible
without the analysis of the elements. And, without the
cognition of Non-substantiality, the removal of the Obscura-
tions becomes impossible (na’ pi vind sinyatd-prativedham
Gvarana-prahapam sambhavati). Otherwise all living beings
would be delivered (from the outset).

“Moreover, if owing to the want of memory or the
stupidity of the meditator, recollection and mental activity
do not manifest themselves, then, being completely stupid,
how can (such a meditator) be called a true Yogin? In this
case he who trains himeelf in the abolition of recollection
and mental activity without analysing the true state of things
will be merely accustomed to a state of torpor and apathy.
Consequently, the light of true knowledge will be drawn far
away (from such a person).

“But then let us suppose that (the meditator is neither
deprived of memory nor stupid). In such a case how can
he (all on a sudden) cease to remember and to think, without
having analysed the true state of things? It is not proper
to say that one does not recollect when one undoubtedly
does so (just as it is absurd to maintain that) one does not
perceive when one really does (vind bhata-pratyavekeaya na
hi smarann-eoa na smarati pasyann eva na pasyati iti yuktam
abhidhatum). And if one has become accustomed to expel
all kinds of recollection and thoughts, how can the
remembrance of the place of residence in a former birth and
the other properties of a Buddha take their origin? (asmrty-
amanasikérabhydsdcca katham —_piirva-nivasanusmrtyadi-
buddha-dharmodayo bhavet). There will be a contradic-
tion! Indeed, a person who all the while has to do with
cold objects which stand in direct opposition to the hot
‘ones,’ cannot experience the contact with something hot.

1 Cf. Nyayabindle, p. 68 and Stcherbatsky, Buddhist Logic,
Vol. U, p. 187,

Google
A SANSKRIT MS. FROM TIBET 9

Again, if with the Yogin who is merged in trance mental
consciousness’ does exist, then it must necessarily be based
upon some object. Indeed, the ordinary worldlings’ cannot
all on a sudden become possessed of that objectlees pure
cognition (which is the exclusive property of a Saint).
Suppose on the contrary that mental consciousness does not
exist (with the meditator merged in trance).—But, how then
will the non-substantiality of the elements be cognized?
And by means of what antidote will it be possible to remove
the obscuration of moral defilement (kena ca pratipakgena
kleSavaranam prahiyeta)? And moreover with an ordinary
worldling, even with one who has attained the 4th degree of
trance (dhydna) the annihilation of the mental faculty ie

“For all these reasons, if within the pale of the Highest
Doctrine the absence of recollection and mental activity
(regarding the ebjects of the Phenomenal World) is spoken
of, it must be viewed as necessarily preceded by the correct
analysis of the true state of things. It is only by applying
this analysis (to everything cognizable) that it becomes
(finally) possible to produce (the state of mind in which there
is) no recollection and mental activity, not otherwise.
Indeed, when the Yogin who investigates (the elements) by
means of correct analytic wisdom (niripayan samyak-
prajiayd yogi) does not perceive any element of existence
whatsoever in the present, past, and future as becoming
really originated (kalatraye paramarthatah samutpannom na
kamcid dharmam patyati), how can he (after having thus
cognized their unreality) recall them in memory and direct
the mind towards them? That which owing to its unreality
in the present, past, and future is not perceived from the
standpoint of ultimate reality,—how can it be remembered
or thought of? Consequently (as the consideration of the
reality of the separate entities is put an end to on the basis
of their analysie which conveys the notion of their unreality),

1 Mano-vijfana=yid-kyi rnam-par bes-pa.

2 Prthagjana=so-sohl skye-bo.
2

Google
to E, OBERMILLER

one attains to the knowledge free from constructive thought,
the pacification of all pluralism (tato’sau sarva-prapafico-
pasamam nirvikalpam jfidnam pravigto bhavet). By attain-
ing to this knowledge he cognizes directly the principle of
universal Non-subetantiality (and Relativity which represents)
the Absolute Truth. Through this cognition he throws off
the nets of all false views (prahina-sakala-kudreti-jalo
bhavati), and by taking recourse to the Highest Wisdom
connected with skilful means, becomes proficient in the
cognition of the Conventional’ and the ‘Absolute Reality.”

“Accordingly, by obtaining the wisdom free from the
Obscurations, he realizes all the properties of a Buddha
without exception (afo’ ndvarana-jfidna-labhat sarvén eva
buddha-dharman adhigacchati). Therefore without the
correct analysis of the true state of things the origination of
right knowledge and the removal of the Obecurations are
both impossible," etc., etc. (follow numerous quotations
from canonical texts, as the Samadhiraja, Ratnamegha,
Samdhinirmocana, etc.).

Now, if we compare with this passage the speech of
Kamalaéila, the reply given to the Ho-shang as rendered by
Bu-ston in his History, we find that Bu-ston’s version
represents a literal reproduction of the text of the Bhdvana-
krama which js only slightly condensed.’ It is thus quite
clear that Bu-ston has used the Bhavand-krama as a source
and we can only wonder at the accuracy and precision with
which he has rendered it. Just as in the account of the first
two Councils of the Buddhist Congregation where Bu-ston
faithfully reproduces the version of the Vinaya-kgudraka
without indicating his source, in the same manner here, in
communicating a most important event in the history of
Tibetan Buddhism, he bases his account upon a source, the
title of which is nowhere mentioned by him, and which

1 Samorti-satya=kun-rdzob-bden-pa.
2 We have given above the Sanskrit original of the passages given
by Buston. See Transl., Vol. Il, pp. 193, 194.

Google
A SANSKRIT MS. FROM TIBET "

now discloses itself as the work of Kamalaéila, the principal
Personage connected with the said event.

On the other hand we must equally point to the import-
ance of Bu-ston’s History for the due appreciation of
Kamaladila's work. From the text of the Bhavand-krama
alone it would never have been possible to make out who
‘was actually the opponent refuted by the author. We could
have been able only to ascertain that the opponent was one
who favoured a teaching of complete inactivity. Nowhere,
throughout the whole of the work, do we find the slightest
reference to China and Tibet,—very typical for an Indian
Pandit who does not like to mention his adversaries directly.
Tt is Bu-ston’s History from which we get full information
as concerns the polemic contained in the Bhavana-krama.
Bu-ston thus enables us to appreciate the work of Kamalasila
and makes it appear to us as it really is,—an important
document relating to the history of Tibetan Buddhism.

Google
Decline and fall of the Sailendra Empire*
By Dr.R. C. Majumdar.

The long-drawn struggle with the Colas which continued
throughout the eleventh century A.D. and at one time
threatened utter destruction to the Sailendras, ended in a
draw.

After fruitless efforts of a century, the Colas finally
abandoned the impossible enterprise of maintaining their
suzerainty over Sumatra and Malay Peninsula. The
Sailendra kingdom, exhausted and humiliated as it was,
slowly recovered its former position.

But although we can definitely trace the existence of the
kingdom for nearly three centuries. more when it was finally
destroyed, the Sailendra dynasty passes from our view.
After the beginning of the twelfth century A. D. we hear no
more of that powerful ruling family that dominated Malay-
sia since the end of the eighth century A.D. This does not,
of course, mean that they vanished or even ceased to reign,
but only that we do not possess any definite information of
them. For all we know, they might still continue to rule
over the kingdom.

The continuity of the kingdom is, however, clearly

* attested by the Chinese and perhaps also Arab accounts,
+ which still refer to the prowess of San Fo-tsi and Zabag.

The Chinese annals refer to two embassies from San Fo-
tsi in the twelfth century A. D.

in the year 1156 king Si-li-ma-he-la-sha (Sri Maharaja)
sent envoys to bring tribute. The emperor said, “When
distant people feel themselves attracted by our civilising
influence, their discernment must be praised. It is therefore

© Continued from Vol. I, p. 91.

Google
DECLINE AND FALL OF THE SAILENDRA EMPIRE b

that I rejoice in it, but not because | want to benefit by
product of their country.""*

In the year 1178 they sent again envoys to bring as
tribute products of the country. On thisoccasion the emperor
issued an edict ordering that they should not come to court
any more, but make an establishment at Chuan-chou in the
province of Fukie:

According to Ma-Twan-Lin the ambassadors of 1178
reported that their king had succeeded his father in A. D.
1169. So the emperor invested the new king with all the
titles and privileges of his ancestors and made suitable
presents.”

The Arab writers Edrist (1154 A.D.) Kazwini (A. D.
1203-1283), Ibn Said (1208 or 1214 to 1274 or 1286 A. D.),
and Dimaski (c. 1325 A. D.) all refer to the glory and power
of Zabag.* But it is difficult to say whether they write from
their own personal knowledge or merely quote from old
writers, as many others expressly have done. But in any
case the Chinese accounts definitely prove the existence of
the kingdom.

Fortunately we possess an interesting account of the
extent of this kingdom in the twelfth century A. D.
from the Chinese work Chu-fan-chi (‘Records of foreign
nations"). The author of this work is Chau-Ju-Kua, Inspector
of Foreign Trade in Fukien,*

As to the date of this Chinese author Hirth and Rockhill
conclude from a remark the author makes in his chapter on
Baghdad, that the work was composed between 1242 and
1258 A. D.* Pelliot has, however, shown that the author

1 Groenveldt—Notes, p. 67. Both Groenveldt and Ferrand (J.A.,
I-XX, p. 22) restore the name as Mabiasaje.

2 Grocneveldt—Notes, p. 67. 3 Ferrand, op. cit., p. 22. n. 2.

4 Ferrand, op. eit., pp. 65.74.

5. Cheu-Ja-Koa—His work on the Chinese and Arab trade in the
twelfth and thirteenth centuries entitled Chu-fanchi, Translated by
F. Hirth and W. W. Rockhill, St. Petersburg, (1912).

6 Ibid, p. 137,

Google
4 R. C. MAJUMDAR

wrote the preface to his work in 1225 A.D.’ We must,
therefore, hold that the work was originally written in or
about 1225 A. D., although additions and alterations might
possibly have been made during the next twenty-five years.
M. Coedés holds the view that Chau-Ju-kua’s account of
San Fo-tsi is almost entirely based on an earlier work Ling-
Wai-tai-ta, written in 1178 A.D., and uch the picture
which he draws can only be regarded as true of the period
janterior to 1178 A. D.? There does not appear to be any
valid reason for this assumption. Hirth and Rockhill are
definitely of opinion that Chau-Ju-Kua's account of San-Fo-
tsi is “based exclusively on oral information furnished to the
author by Chinese and foreign traders."”*
As we shall see later, some details given by Chau-Ju-Kua
{| (e.g., the inclusion of Ceylon as a dependency of San Fo-tsi)
‘* can only be explained if we assume the date proposed above.
In any case we can take Chau-Ju-Kua’s account asa
correct picture of the state of things in the twelfth century
A. D. Now according to this Chinese author, San Fo-tsi was
master of the straits of Malacca and thus controlled the
maritime trade between China and the western countries.
San Fo-tsi itself was a great centre of trade, and fifteen
states were dependent upon it. These are‘
1. Péng-féng (=Pahang).
2. Téng-ya-ning (=Trengganan).
3. Ling-ya-ssi-kia (=Lengkasuka).

1 T’oung Pao, Ser. Il, Vol. XIll, p. 449.

2 BK, 1927, p. 460.

3. Op cit, p. 37.

4 The identifications of names given within brackets are on the
authority of Fermnd (op. cit, pp. 13-14) and Krom, Geschiedenis
(op. 3034).

On Nos. 3, 6 and 9, see discussions above, Vol. I, pp. 78-79 of this
Journal, According to S. Lavi, Nos, 7 and 8 must be locked for in the Malay
Peninsula (Etudes Asiatiques, vol. I, pp. 1089), but Schlegel (T’oung
Peo, Ser. Il, Vol. Il, p. 135) and Gerint (Researches, p. 627), place them
tn Sumatra. The identification of No. 5 is on the authority of Gerint
(Researches, p. 825).

Google
DECLINE AND FALL OF THE SAILENDRA EMPIRE S

4. Ki-lan-tan (=Kelantan).

5. Fo-lo-an (=Beranang on the Langat river, west
coast of Malay Peninsula).

6. Ji-lot'ing (=Jeloting on the east (2) coast of
Malay Peninsula).

7. Te'ien-mai.

8. Pa-ta.

9. Tan-ma-ling (=Tamralinga or Ligor in Malay
Peninsula).

10. Kia-lo-hi (=Grahi=Jaya, south of the Bay of
Bandon).

ll. Pa-lin-fong (=Palembang).

12. Sinto (=Sunda).

13, Kien-pi (=Kampe or Kampaz).

14. Lan-wu-li (=Lamuri=Atjeh).

15. Si-lan (=Ceylon).

In addition to the general list of countries subject to
Sen Fo-tsi, ap given above, Chau-Ju-Kua has given separate
accounts of Ling-ya-sei-kia, Tan-ma-ling, Fo-lo-an, Sin-to,
Kien-pi, Lan-wuli and Si-lan.! Among these, the first two
and the last had their own kings, but they sent tributes to
San Fotsi. No king is mentioned in connection with Fo-
lo-an, but the author remarks, “It sends yearly tribute to —
Sen Fo-tsi. Its neighbours Péng-féng, Téng-
Kilan-tan are like it.” According to_Ling-
chief of Fo-lo-an was appointed from San Fo:
be true of all the four states.” As regards Sin-to Chau-Ju-

Kua says: ‘As, however, there is no regular goverment in
this country, the people are given to brigandage, on which
account foreign traders rarely go there.’ About Kien-pi we
are told, “Formerly it was a dependency of San Fo-tsi, but, ——
after a fight, it set up a king of its own.” Nothing is said
about the political status of Lan-wu-li, in the very brief note
which Chau-ju-kua gives more as an introduction to his
account of Si-lan, than as an independent account of that

1 Chew-Ju-Kua, pp. 67-73.
2 Ibid., p. 69, m1.

Google
16 R. C. MAJUMDAR

kingdom. It would thus appear that Kien-pi had recently
shaken off the yoke of San Fo-tsi, but the other fourteen
states were tributary to the power. In spite of a few
uncertainties, the identification of these vassal states, as
given above, would indicate that the empire of San Fo-tsi
included territories in Sumatra, Java and Malay Peninsula.

M. Coedés has attempted to show that although
the empire is called by the old name of San Fo-tsi, the seat
of the empire was now transferred from San Fo-tsi to
Malaya or Jambi.’ His principal argument is that Chau-
Ju-Kua included Palembang among the dependencies of San
Fo-tsi, and as San Fo-tsi is identical with Palembang, the
seat of the empire must be at a place different from
Palembang or San Fo-tsi. He rightly points out that while
describing the empire of Java or Cambodge Chau-JuKua
never includes these names among the list of their vassal
states. But Coedés’ argument, as we have indicated above,
only discounts the view that San Fo-tsi is identical with
Palembang. The absence of Malaya from the list of vaseal
states merely indicates that Malaya was no longer dependent
on San Fo-tsi. But neither the inclusion of Palembang nor
the exclusion of Malaya gives us any right to maintain, in
the face of the express statement of Chau-Ju-Kua about
San Fo-tsi, that that kingdom had yielded its place of pre-
eminence to Malaya.

M. Goedés seeks to support his view by reference to
the Jaiya inscription dated 1184 A.D. which refers to
Maharaja Srimat-Trailokyaraja-mauli-bhiigana-varma-deva
and his governor of Grehi, Mahasenapati Galanai. Coedés
argues that if in 1183 A.D. the name of a king of Malayu
appears in a record of Jaiya, it simply means that “Malayu

had substituted its own authority in place of Srivijaya (cic)
, over the petty states of the Malay Peninsula.”

1 BK, 1927, 459 €.

2 Ibid., p. 469. The Jaiya inscription was originally edited by
M. Coedds (B.E.F.E.0., XVIII, No. 6, pp. 34-5), but the date was wrongly
read.

Google
DECLINE AND FALL OF THE SAILENDRA EMPIRE =|?

But it is a mere gratuitous assumption that Trailokya-
rSja-mauli-bhigana-varma-deva is a king of Malayu. Coedas
evidently relies on the fact that an inscription found at
Padang Rocho in Batanghari district in Jambi, refers to a
king named Maharaja Srimat-Tribhuvanaraja-Maulivarma-
deva, as ruling in 1286 A.D.’ In spite of the resemblance
in the names of the two kings, who lived a century apart,
it would obviously be absurd to regard the royal name as a
monopoly of Malayu, and, in the absence of any other
evidence, to take the earlier king also as a ruler of Malayu,
although hig records have been found in Malay Peninsula
alone. We must remember that the Sailendra emperors
also bore names like Cidamani-Varmadeva.

Further, Edrisi (1154 A.D.) clearly says that the king of
Kalah Zabag and the neighbouring islands lived in the city
of Kalah which is clearly the Kataha of Cola records.”

There is thus no reason to disregard the evidence of
Arab and Chinese writers that the old kingdom of Zabag or
San Fo-tsi continued in its old glory and splendour till the
beginning of the thirteenth century. The Jaiya inscription
has perhaps furnished us with the name of the only individual
emperor of San Fo-tsi of the 12th century A.D. known to us.
For as Grahi has been identified with Chau-Ju-Kua’s Kia-lo
hi, it was a dependent state of San Fo-tsi towarde the end of
the 12th and the beginning of the 13th century A.D. The king
whose dominions included Grahi as a Governor's province
in 1183 A.D. may not therefore, unreasonably be regarded
as a king of San Fo-tsi. It would thus be more proper to
regard the Maharaja Srimat-Trailokya-raja-mauli-bhigana-
varma-deva as a successor of Ciidamani-Varmadeva, though
it is difficult to eay whether he belonged to the same family.

Chau-Ju-Kua’s account of the great power of San Fo-tei
is corroborated by an independent evidence. About the time
when he wrote his book, we come across the name of a king

1 Ferrand, (op. cit. p. 179).
2 Cf. my article in B.EF.E.O., Vol. XXXII, p. 131.

3

Google

I:
is R. C, MAJUMDAR

Candrabhanu in an inscription at Jaiya, dated 1230 A.D.’
Ccedés has established beyond all doubt that this king Can-
drabhanu ig referred to in the Ceylonese Chronicles as
having led two expeditions aganst Ceylon.

The detailed account as given in Cullavamsa may be
summarised as follows.” —~

“In the eleventh year of the reign of king Parakrama-
bahu II a king of Javaka, called Candrabhanu, landed with
an army at Kakkhata, on the pretext that they were
Buddhists and therefore came on a peaceful mission. The
soldiers of Javaka, who used poisoned arrows, treacherously
occupied the passages across the rivers, and, having de-
feated all those who opposed them, devastated the whole
of Ceylon. But the regent Viravahu defeated them in
several battles and forced them to withdraw from the land.
A few years later king Candrabhanu again landed at
Mahatirtha and his army was, on this occasion, reinforced
by a large number of Pandya, Cola and other Tamil
soldiers. After some jnitial successes the Ji army was
surrounded end completely defeated by the Ceylonse troops
under Vijayabahu and Viravahu. King Candrabhanu some-
how fled with his life, leaving behind his family and treasures
in the hands of the victorious enemy.”

The date of these events has been variously interpreted.
But Coedés has established on good authority that the two
invasions of Candrabhanu took place in A.D, 1236 and 1256.°

1 Edited by M. Coeds (B.E.F.E.O.. XVIII, No. 6, p. 32).

2 Cullavamea, i.e., the later continuation of Mahavamsa—ed.
Geiger, Chap. 83, wv. 3648; Chap. 88, wv. 6275. The king of Javake
mentioned in the passage was taken by Kem to refer to a Javanese
king (V.G. Ill, pp. 27 .), but he is now usually taken as a king of
Srivijaya, For a more detailed discussion of the proposed identification
cf. BEFE.O., XXXII, (pp. 133 £).

3 BK, 1927, pp. 459 &. Co:dés has shown that the date usually
assigned to the Ceylonese king Parakramabshu I (A.D. 1240-1275)
should be pushed back by 15 years. He would thus have ruled from
1215 to 1260 A.D. Coedds further points out that the account of Culla-
vamsa is corroborated by the Pali work Jinakila-malini,

Google
DECLINE AND FALL OF THE SAILENDRA EMPIRE 9

Now the inclusion of Ceylon, among the vassal states
of San Fo-tei has been justly regarded as the moet surprising
of all, for although Masudi, in his ‘Meadow of Gold’ (10th
century A.D.) refers to the Maharaja of Zabag as king of
Sirandib of Ceylon’ there is no historical evidence to show
that Ceylon was a vaseal state of the Sailendras.

But even in this respect, perhaps, on the face’ of i
least credible of all, Chau-Ju-Kua’s account is corroborated
to a certain extent by the passage of Cullavamsa quoted
above. For the Ceylonese author admits in a way the
triumph of the Javaka army sometime in 1236 A.D., before
Chau-Ju-Kua concluded his work.

It is obvious that Candrabhanu's invasion of Ceylon was
an act of extreme inprudence and had the most regrettable
consequences. The two expeditions to the distant island
must have taxed the strength of the Javaka kingdom to the
utmost, and the disastrous end of the second expedition
weakened her prestige and authority beyond recovery.

In an inscription, dated 1264 A.D.? Jatavarman Vira.
Pandya claims to have defeated and killed the Savaka king,

and in another jnscription, dated the next year,* he includes |

the king of Kadara among the host of rulers conquered by
him. Savaka is no doubt the same as Javaka and we can

easily take the defeat of the kings of Savaka and Kadara ;
to refer to a defeat of one and the same king, as in the case

of Rajendra Cola. Thus the ill-advised expedition to
Ceylon by the king of Ka was followed at no distant
date by his humiliating defeat and death at the hands of
the Pandya king.

The fact that the Paydya king boasts also of having con-
quered Ceylon, seems to connect the Ceylonese expedition
of Candrabhanu with his defeat and death at the hands of
Jatévarman. It may be recalled that during his second ex-

1 Ferrand—Textes, p. 93.
2 Annual Report of South Indian Epigrophy, 1917, Ins. No. 588
pp. 50, 111.
3 Ibid., 1912, No. 39, p. 72.

Google

20 R. C. MAJUMDAR,

pedition against that island, Candrabhinu was helped by
troops from Cola and Pandya countries. Perhaps he made an
alliance with these two powers and organised a joint expedi-
tion against Ceylon. But like many other similar allied expedi-
tions, jt wae dissolved on the failure of the project, and then
Vira Pandya presumably took advantage of the helpless
; situation of Candrabhanu and turned against him. It is also
" quite likely that he betrayed first his two allies and then
the king of Ceylon, who was temporarily saved by his first
betrayal. This would explain the statement in the inscrip-
tion of 1264 A.D. that Vira Pandya “was pleased to take
the Cola country, Ceylon, and the crown and the crowned
head of Savaka.” In other words he turned against both
his allies and defeated them and ended by conquering
_ Ceylon which was their common objective. This view
seems more reasonable than that a regular naval ex-
pedition was sent by the Pandya king against Kadara or
Savaka.

Candrabhanu who thus met with a tragic end was the
last great ruler of the mighty kingdom founded by the
Sailendras. The fact that he is styled the Savaka king and
king of Kadara, and felt powerful enough to send two
military expeditions to Ceylon discounts the view of Cordés
referred to above, that Malayu had established its supre-
macy over the petty states of Malay Peninsula, which once
acknowledged the suzcrainty of San Fotsi or Zabag. On
the whole, the available evidence would justify us in regard-
ing the last-named kingdom as continuing in power and
glory till the middle of the thirteenth century A.D.

In the Jaiya inscription, Candrabhanu is said to Rave
‘been born in the family of lotus. He is also called Lord of
Tambralinga. It is almost certain, therefore, that he did
not belong to the family of the Sailendras. Chau-Ju-kua

| describes Tambralitiga as a vassal state of San Fo-tsi having
{a separate ruler. It would thus appear that Candrabhanu
had usurped the authority of his overlord by a successful
rebellion. We have seen above that Kien-pi, another vassal
state in Sumatra, had also successfully rebelled against

Google
DECLINE AND FALL OF THE SAILENDRA EMPIRE a

San Fo-tsi about the same time. Thus the disruption of the
empire of San Fo-tsi both in Sumatra as well as in Malay
Peninsula set in at the beginning of the thirteenth century
AD.

The catastrophic end of Candrabhanu completed the
disruption and gave a unique opportunity to the Javanese
king Kytanagara to extend his authority over the dominions of
the Sailendras. He conquered Pahang in Malay Peninsula
which was a vassal state of San Fo-tsi. He also sent an
expedition against Malayu (Jambi) in 1275 A.D., and con-
verted it into a separate state under his own authority. The
Padang Rocha inscription of 1286 A.D., referred to above,
clearly shows that the new kingdom extended far into the
interior and its king Srimat-Tribhuvanaraja-Maulivarmadeva
regarded himself as a vassal of Maharajadhiraja Kytanagara.
Thus Java planted important outposts in the very heart of
the empire of San Fo-tsi from which it could gradually
extend its power and authority in all directions.

For the time being, however, these calculations were
upset by the tragic end of Kytanagara and the fall of his
kingdom. The Javanese army of occupation was withdrawn
from Malayu, and therewith the Javanese authority vanished
from the land. But San Fo-tsi which was not strong enough
to resist the Javanese encroachments was yet too weak to
take advantage of this opportunity to re-aseert its authority
over Malayu. Malayu remained an independent kingdom
and soon became a powerful rival of San Fo-tsi.

The fact is that San Fo-tsi had not only to reckon with
the growing menace from the side of Java, but also to
contend with another great military power, the Thai, who
had conquered Siam and were extending their power
towards Malay Peninsula. The rise of the Thais of
Sukhodaya was an epoch-making event in the history of
Indo-China. Towards the close the the thirteenth century
A.D. they had conquered the northern part of the Malay
Peninsula. We know from the ingcription of king Rama
Gamheng of Sukhodaya, dated 1292 A.D., that $
raja of Ligor, one of the vaseal states of San | o-tsi, had

Google
2 R. C. MAJUMDAR

already been conquered by the king of Siam.’ Thus
hemmed jn between the rising power of the Thais in the north
and the growing kingdom of Malayu in the south, the dis-
comfiture of San Fo-tsi was complete. She lost her position
of supremacy and sank into a local power. Henceforth her
possessions in the Malay Peninsula formed a bone of con-
tention between Malayu and Siam.

San Fo-tsi continued this inglorious existence for nearly
a century. Wang-ta-yuen (1349 A.D.) refers to its king as
‘a local ruler, and says nothing of the great power and
splendour of the Maharaja.? The Nagarakytagama (1365
A.D.) includes Palembang among the list of vassal states
of Java, and the Chinese accounts refer to the conquest of
San Fo-tsi by Java sometime before 1377 A.D. According
to the History of the Ming Dynasty* the Chinese emperor
sent an envoy in 1370 A.D. “to command the presence of
this country, and in the next year (1371 A.D.) the king, who
was called Maharaja Prabu sent envoys with tribute and =
letter written on a golden leaf."”

By the year 1373 A.D. San Fo-tsi was divided into three
states and their rulers, named Tan-ma-sa-na-ho, Ma-na-
ha-pan-lin-pang,* and Seng-ke-liet-yu-lan’ sent envoys with
tribute to the imperial court respectively in 1373, 1374 and
1375 A.D.

In the year 1376 A.D. king Tan-ma-se-na-ho died and
his son Ma-la-cha-wa-li succeeded him. In 1377 A.D. he
sent tribute to the emperor and asked permission of the
imperial court to ascend the throne. This interference of
China jn the affairs of a vassal state caused the just resent-
ment of the Javanese who had conquered San Fo-tsi. They

1 Coed’s—Inscriptions de Sakhodaya (1924) pp. 37-48.
2 T'oung Pao (16) 1915, pp. 61-69.
3 Groeneveldt—WWotes, pp. 68 ff; Ferrand, J.A., -XX (1922)

pp. 24 f.
4 Ferrand (op. cit.) restores this name as Maharaje—Palembang.
5 Ferrand (op. cit.) suggests that this king is identical with the
minister sent by Java to the Imperial Court in 1325 and 1332 A.D.

(op. cit., p. 25, n. 2.

Google
DECLINE AND FALL OF THE SAILENDRA EMPIRE 23

“waylaid and killed the imperial envoys who were bringing
to Merla-cha-wa-li the seal and commission of the king of
San Fo-tsi.

Thus there can be no doubt that Java now exercised an |
effective authority over the kingdom of San Fotsi which
was hopelessly divided and sank gradually into insignificance.
The Chinese historian pathetically remarks, “After thie
‘occurrence San Fo-tsi became gradually poorer and vo eb [
was brought from this country any more.”

During the next twenty-five years the destruction of
San Fo-tsi was completed. Its condition in 1379 A.D. is
thus described in the History of the Ming Dynasty :—

“At that time Java had completely conquered San-bo-
teai and changed its name to Kiu-Kiang.’ When San-bo-teai
went down, the whole country was disturbed and the
Javanese could not keep all the land. For thie reason, the
local Chinese residents stood up for themselves and elected
as their chief a man from Narhai in Canton, called Liang
Tau Ming, who had lived there a long time and roamed
over the ea, and who had the support of several thousand
men from Fu-kien and Canton.”

In other words, a Chinese pirate set himeelf up as
overlord in a part at least of what was once the flourishing
kingdom of the Sailendras, This was no doubt due to the
weakness of Java. Java was able to destroy the old kingdom
but could not build up a new one in its place. Krom even
goes so far as to think, that the destruction of San Fo-tsi |
was a deliberate act on the part of Java. In order to wipe |
off from the face of the earth a power that had been in |
the past, and might be in future, a great rival in political |
and economic spheres, she intentionally and systematically |

| Kiu-Kiang is the Chinese name for Palembang up to the present
day (Groeneveldt—Notes, p. 71, n. 1), but cannot be taken as
equivalent to San Fots . It must have denoted only a part of that
kingdom. I have discussed this point in an atticle in B.E.F.E.O.,
vol. XXIN, p. 135.

Google
4 R. C. MAJUMDAR

laid waste the country, which afterwards became a strong-
; hold of Chinese adventurers.

From the beginning of the fifteenth century A.D. San
Fotsi passes from our view. One or more Chinese
adventurers establish authority in that hapless land from
time to time, but their history and intercourse with the
imperial court, described in detail in the History of the Ming
Dynasty, is outside the scope of this essay.

In conclusion we may refer to Kadara. If we are right
in identifying it with Keddah we may refer to Keddah
Annals (Hikayat Marong Mahavamsa) for the seven Hindu
rulers of the State before the last one adopted Islam in
1474 A.D.

1 R. ©. Winstedt—History of Kedah UJ. Str. Br. R. A. S., No. 81,
p. 29).

Google
The Sailendravamsa
By Dr. J. Przyluski *

The Mahdsudassana-suttanta describes the city of Kusé-
vati, the fabulous residence of an ancient universal monarch
in the following terms :—""The Capital Kusavati, O Ananda,
was surrounded by seven enclosures; one of the enclosures
was made of gold, one of silver, one of beryl, one of crystal,
‘one of ruby, one of coral, and one of all jewels."

Another redaction of the Mahdsudassana-suttanta, insert-
ed in the Vinaya of the Milasarvastivadins, equally attributes
seven enclosures to the city of Kusavati. But these are
made of four precious substances alone, viz., gold, silver,
beryl and crystal.”

Nevertheless, the series of seven jewels reappears in
a text of the Mahasamghika school. The Mahavastu con-
tains a detailed description of Dipavati, capital of the Cakra-
vartin Arcimat. This town has seven enclosures covered
with gold, to which are added “‘seven vedikajalas, brilliant
and beautiful, of seven colours, namely those of gold, silver,
mother-of-pearl, beryl, crystal, coral and ruby."? We
could imagine each enclosure to have been built on a base
covered with gold and surmounted by an open cloister-wall
(vedikajala) analogous to the railings surrounding the Buddhist
stiipas.*

As Kirfel has already observed,’ the city of the Cakra-
vartin inevitably recalls Ecbatana, of which seven enclosures,

© Translated by Dr. U, N. Ghoshal.

1 Dighanik., I, p. 170.

2 Tripifaka, Tokyo edition, XVII, 2, p. 8a; Dalva, Peking
‘edition, XI, f. 250b, Black edition, XI, f. 592b.

3 Mahdvaste, I, p. 1941. 3 and 19-20.

4 Cf. La ville du Cakravartin, Influences bebyloniennes sur le
civilisation de l'Inde, in RO, Vol. V (1927), p. 179 and 180.
5 Die Koemographie der inder, p. 35 &.

4

Google
2B J. PRZYLUSKI

according to tradition, were of diverse colours, those of gold,
silver, orange, blue, purple, black and white.’ Ecbatana
connects itself, besides, at once with the Mesopotamian and
Indian cities. In fact, we know that the city of Uruk passed
for being surrounded by seven walls. It was, besides,
designated by the same ideogram as the rainbow, which
corresponds to the celestial spheres and the planets.’

The relation between the planets, the colours and the
precious substances is a distinctive feature of Babylonian
astrology. These correspondences have again determined
the decoration of the Zikkurats, which, with their central
temple and with their coloured storeye occasionally number-
ing seven, form somewhat the copy of the city of
seven terraces like Uruk and Ecbatana. According to a
cuneiform tablet, deciphered by P. Scheil, the seventh and
the last storey of the tower of Babylon was variegated like the
seventh enclosure of Kusavati after the description of the Pali
eutta, Apart from the two first colours (viz., those of gold
and silver), which are common to the Indian, Iranian and
Mesopotamian series, the list of colours is far from being
constant in the Semitic series. One need not be surprised
at the disagreement which is presented by the other
texte.’

The residence of the Indian Cakravartin like that of the
Babylonian monarch, is made after the model of the terraced
towers surmounted by a temple. The universal monarch
resides there because being like the sovereign of the gods,
he must live like him at the summit of the cosmic mountain.
Sumeru and the Zikkurat, the imperial city and the celestial
temple, might be juxtaposed as equivalent symbols in the
political and the religious order.*

1 Herodote, 1, 98.

2 A. Jeremias, Allorientalische Geisteskaltar, p. 51.

3 For other analogies betwoen the residence of the Cakravartin and
the Mesopotamian cities, cf. La ville da Cakravertin, p. 181 and 182.

4 Simultaneously with my researchen upon the relation between
the Zikkurat and the city of the Cakravartin, Dre. W. F. Stutterheim and
C. L. Fabst have studied the influence of the Zikkarat upon Indian art in

Google
THE SAILENDRAVAMSA 2

These notions once admitted, the question presents
iteelf :. always the same mountain, which is the proto-
type of the imperial city in the countries of Indian
civilisation?”

In the 17th Avadana of the Divydvaddna,’ the Cakra-
vartin Mandhatar crosses the seven mountain ranges, which
form the boundary of Sumeru and instals himself on the
summit at the residence of the thirty-three gods.” It is
clear that according to the redactions of the Buddhist text,
the city of the Cakravartin must be after the model of the
Sekra Devendra, Just as the Indra of gods resides on the
summit of Sumeru, the Indra of men must live on this
mountain, or at least possess a reduced model of the same.

Let us transfer oursclves to the Sivaite milieu. We must
@ priori expect a transposition of these notions: the Sumeru
will be replaced by Kailasa’ or at least the mountain of
the Cakravartin will be considered as the residence of Siva.

The Indian colonies and India itself furnish numerous
examples of royal cities designated by one of the names of
Siva, which indicates the idea that the residence of the
Cakravartin was considered aot the same time as the residence
of Maheévara. | shall only cite « single example, because
it will be useful for understanding what follows.

general and upon the stipa in particular. An exposition and an enlarge-
‘ment of these views will be found in the very important work of M. P. Mus,
in course of publication : Barabudur in BEFEO, Vol. XXXII, pp. 324 ff.

1 This evadana forms part of the Vinaya of the MalasarvistivEdin.
Cf, Duloa, II, f. 327; tr. in Tibetan Tales by Ralston after Schiefner,
story No. I. There are two Chinese translations of this text: (a) Tokyo,
VI, 6 (CE. Chavannes, Cing cent Contes No. 40); (b) Tokyo, XVII, 2,
p. 75a. A much shotter redaction of this coadana is Jatake No. 258.
CE. besides Bodhisattoc-avedinakolpalata, No. 4. and Mahabharata Il,
126.

2 tasya mérdhni devanam troyastriméandm Sudartanem ndma
nageram, Diogto., p. 218.

3. In speaking here of Kailiea, I do not wish to assert that the cos-
mic mountain was called after this name. Some other terms such as
Hemadri, Soarnddri ete. could have equally signified the divine mountain
considered as the abode of Siva, since the commie mountain Kailisa of
Meru fe a mountain of gold.

Google
a J. PRZYLUSKI

Modifying an hypothesis of Gerini, M. L. Finot pro-
posed in 1911 to recognise in the name Fu-nan (ancient
b’a nam) a tranecription of the Khmér unem (modern phnom)
signifying a mountain.’ In 1927 he suggested that the
expression employed by the Chinese historians ‘king of the
country of Fu-nan’ must correspond to an indigenous title
kurun vnam ‘king of the mountain.’ In fact the inscription
of Han-cei calls the king of Fu-nan parvatabhipdla.”

We might discuss this point to find out whether such
expressions as kurun unam and parvatabhapala should be
translated as “king of the mountains’ or otherwise. But this
discussion which would draw us rather far is not necessary
here. What concems us for the moment is to ascertain if
the sacred mountain, which was the holy place of the kings
of Fu-nan, was the residence of Indra or Siva. Now we find
indication of this in the Chinese accounts, which expressly
mention a magical mountain where there was a sanctuary
of Maheévara.’ It is therefore probable that the kings of
Fu-nan possessed a mountain which was a reduced model of
the one where Maheévara sat on his throne.

. .

In a recent article of this Journal.‘ M. Coedés has
tried to demonstrate that the kings of Fu-nan bore the title
of ‘Sailaraja’. We find, on the other hand, a Sailendra
dynasty in Indonesia. M. Coedés builds the following
hypothesis on this analogy: ‘“The Chinese annalists tell us
that the kings of Fu-nan were compelled to emigrate more to
the south to the town of Na-fu-na where they vegetated
perhaps till the end of the seventh century. Now, it was in

1 BCAI, 1911, p. 29.

2 JA, Vol. 210 (1927), p. 186.

3 When the monk Nagasena was sent to China by Jayavarman,
king of Fu-nan, in 484 A.D., the greatest wonder that he narrated was
that there was in that kingdom = mountain called Motan, where the god
Maheévara descended without ceasing and where the plants never
withered. (BEFEO., III, 260)

4 IGIS, Vol. 1, pp. 68:69.

Google
THE SAILENDRAVAMSA, »

the firet part of the following century that there appeared in
Java, the founder of the dynasty of Matarim, to which be-
longed the donor of Kalasan, Rakai Panankaran, ‘ornament
of the Sailendra dynasty’. Must we suppose that these
Javanese kings claimed to be the descendants, or the inheri-
tors of whatsoever title of the Sajlaraja of Fu-nan? One
fact seems to justify this hypothesis. The accession of the
Sailendras of Java in the 8th century coincides with this
obscure period in the history of Cambodia, during which the
Chinese historians inform us that the country was split up
in twain, and the Arab geographers relate that the khmar
country had troubles with Zabug and was compelled finally
to accept its suzerainty.

“These facts accord well enough with the hypothesis
that the descendants, real or fictitious, of the emperors of
Fu-nan after having carved out a dominion in Java in the
firet part of the 8th century afterwards tried to claim back
their ancient poseessions.””

I propose to show that this thesis which is based upon
some conjectures does not exclude other possibilities. There
is nothing to prove that the Indonesian Sailendras belonged
originally to Fu-nan. If, as M. Cosdés admits, the title
*Sailendra’ signifies ‘king of the mountain’, a Cakravartin,
possessing anyhow’ a sacred mountain could be called
“Sailendra’, and no inference can be drawn from the fact,
that this title would be common to the Cakravartin of Fu-nan
and of Indonesia. The last fact itself is very doubtful. To
establish this fact, M. Coedés relies upon the following
passage in the inscription of Kuk Préh Kot :

“‘Sriganavarmma nrpatih prajfiarataikasarpsrayah
Ya sit krantabhuvanas=Sailarajasamunnatih.””

This verse appears simply to signify that king Iéanvar-

man after traversing the earth became superior to the other

1 The word Cakravartin, it ia true, does not always indicate the
sovereign of a very extensive kingdom. The Indo-Chinese and Indo-
esian kings have always abused the Indian title. In the same way, in
modern times the king of Annam did not hesitste to asume the same
tile as the emperor of China,

Google
30 J. PRZYLUSKI

kings in the same manner as Himélaya is superior to the

other mountains." None of the alleged facts appears cap-

able of supporting the inference of M. Coedés, viz., that “‘the

Seilendras of Java claimed connection with ancient

Fu-nan.""? Before framing a historical hypothesis on the use

of the title “Sailendra’, it is proper to seek its exact signi-
* ficance first of all.

Generally speaking, by principle the great Indian
dynasties have at their beginning a divine or supernatural
origin. In the epics Siryavaméa and Somavaméa signify the
royal lines descended from the Sun or the Moon. In
Indonesia and in Indo-China the dynasties often have a
nagi for their ancestor.* Sirya and Soma are vaméa-
karas like the ndgi. Since Indonesian epigraphy mentions
a Sailendravaméa, if the question is asked, what is here the
vaméakara?—the answer necessarily the ‘Sailendra’ and
it is already understood that the Sailendra must be a divine
Personage. In the epics and elsewhere Siva is called Giriéa
and this term is synonymous with ‘Sailendra’. It may,
therefore, be presumed that Sailendra, the divine ancestor
of the Sailendravaméa, is one of the forms of the god Siva.

If this explanation is correct, no inference can be drawn
from the fact that in two distinct lands two dynasties have
borne the same name. That these kings were called
“Sailendra’, ‘Sailaraja’ or otherwise, is no doubt instructive
for the history of beliefs and of culture. But we cannot
draw from it any conclusion concerning the historical origin
of these dynasties.

But are we justified in admitting the equation Sailendra

1 Prof. L. Finot writes to me:—"Your interpretation of the floke
of the inscription of Kuk préh kot is the more admissible, as it seems
to be an echo of a verse from Raghaveméa. Raghu., I, 14.—“sthitah
sarvonnatenoroim krantod Merar iodtmans” :

2 IGIS, Vol. I, p. 8.

3 J. Prayluski, La Princesse a l'odeur de poisson et la ndgt dans les
traditions de Asie Orientale, in Btades Asiatiques, published on the
cccation of the 25th Anniversary of I'Ecole Frangaise d’Extréme-Ortent,
1925, p. 265-284.

Google
‘THE SAILENDRAVAMSA, at

=Siva? Why did not the Indonesians, if they wished to
designate Siva, choose one of his usual names? When
celebrated names such as ‘Mahadeva’ and ‘Maheévara’ were
open to them, why did they prefer an equivalent of ‘Giriéa’,
which could be confounded with the name of Himavat,
called also ‘Sailendra’? The answer to this question must
be sought for in Indonesian mythology.

The Bataks inhabit the north-western half of the island
of Sumatra. In their cosmology the universe is divided into
three worlds: at the top, the world of gods; in the middle,
the earth, where men live; at the bottom, the world of souls
and of demons. The greatest god is Batara guru; his king-
dom is on high; his residence is called Bandjar dolok, ‘City
of the Mountain’; his daughter Sideak parudjar is celebrated
for her achievements; it is she who has created the
world."

Under his Indian name the Batara guru of the Bataks
is probably an old Indonesian deity. Indeed he corres-
ponds to the spirit Tan-vien of the Annamites, who is called
the God of mountains, because he is the god of the highest
mountain. The Indian equivalent of this god is Himavat,
also called Sailendra, whose daughter is the mighty Parvati.
Himavat is the ‘king of mountains’ because he is the god
of the highest mountain. Thies is how the facts could be
represented. When the inhabitants of Sumatra were con-
verted to Hinduism and gave Indian names to their deities,
the king of mountains became ‘Bhattira guru’, that is to
say, he was identified with Siva-Rudra, who dwells in a
mountain since the Vedic period. As ‘king of mountains’
he was qualified to take the title of ‘Sailendra’ and the
Bandjar dolok must have been regarded as the residence of
the god who dwells on Kailasa.

In later times under the influence of Mahayanist beliefs,
Siva was confounded with the supreme Buddha under the

1 J, Warneck, Die Religion der Batak, pp. 4-5 and 26. Wameck
holds that before Betara guru the Batake worshipped « creator-god called
‘Mola diadi, but this hypothesis is contestable.

Google
2 J. PRZYLUSKI

name of ‘Bhattira-Buddha’. In the Tantric treatise Sang
hyang Kamahayanikan, partially written in Old-Javanese,
diverse entities are interspersed between Bhattara-Buddha
and Dhyni-Buddha, and so the former appears as a sort of
Adi-Buddha.' In the Kufijarakerna, an identification is
effected between Siva and Buddha. Buddhapada is des-
cribed as the dwelling-place of Mahadeva and the five
Dhyani-Buddhas are brought on a par with the Sivaite
Kusikas, who are reported to say: ““We are Siva, we are
Buddha". Homage is frequently offered to Vairocana with
the words “Namo Bhatira namah Sivaya”. The Sutasoma
says “God Buddha differs not from Siva the king of
gods."

In short, we discem under the religious elements
furnished by Mahayana Buddhism the ancient belief in a
deity enthroned upon a high mountain, to whom therefore
properly belongs the title of ‘Sailendra’ and who has been
successively identified with Siva Giriéa and the supreme
Buddha. It is he, probably, that was represented at the
summit of Barabudur.* It is from him finally that the
Sailendravaméa derives its origin, and that is why the Great
King (Maharaja) has the same nature as the Great God
(Mahadeva). These traditions have persisted during the
centuries. In the Pararaton, king Krtanagara is described
as Siva-Buddha and, according to the testimony of the
Nagarakrtagama (43/5), he died in the Sivabuddhaloka.*

.

. .
It is known from diverse sources that the kings of the
Sailendra dynasty bore the title of Maharaja. This title

1 Stutterheim, Tjandi Baraboedar, pp. 5455.

2 Cf..N. J. Krom, Barabudar, 11, p. 303. The facts which prove
the identification of Siva with the supreme Buddha have been collected
by Mr. Himansu Bhusan Sarkar in a recent note in Indian Culture,
(Oct. 1934, pp. 284-286).

3 In my view the numerous authors who have written upon Bare-
budur have all exaggerated the importance of the Buddhist element, while
neglecting the Sivaite and properly Indonesian beliefs.

4° Himanru Bhusan Sarkar, Indian ‘Culture, Oct. 1934, p. 285.

Google
THE SAILENDRAVAMSA 33

seems at first sight to be banal enough, but if we replace it
in history, it caries a significance which the simple etymology
does not permit us to guess. Inscriptions of the Kugana
Period contain three titles—maharaja, rajatiraja and deva-
putra. Only the late Ara inscription adds a fourth title,
which Prof. Liiders read as kaisara, and this reading which
is doubted by M. S. Lévi' is supported by M. S.
Konow. However, it is the title Maharaja which concerns
us here and its reading js not doubtful.

“Professor Liiders,”* writes Sten Konow, “has drawn
attention to the fact that the titles used in the inscription
find a kind of commentary in the ancient notion about four
‘emperors, the ‘sons of heaven’ of China, India, the Roman
Empire and the Yiie Chi, as they are styled in Chinese
translations of Buddhist works. The tradition about the four
“gone of heaven’’ has been examined by Professor Pelliot,
who shows that it was known over a large area at an early
date. If it is of Indian origin, we should expect the arrange-
ment of the four kingdoms to be India, Iran, China and the
Roman Empire, and such an arrangement is clearly reflected
in the titles of our inscription, where mahdraja is the Indian,
réjatirgja the Iranian, devaputra the Chinese, and keisara
the Roman title."*

Thus in the inscriptions of the Kugana period maharaj
has a particular value. It forms part of a series of three
or four titles which confers upon its possessor the imperial
dignity and probably the suzerainty over three or four
regions. Among these regions it seems that the south cor-
responds to the Maharaja. In assuming this title he perhape
pretended to claim the imperial authority over the South.’

1 JA., Vol, 224 (1934) p. 17.

2 Corpus Inscriptionam Indiceram, Vol. I, part I, p. 163. On the
notion of the four empires, cf. P. Pelliot in T’oung Pao, 1923, p. 97 &
and J. Przyluski, Le symbolieme du pilier de Sarnath, in Mélanges
Linossier, p. 495

3 In the account of the Arab traveller Sulayman (tr. Ferrand), wo
ead that “Kalih-bir forms part of the empire of Jawaga the
empire of the Maharije) which is situated to the south of Indi

5

Google
EY) J. PRZYLUSKI

It is the more jnteresting to notice that in an un-
fortunately obscure passage of the inscription of Ligor
(Face B), there is perhape opposed to the Maharaja of
Sailendravaméa, a Vignuite king (because he is called Vignu)
who has the title of rajadhiraja corresponding, according to
the theory of Prof. Liiders, to the region of the West.

Tt seems that at the end of the first millennium the title
Maharaja still preserved the prestige which it enjoyed at the
time of the Ytie-Chi. At the beginning of the same era,
Maharaja seems to signify the sovereign of the southern
doipa, that is of Jambu-dvipa. It is the same title which
the kings of the Sailendra dynasty have retaken; but without
doubt at this epoch there was added to the same a Sivaite
nuance. Maharaja in the world of men is what Mahadeva
is in the world of gods, and it is because he traces his lineage
to Mahadeva, that the king is Maharaja. The relation of
these two notions can thus be made to throw light on the
following passage of the jnscription of Ligor rectified by
M. P. Mus and often quoted :—

“Sailendravamsaprabha[va] nigadatah Srimahdrajanama’

We can now understand that the king bore the title of
Sri Maharaja, because he must have been invoked on account
of his divine origin. He was a king of the Sailendravaméa
‘and this is why he was addressed in the tone of a prayer
(nigada) and was called Sri Maharaja.’

In partially accounting for the use of the titles Sailendra
and Maharaja through a Sivaite influence, are we not
placing ourselves in contradiction to the historic data, which
prove the expansion of Mahayana Buddhism under these
kings? Certainly not: since from the beginning, Indonesian
Mahayanism is strongly tainted with Hinduism, as is proved
notably by the inscription of Kelurak, where it is said that
“Manjuvak contains all gods,—Brahma, Vignu and Mahe-
évara."" A royal title could persist in spite of the changes

of religion. In the West the pagan title of Ceesar has been
borne through the centuries by Christian kings, the German

1 Cf. im the last place, G. Cosdés, JGIS., 1, 2, p. 67.

Google
THE SAILENDRAVAMSA 35

Kaiser and the Russian Czar. Besides it is known that
before the Mahayanist push of the 8th century, Sivaism was
planted in Java. The Janggal inscription (732 A.D.) relating
to king Saiijaya of Central Java records that the first Saiva
temple in Java was erected by a Brahman clan of the
Agastya gotra and that the model of this temple was derived
from a Saiva temple in Kunjara Kunjadeéa, a sacred site in
Southern India on the banks of the Tuigabhadra.

Before the Mahayanist influence, whose origin must be
sought in Northern India and principally among the Palas of
Bengal, the great Indonesian islands knew a Sivaite period
marked by a close contact with Southern India. This
Sivaite influence has not left its tracea only in the religious
domain. It must likewise have made itself felt also in the
social and political organisation. “The intimate intercourse
between South India and Sumatra js indicated,"” says Dr. R.
C. Majumdar, “by some existing Sumatran clan-names, such
as Choliya, Pandiya, Meliyala, Pelawi, which may be easily
identified with the Chola, Pandya, Malayalam, and
Pallava.""? Dr. R. C. Majumdar has justly abstained from
specifying at what epoch these South Indian names were
introduced into Sumatra. Nevertheless, the inscription of
Janggal as well as the facts studied above makes us think
that the intercourse between South India and Sumatra com-
menced from before the 8th century and that this jntercourse
had for its result in the religious domain the propagation of
$ivaism and in the political domain the rive of the Sailendra ;

power.

APPENDIX
The preceding study permits the interpretation of a
passage from a Chinese text, which has embarassed its
interpreters, This passage is extracted from the notice
relating to the empire of San-fots'i in the Chu fan Chi of

1 0. C. Gangoly, The Art of Jave, p. 4.
2 JGIS., 1. 2, p. 91 and other references in the foot note.

Google
% J. PRZYLUSKI

Chau Ju-Kua written in 1226. (Cf. Chau Ju-Kua, His work
on the Chinese and Arab trade in the twelfth and thirteenth
centuries, entitled Chu-far-tchi, tr. by F. Hirth and W. W.
Rockhill, 1912; P. Pelliot, T’oung Pao, t. Xill, 1912,
pp. 446-481; G. Ferrand, L’empire sumatranais de Srivijaya,
p. 10).

: P. Pelliot translates thus :—"There is a Buddha who is
called the Buddha of the Mountain of Gold and of Silver.
His statue is cast in gold. Each king, [just] before mounting
the throne, causes his [own] statue to be cast in gold to
replace that statue. Vases and plates of gold are made and
solemn homage is paid to that image. The golden statues,
the vases and plates, all of them bear inscriptions so that
the future generations may not destroy them."

M. G. Ferrand interprets the same passages as
follows :—"‘There is [at San-fo-ts'i] a [sort of] Buddha,
[that is to say, a statue] called ‘Mountain of gold and of
silver,’ which is cast in gold.""?

The context clearly indicates that that statue is that of
the king and changes with each reign. The use of the word
Buddha, which is applied to it in the Chinese text, might
be due to two reasons:—(a) Thi statue was the object of
a cult analogous to what is rendered to the statue of Buddha;
(b) it was the statue of a king identified with Siva-Buddha.
The first fact emerges from the notice in Chu fan Chi iteelf,
the second from what I have said above.

The text can be explained thus:—"'There is an idol
which is called the idol of the mountain of gold and
silver. ‘* This mountain could only be the cosmic
mountain or its representation because it is known that this
mythic mountain is made of precious metals. The custom
reported by Chau Ju-Kua can be explained in the light of
the ideas developed above. The emperor being identified
with the king of the gods must be enthroned on the cosmic
mountain: that is why his statue is placed at the top and
worship is paid to him in that place.

1G. Ferrand, L’Empire sumatransis de Srivijaya, p. 10, n. 3.
2G. Ferrand, ibid., p. 10,

Google
Migration of indian decorative motifs

By Devaprasad Ghosh.

(1) Caitya-window arch.

The romantic history of the typical Indian device
(Gavakea), illustrates the amazing process of transformation
of a purely architectural motif into a decorative device of
elegant beauty and rhythmic grace, having in the end but
8 remote resemblance with the original pattern. By constant
association with the early Indian Caitya-halls (both rock-cut
and structural), the horse-shoe openings have derived their
ordinarily accepted nomenclature as Caitya-windows. The
Lomas Rei cave in the Barabar Hills, Bihar, offers the earliest
example of this type.’ The original wooden prototype of
this ogee arch, lined with purlins, can be clearly made out
from this and later examples. From the 3rd century B.C.,
to the 16th century A.D.—for nearly two millenniums—the
unbroken development of this motif throughout India proper
is an indication of the wonderful unity and continuity of
Indian art.”

We may now enquire whether any simultaneous
development was going on in the neighbouring lands of
Campa, Cambodia and Java. In Indo-China itself, the
people of which revelled in the art of decoration, the utter
simplicity and stagnation of this everchanging Indian
omament, is indeed disappointing.’ The Gavakgas of Indo-
China and early Java are unduly flat, extremely broad and

1 Coomaraswamy, A.K.—History of Indian and Indonesian Art, pl.
IX, 28.

2 This is treated in detail in my forthcoming work on “Decoratios
Art of Orissa."*

3A very important article, relating to the later transformation of
this motif in Cambodia, “Concerning some Indian influences in Khmer
An by Countess Coral-Rémusat appears in Indian Art & Letters, second
iaaue for 1933. pp. 110-21

Google
8 DEVAPRASAD GHOSH.

monotonously plain without bead-mouldings, side wings and
Kirttimukha finials. A welcome variety is sought to be
created by breaking the inner line into double curves in
Tjandi Bhima. It is difficult to trace any window pattem
in the stupendous Boro-Budur at a superficial glance.
However, a closer scrutiny will reveal that the miniature
decorative ornaments embellishing the parapets of each
tier, are nothing but the full-Aedged Indian device, com-
pletely resolved into scrolls.’ Its various elements which
are clearly perceptible, resemble the ornament from the
temple of Sobhalde at Saladdapur, Jaipur, to a surprising
extent.

But the ingenuity of the Javanese craftsmen lies in
skilfully converting the Gavakgae into magnificent Toranas.
The portals and niches of Central Java monuments, e.
Tiandi Kalasan and Boro-Budur, are crowned by fantastic
Kirttimukhas and richly wrought jamb carvings, which
descending from their mouths end in graceful sweeping
Makara spouts (fig. 2).

“The very Kala-Makera ornament’’ says Dr. Vogel.
“though undoubtedly derived from Indian Art is the outcome
of an indigenous combination and development. -both
the decorative device and the gateway which it adorns are
not Indian but Indo-Javanese and the same may be said
with regard to the monument to which they belong.”"? We,
however, contend that of the so-called Kala-Makara motif,
not only the elements, but the whole design itself, is purely
Indian. In our opinion the peculiar combination of the Kala
and Makera motifs was not evolved by the indigenous
followers of the Indian master-builders of Java, but was
known to Indian art long before.. In the centuries imme-
diately following the Christian era, floral devices are noticed
to issue out of the distended jaws of the gaping Makaras in
the Bharhut, Sanct and early Amaravati art. Even as early

1 Krom—Hindoe-Jawaansche Kunst, Vol. III, pl. 29.
2 Vogel—"The Relation between the Art of India and Java,”
Influences of Indian Art, London, 1925, p. 62.

Google
Fig. 1. Caitya-window, Bhuvanesvara, Fig, 2. Caitya-arch,

Orissa. India. Central Java.

5

Big. 3. Caituearch, Tang dynasty, Fig. 4. Caitye-arch, Yuan dynasty
China. China.

Sketches by DP.
IGAS., Vol. M. No. I, 1935.

Google
Original from

Digitized by Google UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
MIGRATION OF INDIAN DECORATIVE MOTIFS 39

as the Ist century B.C., Makaras are placed at the springing
of the semi-circular arch-bands in the Ganega Gumpha, Rap!
Gumpha and Jaya-Vijay caves on the Udayagiri Hill in
Orissa.! Arch-bands are also frequently made to start from
Mokara mouths in the interior side walle of the aisles of
Cave XXVI at Ajanta.’ The representation of the Makaras
and Kirttimukha head at the springing and crown, res-
pectively, on the facade of the 5th century monument (Cave
No. XIX) at Ajanti is well known. Moreover, the entire
window device seems to flow out of the grinning head of the
Kirttimukha (fig. |) with the usual Makara spouts projecting
outwards from each side in the Vaital Deul temple in
Bhuvaneévara (c. 8th century A.D.).’ To crown all, the
beautiful Torana in front of the Mukteévara temple, Bhuva-
neévara (c. 950 A.D.) is decorated with two exquisitely
carved Makara heads, which project boldly outwards from the
springing of the arch.‘ Similarly, the tre-foiled arches, form-
ing the background of the Paréva Devatda of the Litgaraja
temple, Bhuvanegvara, are capped by a Kirttimukha accom-
panied with Makara projecting spouts at the usual place.

In the face of these facts, it is difficult for us to accept
the theory of Dr. Vogel that it was left to the indigenous
artists of Java to combine the Kirttimukha and the Makara
into an organic motif. On the contrary, it is our strong
conviction that the combined motif, represented by the
Caitya-window niches, migrated to Java from Orissa itself.
Recent researches tend to show a close dynastic connection
between Kalinga and Indonesia. In fact, Dr. Coedés has
lately accepted the view of myself and Dr. R. C. Majumdar
that the Sailendras of Srivijaya originated from the Sailod-
bhavas of Orissa.‘

1 Fergusson & Burgess—Cave Temples o” India, pl. 1.

2 Havell E.B.,—Ancient and Mediaeval Architecture of India, pl. 46.

3 Banerji, R.D.—History of Orissa, Calcutta, 1931, Vol. Il, pl.
facing p. 348.

4 Ibid., pl. facing p. 24.

5. (a) Condds, G.,—On the Origin of the Sailendras of Indonesia,
IGIS., Vol. 1, No. 2.

Google
“0 DEVAPRASAD GHOSH

Leaving aside for the moment Indonesia, where the
recurrence of this favourite Indian decorative formula is not
surprising, let us turn to the north to explore traces of its
overland migration, Is it accidental that in China itself the
Caitya-arch motif is strongly recalled by the flat ogee arches
supported by two polygonal pilasters ending in lotus capi-
tals, at the entrance and ineide the caves of Lung Shan in
Shansi?' By strange coincidence, also, the paire of phoenix
birds or dragons at the springing of the arches are curiously
reminiscent of their Indian prototypes, the Hamea and the
Makara respectively. As we shall see presently, this complex
design re-appeared in the art of the Yuan dynasty (fig. 4). A
simplified form of the arch js to be found over door-ways of
the T'ang period in Chili,” having a close affinity with early
Mathura types (fig. 3).’=

Turning from the Far East to the Near East, our atteption
is arrested by the presence of some curiously shaped ancient
monolithic tombs in Lycia in south-western Asia Minor,
among a series decidedly Hellenistic in character.”
Archaeologists have long wondered as to their origin. How-
ever, the single rectangular cellas surmounted by barrel
vaulted roofs, immediately recall to the mind some of the
monolithic Rathas at Mamallapuram‘ and the structural
Caitya-halls at Ter and Chezarla.‘ s it possible that the
arched gables of the sacrophagus tombe at Telmessus in
Lycia, fringed with purlins, were inspired by Indian pro-
totypes? It must be admitted that the Indian feeling hes

(&) Ghosh. D.P.,—Relation behoeen Buddha images of Orissa and
Jeve, Modem Review, Calcutta, Nov. 1933.
(©) Majemdar, R. C.—Les Roie Sallendra de Savarpadcipa,
BEFEO., t. XXXII, fase. 1, p. Ml.
1 Siren, ©.,—Chinese Scalptare, London. 1925, ple, 207, 208, ete.
2 Ibid., ple. 535, 536.
2a Coomareswamy, Early Indian Architecture, Eastern Art, Vol. Ill,
figs. 43, 66.
3 Keene, J. C.—The Lyctan Citles of the Xanthus River Valley,
Art and Archooology, Washington, May-June. 1934, figs. 3, 4 and II.
4 Havell—Op. cit., pl. XXIV.
3 Cooearsewamy—H.L.L.A., pl. XXXV, 147.

Google
MIGRATION OF INDIAN DECORATIVE MOTIFS a

been emphasized by the introduction of a homed bull's head
as the finial of such arch on the facade of a rock-out tomb
at Pinara, strikingly resembling the Caitya-window arch with
its horned Kirttimukha finial (fg. 5.).

2. KIRTTIMUKHA

The Kirttimukha or the “glorious face’’ is another typi-
cal decorative symbol which penetrated all the lands where.
Indian art and culture travelled or left its impress. It is a
fantastic lion face with spiralic horns, terrible goggle eyes,
curling whiskers and a hideons grimace ejecting flames.
As an auspicious symbol and protecting agent it always
crowns the Caitya-arches in architecture, decorative niches
in sculpture and Prabha-toranas of the images, besides filling
some minor offices in early mediseval India.

Tt received a fresh and vigorous lease of life in the
colonies. Some of the earliest specimens in Ceylon, have
been referred to in detail by Mr. O. C. Gangoly.’ In
medizeval Simhalese art, the full face detached of a Simha,
called Kibhi-muna, “is most often seen in Makara-torana,
where it forme the central feature in the position of
the keystone of the arch; and it is used in design as the
starting-point of the sprays and branches of foliacious orna-
ment.""? The row of ogre-heads disgorging chaplets of
pearls, is the chief decorative element of most of the pagodas
and temples of Burma from the IIth to the 13th century A.D.,
e.g., Seinnyet, Mahabodhi, Nanpaya, Dammayazaka,
Gawadawpalin and Tilominlo—all at Pagan. Although in
comparatively low relief and characterized by broad and
stunted features, the earlier specimens are full of round
and flowing lines, But the later reproductions, employed
on the piers inside the Nanpaya temple, Myinpagan, are
noted for the extremely floriated forms in low relief. The
orate character of the device is further augmented by the

1 Gangoly—"'A note on Kirttimukha: being the life history of an
Indian architectural ornament.” Répam, January, 1920, pp. 12-13.
2 Coomaraswamy—Mediasval Simhalese Art, p. 86, fig. 23.

Google
a2 DEVAPRASAD GHOSH

elongated and dangling ornamental foliages, inside the
loops of pearl festoons. “‘Even in its conventionalised
form as illustrated in the decoration of the Nanpaya temple
(Fig. 17), it offers variations which cannot be said to be
derived from successive copying of the patterns of India
Proper. So that, the examples of this decorative device met
with outside India cannot be said to be derived by a direct
line of descent from the patterns of the main land."? We
do not concur with this opinion. For 90 far as the design of the
Nanpaya temple is concemed (fig. 7), it is more than obvious
that this particular combination was derived from Orissan
monuments across the Bay of Bengal (fig. 6). However, the
most astonishing factor in Burmese architecture is, that inspite
of the universal application of the Makara-Torana, the Kirtti-
mukha is strongly absent from, its traditional place at the
top. Still we can discern from the images of Buddha, that
in the domain of sculpture proper, it could not be dislodged
from its hallowed position on the finial of the Prabha-
Torana.*

Next it is easy to detect strongly marked South Indian
influences in the “ glory face” depicted on a stone fragment
from Prapatom in Siam.? Its representation in the Cham
monuments, however, is extremely scarce, although it can
be recognised in a highly stylized form, composed of inco-
herent spirals, on the pedestal supporting a sitting Siva, from
the grand temple of Dong-doung.* This is almost similar to
the types illustrated on some rectangular panels on the
pedestals supporting figure sculpture in the Jagamohana of
the Siirya temple at Konarak. It is more common in

1 Fergusson—History of Indian and Eastern Archifectare, Vol. Il,
pl. XXXV.

2 Gangoly—Op.

3 Cohn, W.,—Indiscl

4 Duroiselle—Excavation st Hmawza, Prome, ASIAR., 1911-12, pl.
LXVIIL, 5.

5 Salmony—Sculpture in Siam, pl. 4, a.

6 Parmentier—Les Sculptures Chames, Ars Asiatica, Vol. VI, pl.
XXVIIL

Google
Fig. 5. Caitya-arch, Laycia, Asia Minor.

Fig. 6. Kirttimukha, Konarak, Fig. 7. Kirttimutha, Pagan,

India Burma,

Fig, 8. Kirttimukha, Lung-Men, China,

Sketches by D.P. G.

IGS, Vol. U, No. 1, 1935.

0 Google

Original from

Digitized by Google UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
MIGRATION OF INDIAN DECORATIVE MOTIFS B

Cambodia, in the pre-Khmer and classical epochs alike.
Elegantly chiselled broad and stunted faces, defined by
graceful rhythmical curves, emitting festoons and surrounded
by floral devices, decorate the mouldings of the Sambor-
Preikuk group of the pre-Khmer period.’ The classical
examples, however, are different in character and more
conventional. They are often noticed, on the door lintels in
the centre of a rambling luxuriant foliage starting, as usual,
from its gaping mouth. The head, unlike the Indian pro-
totype, is circumscribed by a sharp tre-foil outline, while the
jaw set with pointed bristling fangs describes a shallow
curve. Little ornamental horns grow from above the eyes.”
But, it is not until we reach Java, that the “glory face”
is found to reach the climax of its glory and “the zenith of
its artistic sensibility." The Kirttimukha (Kala or Banaspati
of the Dutch archeeologists) is the omament “par excellence
of Java, where it assumes a majestic form and a definite
architectonic character."” As an indispensible adjunct for the
upper part of niches and arches it gradually develops into the
arch itself, in which “the head forms the keystone and the two
radiating necks terminating in ‘makaras’ constitute the two
abutments (fig. 2). The most typical example of this novel
use is here borrowed from Tjandi Kali Bening, near Kalasan
It is not until its purely decorative and artistic
feature, with all the exuberance of legendary or fanciful
suggestion, combines with its structural or constructive
function, that the Kirttimukha realises the supreme crowning
moment of its life and may be said to have attained the apex
of its career."’* Dr. Stutterheim in a searching article has
recently tried to explain the origin, composition and under-
lying symbolism of this so called “Kala-Makara’’ ornament,
froma novel and interesting angle.""* A critical analysis will

1 Parmentier—L’ Art Khmér Primitif, pl. XVI.

2 Arta et Archaeologie Khmers. Il, fase. 3, 1926, pl. 32 B.

3 Gangoly—Op. cit., p. 18, fig. 30,

4 Stutterheim—The Meaning of the Kala-Makera ornament. Indian
‘Art and Letters, Vol. 1, 1929, pp. 27-52.

Google
4 DEVAPRASAD GHOSH

reveal that the gigantic central Javanese Kirttimukha pieces
are greatly elongated horizontally. The ornamental folds
cover the oblique eyes are reminiscent of Calukyan types; but
the tusks curve inwardly and the Makara pairs are translated
into Sardulas, emerging from the corner of the jaws. Fran-
tastic horns, curly manes are denoted by fiery ornamental
scholls, growing upwards in fluttering agitation—the most
striking element in the composition.’ The upward urge of the
vibrating spirals is admirably balanced by the broad sweep
of undulating curve determining the distended jaw. Though
elaborately treated, the superb modelling and ample breadth
of composition are complemented by symmetrically dis-
posed elegant and spreading curves. The Kala head, from
Candi Singa-siri, however, is more severely treated. It is
leas elaborate, more round in shape and notably gains in
relief and volume. It appears to have a greater resemblance
than anything else, with the archaic “glory face’ of the
Sarnath Gupta lintel.*

Regarding the “‘Tao-tich” form of the early Chinese
bronzes, Mr. Gangoly has already pointed out that “it has
more than an accidental resemblance to the Kirttimukha both
in ite fundamental outline and its conventional representa-
tion in which the features of the original ‘lion face’ have
been skilfully dissembled."* Further investigation has
enabled us to discover a series of typical Indian Kirtti-
mukhas in Chinese art beginning from the 5th century A.D.
This tangible evidence of Indian influence in the monuments
of China, js a matter of no surprise, when we remember the
brisk pol 1 and religious intercourse which commenced
from the close of the 4th century between the two neigh-
bouring lands.

‘The first instance of the crude lion masks in Chinese art
can be traced in the round-eyed and tusked monsters which

1 Krom—L' Art Javanais, Ars Asiatica, Vol. Vill, pl. 1.

2 The survivel of the Kirttimukha motif in Polynesia has been
pointed out by Dr, Panchanan Mitra in an on Indian and Poly-
nesian art in Journal of the Indian Society of Oriental Art, Dec., 1933,

p. 14, i .

Google
MIGRATION OF INDIAN DECORATIVE MOTIFS cy

are employed to fasten the curtain framing the niche con-
taining the Buddha image in Cave XXVI at Yun-Kang.’ By
the early part of the 6th century, the Chinese sculptor had
thoroughly mastered the significant form of the Indian “glory
face’ as distinguished from the indigenous “‘Tao-tich.” In
the decorative scheme of the Grotto of the Kuyangtung at
Lungmen, the prominent features of the Kirttimukha are
portrayed in varying degrees of low relief. All the peculiar
elements of a typical Gupta prototype” are present in the
flying locks of hair, goggle eyes, omamental horns and the
terrible array of fangs flanked by a pair of small tusks (fig. 8.).
The unequivocal testimony of jts Indian origin is furnished by
the traditional festoons of pearls (here twisted), interspersed
with ormamental buckles, which dangle from the grinning
mouths and intersect one another.’ That this typically Indian
device did not meet with a premature end on the Chinese
soil, is amply borne out by a votive stele from Shansi of the
T'ang period, containing a niche of Sakyamuni Buddha,
surmounted by symmetrically disposed tasseled * pearl
garlands issuing from a boldly carved “‘lion-face."*

It might be mentioned in this connection that Koop in
his compendious volume on “The Early Chinese Bronzes"
has all along characterised the ““Tao-tieh” designs of the
vessels of the First, Second and Han (or the Third) style-
periods, as the ogre or monster masks, while the ornamental
forms appearing in the T'ang (or the Fourth) style period, are
distinguished as “‘lion-masks.’’* Thus he indirectly supports
our assumption, that the fantastic decorative emblems, asso-
ciated with the Buddhist remains only, are lineally descended
from an extra-Chinese prototype, instead of the typically
indigenous pattern. Further we find that festoons emanat-
ing from lion-heads, continued to be represented in Buddhist
sculptures of the Sung period. But we are really amazed

pl. 62.
Plastik, pl. 24, (Deogarh temple}
pl. 80.

Ibid., pl. 509.
Koop—Early Chinese Bronzes, pl. %.

wane

Google
oJ DEVAPRASAD GHOSH

when we unexpectedly come across the combined Makera-
Kirttimukha design, in its Chinese version, in the Lung Hu ta
pagoda at Sen T'ung ssee, constructed as late as the Yuan
dynasty. The doorways of the square cella, are crowned
with characteristic ogee arches, decorated at the finials by
boldly projecting Kirttimukha heads and terminating in
awful enormous gaping Makaras in highly stylized forms.?
They also enclose within their sweep other figure sculptures
of exuberant richness, recalling the inevitable components of
the Caitya-window arches of Indian and Indonesian art (fig. 4.).
It speaks not a little for the remarkable vitality and aggres-
siveness of the Indian motifs, that they could penetrate into
and thrive on the Land of Pagodas, at the expense of the
mighty all-pervading Dragon and the Phoenix bird.”

1 Siren—Op. cit., Vol. Ill, pl. 617.

2 For the migration of the Makara motif to Greater India and
China see my article “Makera in Indian Art” in Calcutta Review, October,
1930 of, “De Makara In De Indische Kunst,” Djawa, 10 Jaargang No. 6,
Einde 1930, pp. 191-196.

Google
A Sanskrit Treatise by a Tibetan Author
By Pandit Vidhushekhara Bhattacharya.

There are hundreds, nay thousands, of books translated
from Sanskrit into Tibetan by Indians and Tibetans jointly,
but s0 far no work was found that is rendered into Sanskrit
from an original Tibetan by an author who himeelf is a
Tibetan. But thanks to Baron A. von Staél-Holstein, our
Sanskritists and specially those of India, the land of Sanskrit,
will feel extremely glad to know that he has brought out
such a text in the Bulletin of the National Library of Peiping,

Peiping, 1932, on which the following few lines are
based.

It is a booklet and is reproduced in the Journal referred
to above by the Baron from seventeen plates of a xylograph.
Each folio contains in the following order:

1, The Sanskrit version in the old Indian script.

2. The transliteration of the same in the Tibetan
character.

3. The original Tibetan text.
4. The Mongolian version of the Tibetan text.

5. The Chinese translation of the text inscribed on the
lower margin of Staél-Holstein’s copy by one Mr. Ku
Hua Fu.

The original Tibetan text, as the colophon shows, is the
composition of Dam pa (or Uttama in Sanskrit). And the
Sanskrit translation seems also to have been made by him.
In the Sanskrit colophon the author's name is Uttala ad
of Uttama. This may be due to a mistake of the maker
of the xylograph. The epithet of the name of the author in
both the colophons, Tibetan and Sanskrit, appears to have

Google
48 VIDHUSHEKHARA BHATTACHARYA

the same sense, the former reading lha bris (=deva-citra-
kara) and the latter citrakara.

The name of the text is Bla mahi mal hbyor or Gurayoga
in Sanskrit. It is also described in the author's own words
as Guru-upacdrakrama and called Tugitaraja.*

It deals with the method of worship well-known in
Mahayana Buddhism, taking refuge (Saranagamana), the
production of the thought of enlightenment (bodhicittotpada),
the contemplation of the infinite, i. e., four apramanas or
brahmaviharas: maitri, karund, mudita and upekga, the
invitation of the kgetra (keetrakargana), etc.

Sanskritists and specially those of India will naturally feel
curious to know how a Tibetan Pandit writes Sanskrit.
In order to satisfy their curiosity the Sanskrit portion only
of the booklet is reproduced below as it isin the xylograph
with no emendation whatsoever though this is absolutely
necessary for understanding the meaning. We have
however added foot-notes to help the reader to catch the
exact meanings of the Sanskrit words. For the sake of
elucidation their Tibetan equivalents have also been quoted
where necessary.

The author is a Buddhist, and readers will find that
his Sanskrit is in no way better than what is known as
Bud Sanskrit. Sometimes it is even worse. It is full
of mistakes from beginning to end. The Sanskrit
knowledge of the author is so poor that he cannot
often write Sanskrit words correctly. In this respeet he
may be compared with Chinese Sanskritists, Li Yen and
Yi-tsing, authors of the Sanskrit-Chinese dictionaries Fan yu
tsa ming and Fan yu ts’ien tsen wen respectively.”

1 The actual reading is tugitérdja ndma not tupite®, Tib. would
however read fupitadevaraja (dgah Idan Iha rgyal mo).

2 See Prabodh Chandra Bagchi: Deux Lexiques Sanskrit—Chinois.
Sino-Indica, Publications de l'Université de Calcutta, Tome Il.

Google
A SANSKRIT TREATISE BY A TIBETAN AUTHOR ”

Sanskrit Text
Ua) qeata fiers:
(Me) a corre | or gee TET TATORT |
Ub] sfefefir seater deereenfit | get satel a eer: aegfat
feet: (Illa) a (1) eerafe meq se eT! AAT TERT
sreagrerra 0° eet
ge rete reg"! reat? |
aay’ arfieft  arreat!! rroef 1?
[1Va] wetarereet ervey"! creamer 1?
axfa fiers 1'*
fixette eefereegecrqaa 1'*
aga « ngiea' tg
[IVb] ererer® etifia 8 erent? erent 17°
Fa aaa
Sarfrerseg erent fee u?

3 ted (gum).
which gives no meaning:

1 ‘go vijahira (biugs). 2 kin

4 Tib. transliteration wrongly reads vesdunil
Tib. dios gH meaning simply vasta.

5 Visargah? In the sense of avasina, paicit (mjug).

6 kramena

7 wtpadana. Tib. simply sems, citta, evidently for ciltotpidana.

8 For apraména, Tib. tshod med, four brahmavihéras.

9 traya; but Tib, construction would have trapat (geum las).

10 Prathama saranga’ ; for prathama, Tib. dan po.

Il éaranem. 12 gacchami.

13° sattodn. ‘14 maty.

15 “triodra akta. 16 bodhicittot®.

17 *tlama*. 18 yavat, 19 derepam.
20. gecchami.

21 Tib, reads: bdag gi abyin voge pa avis pa hdi dog gis which sug-
2 For this Tib. hes: hgro la phon phyir sans reyes herab par fog
suggesting jegalo hitiya baddhah siddhanta,

7

Google
50 \VIDHUSHEKHARA BHATTACHARYA,

[Va] fteta sreveqrerran
wanft ened 3 ateg?
ararfes dgee 4 seitery
a gefeat caaenfa gerg
[Vb] aaiteseratat sfereay 1

wea wig’ Qarete: eergara:’ fefawet:'? at aafeat

[Via] wea rare Rearwrra
afer cred are
wrerg wees eter reititee*
[Vib] watz wey aafafefa' gt: 1
feo geht gered aray u'*

1 trtiya epamdna-bhavanam ca; Tib. geum pa tead med bagom pa ni.
2 Tib. hgro kun ji Iter bde bas hbyor gyur cig meaning sarod gatih

(ie., the six kinds of living beings in different planes, such as gods,

demons, men, beasts, ghosts and hell-beings) yathdsukhena yxiyatim.

3° What gama means is not known to me, nor does the Tib. version
give any help. Here akhila somduskha is for akhila samdugkhad and
Pramocantu for pramucyafim according to Tib. which reads: adag bsial
ma lus pa los thar gyur cig.

4 Tib, gnod med, lit. ‘not evil, misfortune, or harm’ (apakira,
badha, anortha). The author seems to have used dugfanti in the impera-
tive mood aa in the proceding sentences.

5 Tib. bde ba rayas pahi dios gyur cig, lit. vipalasukthavast
bhaventa. But the author seems to have meant in Sanskrit sakhena
puryanta,

6 Read upeksd for upekea, Tib. blovsfioms pa la the Sanskrit
equivalent of which is upekeayam.

7 bhgesu for bhageyu. The author appeate to say vastuni bhage in
case of apposition, ‘in the division of the main subject (vastu)’. Tib. has
simply vastuni (dios, bi le).

8 *karponem. 9 *daga.

10 ‘pratnah, Tib. iu ba,

11 prathama, Tib. dari po. 12 petra arya”.

13 tupitara 14 pandara’.

15 jaladhisekharam. For panda’ éesarem Tib. has rab dkar to gear
spurte hdrahi chu hdzin rteher which suggests: navapindaradadhi-
ratim ioa jaledharalikhéram 16 *kirti*,
17 patraschite, Tib. eras dant beas pa.
18 than ayanta, Tib. gnas hdir gtege geol. The Skt. transistor
seems to have taken stham for sthim meant for sthanam.

Google
A SANSKRIT TREATISE BY A TIBETAN AUTHOR st

agit ger! sara fergr ?
[Vila] efaree eateg ferqrererere
ita? aeftatarcert ge |
[1] aratetteragen getafered*
[Vib] erengera’ weve fowg u
fade serra
Saeeqa fe” fagatafesr
1Villa) sarereatet sorte are 1
(1) fefe site fe eftecrrere
arafan'* quia afereg'* eet
[VIIb] efter qorran |
artteratferrenfieger st
atefir ga"! a srftq antes t

1 doifige sapha.

2 prathama sthna, Tib. brtan ings.

3° Tib. mdun gyi nam mkher set khri bar zlahi ster; according to it
the Sanskrit would have been ograkise simhasanendipari. Evidently
here drahya ‘baving sat’ is left out.

4 It is wrongly for Tib. dgyie pa, Skt. santurta(h).

5 Evidently lasita ie wrongly for smita ‘smile’, Tib. hdzum, or sita
‘white’, Tib. dker, the Tib. phrase reading hdzum dker can, Skt.
sasitasmita.

6 It is for bhot{arakah, Tib. rje btsun. Cf. the word bharajaka, a
particular class of mendicants,

7 For mama, Tib. bdag i.

8 For punyagra’, Tib. beod nams Zin mchog te.

9 ‘napoaya, Tib. rgyas paki phyir.

10 For thie Tib. would euggest jfeyabhogavat reading ses byahi
Ahyon Itar.

M1 For singular number.

12 Tib. skal beat ra bahi brayan gyur legs béad geun which sug-
gests subhagakarndlankdrabhitasubhayitavdk. No further note is required
here. 13. ietti*,

14 namami. 15. *smrti*, 16 *sampannam.

17 manoramdrghadindnavidhapuspam, Tib. yid hoi mehod yon
ana choge me tog.

18 surabhi (or saurabhi) dhipa, Tb. dri in bdug spos.

Google
32 VIDHUSHEKHARA BHATTACHARYA

(Xa) sega fifieer et qarite?

Were esi gare een
eget te!

sft! gt S& crane?

arf rent! ages [1]

ae" o° arafered

[Xa] cergetar afeterefar u
cant stg

Srews* eget

meatateraterafe |

[Xb] oat eee” oa rere
wena et ateaf un

ot see [XIa]
878 qeafa itera fe
art eae aaere TH |
ware etarefira ma" [Xb]
fifa" erasteosrertarat nt?

1 prajfapti*. 2. ‘nirmitam,
3. For megha Tib. has samudra (rgya mche).

4 For the vocative case.
5 For pijam dadami, Tib. mchod hbul. Tib. here adds te “to you"

(khyed 1a).
6 caturthem. 7 According to Tib. yat (gan tig).
8 kale. 9 “lab ca.

10 In the sense of anddi, Tib. thog med.
11 For “oaimanam (=kayavarmanasim), Tib. lus tiag yid kyi. See
foot-note 4 of p. 54. For vigesa’, Tib. khyod.
13 tri*, Tib, geam. 14 *tapena, 15 “debeyami,
16 kepayakal 17, ‘sampenna,
18 Tib, rlabs chen mdzad pa la which suggests mahormikaryam.
19. Tib. bakul be ‘request (2)'.
20. Tib. yurmakam (khyed mame ky’). 21. nabhahsannibhe.
22 *dayavanta for “dayavat, Tib. brise.
23 Tib. ji War btsham pohi gdul byahi hdzin ma la meaning yatha-
nurtipavineyadharaym.
24 For nirabhoga or anabhoga, Tib. than grab.
25. For cakra’ Tib. chad pa dbab geol which is quite diferent.

Google
A SANSKRIT TREATISE BY A TIBETAN AUTHOR 53

erent serra e
wa sie? ewagaeg [Xila]
aretaftt ay axtere |
frdearrt gate stfter
wera’ ahaa fertenrag
[XU] finite’ fafa | eeifinte avtetrren’ fig sear”
Ut qe rTeTTe fier” [XIlla] fee: afeateaer™® ges fate
armen’? uy eareret" 1
memapres afreraiife’*
[XILb] warererren gq! taregats |
fiert agea"" serial”? tery
anfefet ten ary strafir? u
[XiVa] xf
firttt @1 wg? mit geemea grea i ead? og
wafeeret wart [XIVb] faete fore fant mal gore.
es aretg werafa an am agate [XVa] faa fart
sara a1
1 namana ca. Here ndmana ie perindmand or punyeparinamand.

2 kiyat, Tib. ji afed. 3 Sasa in the senso of éasane, Tib. betan,
4 euhita, Tib, phan which means simply hit

3 édsana*, 6 Tib. cleatly uses cira as adverb (rit du),
7 ‘riya. 8 pratnes ca. 9. prethamam.
10 For gathapah. I triegpam. 12 *dhyatma.

13 Tib. yod par hgrel lo.
14 ayad yathd may be for sa yathd as in Brahmans, or for sydd".

Tib. lit. suggests tad” (de ji lar).

15 Here avaloki is for avalokita.

16 The author wants to express by it amalajianendra.

17 Tib. gare can mkhas pahi which suggests himavet-pata, The Tib.
transliteration is vata for vaf.

18 For eaalankara. 19 For adhyepayami.

20 aysh, Tib. the. 21 For tri (triyam).

22 prathamam.

23 Tib. trancliteration reads “sthe* for ‘ska’. Tib, translation does
not help. 24 *bheperingmand,

25, prathamem.

Google
VIDHUSHEKHARA BHATTACHARYA

stra ge ated a Te

war ef caret aftewt: |

AUR? aaueTaT? at

were’ fafa are aoe fed
facta 1 aflg were eexerfigrerft fees 1
whet often |

[XVia] wea why Gre get

farcfiea’ statecteteratfire: 1

eeu afinnt'qaeateet

wea moat wary F gt
[XVIb] sffty sera ferste: doprrty ot rerefea

eeuqaatiteg* rag at! weft

(XVila] u getter qfeerrentt sf: feet er

Tib. bdg gi, in Skt. mama.

1
2 Here m is unnecessarily inserted.

3 Unnecessarily lengthened. See foot-note 11 of p. 52.

4 This vadmam is undoubtedly for oii-manas (Tib. vsai thugs).
5 “jrapani. 6 ityadi.

7 Evidently the author wanted to say avirahita, Tib. hbral med,

8 mirga, 9 In the sense of toaritam.
10 vagindra{toa]m. 11 For ahem.

Google
An Old-Javanese Inscription from
Pénampihan of the Saka year 1191
By Himansu Bhushan Sarkar, M.A.

This Kawi-inscription is incised on seven copper-plates
which were found in the mountain range of Wilis, now
forming a part of P&nampihan of the Tulung-agung division
in the residency of Kediri. Dr. Brandes wrote a short notice
of this record in the Notulen for 1898, p. 78ff.’ In his
opinion it refers to the complaint of a certain person of
wigaya punpunan sang hyang sarwwadharmma, as he
translates, the subordinate region of St. Sarwwadharmma in
respect of its claim for separation from the people of
bala. This separation had already been sanctioned by H.
M. the late King Vigpuvardhana but the order seems to have
been neglected. It appears from the above description that
Dr. Brandes took Sarwwadharmma and Thanibala to be
place-names. This interpretation is not accepted by Dr.
Poerbatjaraka” who finds here an allusion to a tussle
between what we should now call ‘the power temporal’ and
‘the power spiritual.’ Whatever that may be. the record
under review throws some light on the political history of
contemporary Java and mentions some high functionaries of
state whom we also notice in the Nagarakrtagama and the
Pararaton. Thus King Krtanagara who was consecrated to
rule with his father in 1254 A. D. and ruled alone from 1268
A. D. is described here as ruling over the whole of the island
of Java. Particular mention is made of his suzerainty over
Janggala and Pangjalu. Three principal ministers are
mentioned and among other high functionaries of state the

1 Since then it has been briefly noticed several times, e.g., in Rapp.,
1911, p. 120; Krom, Geschiedenis I, p. 323 f., ete.
2 Vide BKI., 80, pp. 225-227.

Google
%6 HIMANSU BHUSHAN SARKAR

three fore-most are the rakryan (m)apatih, rakryan Dmung
and rakryan kanuruhan. This rakryan (m)apatih or
commander-in-chief is Kbo Aréma and he is probably
identical with Raganatha of the Pararaton. Besides these
and other political data the inscription yields some informa-
tion regarding the organisation of religious establishments.
It is interesting to note that some of the most important
personalities of this inscription are also met with in other
records of contemporary Ja’ The record ends in dog
Sanskrit and this is interspersed with some Old Javanese
words.

The record has been transcribed in Brandes-Krom,
Oudjavaansche Oorkonden, where it bears the 79th number.
Inow edit the text from this transcription and add a transla-
tion of my own with proper diacritical marks.

TEXT.
1b. 1. swasti éri Sakawarpatita, i Sake 1191, Karttikamaea
tithi paficami Su
2. klapakea, wa, ka, wr, wara langkir, uttarapadha
nakgatra, wiéwade
3. wata, ganda yoga, wairijya muhirtta, barupapar-
wweia, kari
4. myechika raéi, irika diwaéar éri Sakalajagatna-

theéa, nrasinghamirttyani

5. nditaparakrama, aéegarajanyacudamaninarpitabha-
ranarawinda, éol tapi

6. tasujanahydayambujawawodhanaswabhawa ori
Kytanagaranamabhigeka, tinadah de rakrya

7. nmahamantri katrini rakryan mantri hino, rakryan
mantri sirikan, rakryan mantri halu, umingeor i
paratanda

2a. 1. rakryan ri pakirakiran makabehan rakryan apatih

makasikasir kbo aréma, rakryan dmung

1 Cf. Bijlage A in BKI., 90, list facing p. 258.

Google
AN OLD-JAVANESE INSCRIPTION 7

mapafiji wipakea, rakryan kanuruhan mapafijyanu-
rida, makadi sang mantri wagmima

paranitijfia, ndgdntaramadhuranathanukulaka-
mapasénggahan sang rama

pati, tan kawuntat sang pamgat i tirwan dang
&cdryya dharmmadewa, sang pamgét ing kanda-
muhi

dang acdryya smaradahana, sang pamgét i
manghuri dang acSryya smaradewa, sang pamgét
ing jamba dang &

caryya éiwanatha, sang pamg®t ing pafjang jiwa
dang acAryyagraja, mpungku dharmmadhyakea
ri kage

wan dang acaryya éiwanatha, mapafijitanutama, i
pingsornyajiia éri maharaja ku

monakén ring kabuyutan ri
lokeéwara, tkeng wigaya punpunan sang hyang-
sarwwadharmma, parhyangan, itye-

wamadi, padamla

kna sang hyang rajapragaeti macihna kytanagara

kapangkwani wigaya punpunan sang

hyang ea

rwwadharmma magthakna pangrakea éri maharaja

ri kaswatantran sang hyang sarwwadharmma,

sambandha mpu

ngku dharmmadhyakea mapaéji tanutama, dinulur

deniwigaya punpunan sang hyang sarwwadharmma
ing bhimi janggala pangjalu, pinake-

sopananyan

kin

sowang
sowang bySthajyan lakwalakwanadohaparé, amiji-
lak&n padadar, pamdihan, paga

rém, mareng juru, buyut, kabayan, aweh patum-
bak tamwi, panghulu bafiu ngini
ngini jjjakén tahun, padacangan, yatikanma-
hak&n trasanya, an tinitih bcik

Google
4a.

HIMANSU BHUSHAN SARKAR,

4. dening thani bala, pinisakitan tan kinawruhinanya,
nimittanyanapulung rahyangi
ndidbhyta sakawat bhiming janggala pangjalu,
marék ri sang ramapati, mwang ri rakryan apatih
makaso

6. pana mpungku dharmmadhyakga mapafiji tanu-
tama, sang rémapati pwa sakatadharmma cintana,
tan hup tan

7. kuminkining karakeaning sarwwadharmma, pi towi
pwan hana turunyanugraha bhatara jaya éri
wignuwa

. |. rddhana irikang sarwwadharmman sapiha sakeng

thanibala, ngintkala sangapaiiji patipati dha

2. rmmadhikérana, nimittanyanenak kakaniécayaniki
pinintonakén sang apajiji tanuta

3. mari sang rémapati, karana sang ramapati dinulur
de rakryan apatih sacchaya mwang sang apaiiji ta

4. nutama, marék ri éri maharaja ring wigaya punpun-
an sang hyang sarwwadharmma, mratisubaddhak-
na panapih bha

5. {ara jayaériwignuwarddhana, ring wigaya punpunan
sang hyang sarwwadharmma sakeng thani bala,
makadona

6. kaswatantran sang hyang sarwwadharmma, mang-
dadyakna sthiratarani palinggih éri maharaja ring
ratna singha

7. sana, pinakekacatraning sayawadwipa. pinako-
ttunggadewa sang samantaprabhu ring bhimi

1. janggala pangjalu, mangkai rasani hatursang
ramapati, winuriwuri deni haturakryanapati

2. h pinirésbpakén deni sang apajiji tanutama, éri
maharaja prabhudewangéa, dharmmami

3. rttyawatara, inahakén bhatéra paramakérapa,
sumapwana kaléngkaning bhdwana, munarjiwakna

4, sarwwadharmma, malwyaknang jagaddhita, ma-
kawyakti gati sang prabhu, an satyadi wihitaéilanu-

Google
2.

4.

AN OLD-JAVANESE INSCRIPTION ”

pitowipwan kakawaéa deni hatur ning pada
wagmimaya sarisaryyanghaturakén heyopade

ya, karana éri maharaja, an wawang manganumoda
ri hatur sang raémapati, dinulur

de rakryan apatih sacchaya mwang sang apaiiji
tanutama, an tikang wigaya punpunan sang hyang
sa

+ rwwadharmma, sapiha sakeng’ thani bala, mar-

yyanitakna byét danghani bala, byét hajya
nagéng admit, lakwalakwan adoh aparé, turuntu-
run sagém sarakut sakeng thani

bala, maryyamijilakna padadar, pamdihan
pagagarém, mareng juru, buyut, kabaya

n, maryyaweha papinda pa (ng) ti, patiklanggas,
panghulubafiu, mareng thani balanya, sowang so
wang, kunéng yan panuku bafiu ikang thani bala

ni sawahnya ikang kalagyan, tanpamijilakna panu-
lis, kunéng ikang tanpgatawij
knanya mareng thanibala, pamija juga, wyaktyan-
yan tan pgata pamaraérayanya ring thani bala
yapwan hana kahar’p sang prabhu rikang wigaya
punpunan sang hyang sarwwadharmma, by&t
hajyanan, lakwa

lakwan, pinta palaku salwiranya kewala katémwari
mpungku dharmmadhyakea juga, tan kahawa

ta sakeng thani bala, kuntng kolahulaha sang
hyang rajaprasasti an pindja denikang wiga

ya punpunan sang hyang sarwwadharmma,
amagutapajing kuning, acuringa rahinawngi, ndan
haywa tekang wiga

ya punpunan sang hyang sarwwadharmmanghiras
waték, angiwwa rare, abafiwabafiwa, apugata
awarawaranga ri

khalanikapajan sang hyang rajaprasasti, muwah
kawnangaknikang wigaya punpunan sang hyang
sarwwadharmma kha

Google
HIMANSU BHUSHAN SARKAR

lang kalagyan, paryyangan, mwang dharmma
jumput, ri kalanyan pamijé ri sang hyang prosada
kabhaktyan

sowang sowang, wnang ajnwahalang, asumping
tufjung siniwak, muwah anugraha éri mahiraja
amaluyakén kaswatantran sang hyang sarwwa-
dharmma, tan kaknana de sang wigaya punpunan
sang hyang sarwwa

dharmma ri pamdang tanghiran, pakudur panghu-
rang, pakris, pasrah anganggwawali, tuwuh watu,
huri

panak, kémbang ipéng tutufijung, tSp$l sang ratu
tunggak ning garyyang, nawagraha, nagapuspa,
wnanga

nusuna sald, aguntinge rubur bale, wnangafijamaha
kawula, amupuha kawulenakwak’

n, amupuhangrahana, ingirup ingirir ing parud
amangana salwirning rajamangéa kadya

ngganing badawang, wdus gunting, karung pulih,
pjahaning ara, asu tugél, ananéma kamale
rumambati

ngumah, anan’ma kémbang  kuntriharSpan,
anan’ma galuguh, adrwyapatéténgehan aja
ngwagading, ikang juru kula, mangkana rasanya-
nugraha éri kytanagara, ri wigaya punpunan sa
rwwa dharmma sakawat bhimi janggala pangjalu,
ing sakalajana ryyatiéayanikadharmma-

kytabhiimi janggala pangjalu, matangyan dadi ta
sang hyang rajaprasasti, malawdlawé krtanaga

ra, mag’haktn kaswatantran sang hyang sarwwa-
dharmma, sampun umunggwing ripta, hinl8pan
tra, pinangkwa

k&n irikang wigayadharmma samudiya, ri sanmata
paratanda rakryan makabehan, manghaturakni.

Google
Tal.

AN OLD-JAVANESE INSCRIPTION 6

kang wigayadharmma, si( ) na, ka, |
ri mahardja pamuspanyan sampun kytanu

graha, kuntng ri sd8nganya hanang ruddhamung-
kilmungkila ri rasa sang hyang rajapradasti,
salwiranya

yadyan caturwarnna, brahmana, keatri;
éudra, athawa, caturaérama, brahmacari,

grhastha, wanaprastha, bhikeuka, makadi sang
prabhu mantry anagata, mwang pinghayakurug
anakthani ya

wat umulahulahi rasa sang hyang raja prasisti, tan
atguh karakgan i kaswatantran sang hyang sarwwa-
dharmma

tasmat kaby&t karmmaknanya, sakula gotranya-
muktya phalaning pataka, mahapataka, atipata

ka, phalanyan mangulahak’n hanyayaprawrtti,
kawulakan de sang hyang trayodaéa sikgi, &

ditya, candra panilonalaéca, dyoh buimirapo-
hydayam yamaéca ahasca ratra

fca tathaécasanmy& dharmmasca janakinarayawr-
ttam, mangkana pwa, yo rajanugraham hatwa,
mohat murkho naro hi sah, paraparakulais sarw-
antu sarwwada, yawat bhi

2 3, ri

» wedya,

prapnuyarcca nerodhama, ya
di syan manusibhitab, kliwah kustaéca bamanah,
an(_ ) omattchyapasmaro, kubjah pa

ngguh kunis tatha, nahan katmahanyan dadi
wwang ri huwusnyan tumbmpuh ring mahi.
Torawa la

stu, astu, astu fom namaéiway fol

1 The first strophe is Indravajr’. Note of Dr. Brandes.

Google
62

1b

HIMANSU BHUSHAN SARKAR

TRANSLATION
Hail! The Saka year past, in the Saka year 1191,

” the month of Karttika, fifth day of the bri

ght half of the month was (day of the six-day
week), Kaliwon (day of the five-day week),
Thursday, Langkir,’ the star is Uttaraadha, the
deity is Viéva,

the yoga is Ganda, the muhdrtta is V:
lord of the orb is Varuna, the Karana is Valava,
the zodiac sign is scorpion*. On this day the
orders of the auspicious one who is overlord of
rulers of all the worlds, an incarnation of Nara-
sinha of

unrivalled chivalry, with (his) _lotus(-feet)*
(adorned) with ornaments given by numerous
kings who are like crestjewels.

whose nature is to smoothe the heart-lotus of
virtuous men suffering from afflictions with the
consecration-name éri Kytanagara,—were received
by the three rakrya

-n mahamantris, (viz.) rakryan mantri hino, rakryan
mantri sirikan, rakryan mantri halu, and commu-
nicated to paratanda

rakryans of different affairs, (viz.) rakryan
(m)apatih named Kbo ar&ma, rakryan dmung
mapafji* Wipakea, rakryan kanuruhan* mapafiji
Anurida, having at their head the Hon. Minister
who is extremely eloquent,

1 Expressing a Mal-Polynesian time,

2 The text has mrcchike, evidently a corruption from orécika. The
transformation of 0 to m is due to Mal-Polynesian influence.

3. Thie text should have cerandrawinda instead of simply arawinda.

4 Lit, ‘surnamed’.

5 In the Majapshit period, rakryan rangga and rakrgen tamenggung
were added to the number of the above three. The mahdmantris
gradually became figure-heads.

Google
AN OLD.JAVANESE INSCRIPTION 63

3. expert in foreign politics (and) intent on making
friendly relations with the king of the other island,
(viz.) Madhura (i.e., Madura), of the name of
Sang Rama

4. -pati, without leaving behind (in consideration)
the Sang pamgat i tirwan * (who is) dang acaryya
Dharmmadeva, sang pamgbt ing kandamuhi

5, (who is) dangacaryya Smaradahana, sang pamgbt i
manghuri (who is) dangacaryya Smaradeva, sang
pamgtt ing jamba (who is) dang

6. -caryya Si sang pamgét ing pafijang jiwa
(who is) dangacaryya Agraja, my lord the superin-
tendent of religion of the Sai

7. -vites (who is) dangacaryya Sivanatha’ surnamed’
Tanutama,‘—for disposing of the orders of éri
maharaja in res

b. 1. -pect of the temple of Lokeévara, including the
subordinate region of
2. St. Sarvvadharmma ; ete.,

are to be sufficiently informed of

3, the sacred royal praéasti having the seal of Ksta-
nagara in respect of the subordinate region of
St. Sa

4, -rvvadharmma. (This) was maintained and taken
care of by Sri maharaja for the freedom of St.
Sarvvadharmma. In this connexion my lord

5. the Superintendent of religion surnamed Tanutama
was led to go to the subordinate religion of St.
Sarvvadharmma

1. Dy. van Naerasen contributes « remarkable paper on these terms in
the BKI., 90, pp. 239-258,

2 ‘These names appear to be accidentally identical.

3 In BKI., 78, p. 444, Dr. Poerbatjaraka takes this MapeBji as «
proper name with Tanutama. I think that he has been rightly criticised
by Dr. van Naerssen in Le., p. 246, 0. 5.

4 It le noteworthy that the name of dharmmadhyakea ring kesogetan,
i.e., the superintendent of religion of the Buddhists does not appear here.

Google
o HIMANSU BHUSHAN SARKAR

6. in the countries of Janggala and Pang-
jalu. On that occasion

each
3. a. 1. of the royal servants hurried far and near, brought
fineries, cloth (and) salt,

2. (and) went to the jaru,? buyut® (and) kabayan”
(who) gave first of all (?) stakes, guides, holy water
above

3. allreligious duties for the year and all cangans
(2), These now bad the consequence of (creating)
the fear of them who were thoroughly governed

4. by Thanibala (lit. local authority) who were
troubled without knowing (the remedy of) it. For
reason of deliberation,

5. the principal officers (?)* belonging to the countries
of Janggala and Pangjalu tendered their homage to
sang Ramapati and to rakryan (m)apatih, through
the instru

6, -mentality of my lord (who is) the superintendent
of religion, surnamed Tanutama. Sang Ramapati
and Sakatadharmma thought, (but) did neither
try® (2) nor

7. care for the protection of Sarvvadharmma, though
there was still the bestowal of the favour of Bhatara
Jaya Sri Vignuva

1 The text has byet which is not kaown to me. The contest
Prompts me to accept the above meaning. It cannot be « corruption of
bayat as this has been correctly pelt in the following line. In a cor-
responding passage in 4b, 2 and in OJO., p. 202, inscr. no. 83, 6a, we
find buat hajyan ageng admit lakwalakwan adoh apare, ind this
undoubtedly supports my translation of the term.

2 Lit. head of corporations.

3 Village-oficials, According to Kern wchata=later buyut; kaba-
van = oillage-messenger.

4 The relevant phrase of the text ls not known to me but my
translation may be warranted by the contest.

5 The text has a doubtful reading here,

Google
- “ma to Sang Rai

AN OLD-JAVANESE INSCRIPTION 65

-rddhana to Sarvvadharmma about its separation
from Thanibala (or, local authority) formerly while
sang apafiji Patipati* was the judge (dhar

. *mmadhikarana). For satisfying and confirming,

these (officers) were presented by the worthy
(one) surnamed Tanuta

apati. The reason why Sang
Ramapati was accompanied by rakryan (m)apatih
asa shadow’ and by the worthy (one) surnamed
Ta

-nutama was to pay respects to Sri maharaja about
the subordinate region of St. Sarvvadharmma (and)
to get confirmed the separation

of the subordinate region of St. Sarvvadharmma
from Thanibala (or, local authority) made by
Bhat&ra Jaya Sri Vignuvardhana, the object being
the

freedom of St. Sarvvadharmma. May this have
the consequence of making firmer the sitting-place
of Sri maharaja on the jewelled throne,

making his one umbrella protect the whole of
the island of Java, (as) he has been made overlord
of the worthy sdmantaprabhus (i. e., subordinate
kings) of the countries of

Janggala and Pangjalu. Such were the contents
of the memorial (lit. proposal) of Sang Ramapati
which was followed by the memorial of rakryan
(m)apatih®

(both of which) were communicated by the worthy
one surnamed Tanutama. Sri maharaja is a part
of divinity and an incar

1 Vide N. J. Krom, Geschiedenis, pp. 317, 323.
2 Or. Soecchaya?
3 Here is a linguistic peculiarity. The text has haturakryen* which

of his own accord.

{s clearly hetar-+-rakryan. Of these two 1's one has been dropped accord-
ing to later custom.

Google
6 HIMANSU BHUSHAN SARKAR

3. -nation of the image of Dharmma, i.e., virtue,
and he was predestined by the Bhatara, (lit. deity),
the ultimate cause (of all things), to wipe out the
disgraceful beings of the world. All the dying
religious systems

4, were re-vitalised and the welfare of the world
progressed apace,—all bearing testimony to the
conduct of the worthy king, firstly in respect of
truth and then of commendable precepts and
other things.

5. These were also described’ by the memorial of
the one like the eloquent one (ji. e., Sang Rama-
pati); the substance of the presented memorial
indicated what was to be left out and what was to
be retained (by the king).

6, For these reasons, Sri mahéraja immediately
approved of the memorial of Sang Ramapati who
was followed by

7. rakryan (m)apatih asa shadow and by the one
surnamed Tanutama. He accordingly separated
the subordinate region of

b. 1. St. Sarvvadharmma from Thanibala (or, local
authority) and this ceased to follow the by&t
danghan’ of Thanibala (or, local authority). The
royal servants,

2, great and small, travelled far and near,’ and
returned (to the temple) all hold and trust (pre-
viously) resting with Thanibala

3. (or, local authority). (Further) they ceased to bring

1 The text has kawata=ka+wasa, The lit. meaning is overthrown,
subjugated, etc., but these do not appear to be applicable here. I there-
fore supply the above meaning from context,

2 Apparently a clase of officers.

3 The writer's spelling calls for attention, for he writes the same
word in different ways. Cf. apare of 30. 1. with epard in 46.2.
He was cither careless or during his time ¢=3. Influence of oral speech
is also possible.

Google
AN OLD-JAVANESE INSCRIPTION 0

fineries, clothes and salt, and (stopped) going to
juru, buyut

4, and kabayan (who) held back giving sums for the
panel of servants,—', holy water, and (ceased)? to
go to any officer of Thanibala (or, local authority).

5. Still, when the buying-price for (holy) water goes
to the side of Thanibala (or. local authority), this
must be diverted to buy off in agreement with
(temple-authorities)

6. sawah-field for the temple. The order-sheet may
not be produced and the arrears realised may

7. go to Thanibala (or, local authority) for religious
services only, indicating (thereby) that this serves
to maintain friendly relations with (lit. this does not
exclude getting help from) Thanibala (or, local
authority).

5a, 1. And such are the wishes of the worthy king about

the subordinate region of St. Sarvvadharmma. The
royal servants travelled (far and

2. near) and requested all kinds of men to come only
to interview my lord (who is) the sole superinten-
dent of religions (dharmmadhyakga), (but) not any
officer®

3. from Thanibala. What now concerns the
arrangement of the sacred rajapraéasti about the
worship to be done by the subordinate

4. region of St. Sarvvadharmma, about the opening
of yellow umbrella and about the use of foot-bells,
day and night (by its inmates). But let not the
subordinate region

5. of St. Sarvvadharmma ever stand under the

1 The word patiklanggas is not known to mo.

2 This comes from the previous construction.

3 Apparently because all powers have now slipped off their hands,
as has been suggested in 4b. 2,

Google
x

hens

7

HIMANSU BHUSHAN SARKAR

authority of women, lads (and) abafiwabafiwa'

nd) add

ll) in scant courtesy to the
sacred rajapragasti. Further, the subordinate
region of St. Sarvvadharmma shall possess the

7. khalang*, cloister, temple and dharmma jumout*
at the time of worship in the holy prasdda kabhak-
tyan.*

1, Each one (in these places) can use pearl-powder,
halang-weapon, split-up lilies as ear-rings. As the
favour of Sri maharaja

2. brings back the freedom of St. Sarvvadharmma,
the subordinate region of St. Sarvvadharmma
may not be visited by

3. pamdang* tanghiran,* pakudur,* panghurang,”
pakris,* pasrah.* (Each one in these places) can
use twigs, tuwuh-stone, huri

4. -panak', ipéng-flowers, tuftjung-flowers, thpél,*
the holy ratu tunggak ning garyyang,* nawagraha,"
nagapuspa (i e., Serpent-flower). (Each one)

5. can use a sitting bench, shave in the high hall, dis-
honour slaves, beat slaves out of sportiveness,

6. kill (them) for theft, blow'’—with fans, eat all
kinds of rich dish (réjamangéa) such

Apparently a class of persons,

Probably @ spelling-mistake for Kalang, i.e. fighting-park for
It has been mentioned in many inscriptions.

A kind of religious foundation,

Main temple?

A class of persons.

Official title of the priest.

In VG., VIL, p. 47, Ker translates this word by frlar-

Dr. Stutterheim however raises plausible objections to this. Vide TBG.,
65, p. 243, f.n. 68. He thinks that the term corresponds to Tuhan or chief,
older, ete.

8
9
10

A kind of flowers?
Name of a floral substance.
‘The meaning of ingirir is not known to me.

Google
AN OLD.JAVANESE INSCRIPTION 0

7. as that of tortoise, wdus gunting’, wild boar
led (even) by women (?)?, castrated dog.
(Each one) can plant lotuses to creep along
6a. 1. the premises, plant kunbr-flowers in the neighbour-
hood, plant galuguh (-creepers?) and station in the

middle

little trees of yellow cocoanuts (viz.) ajangu and

the juru kula. Such are the contents of the favour

of Sri Kptanagara to the subordinate region of

3. Sarvvadharmma and principal officers of the

countries of Janggala and Pangjalu. Cognisance

must be taken of this that all men were in exhu-
berance of loyalty (lit, virtue) to

‘Sri maharaja who held one umbrella over the whole

of Javadvipa and brought back the unification

5. of the countries of Janggala and Pangijelu. In
connexion with this, the sacred rdjapragasti also
stated (?) that Krtanaga

6. -ra confirmed the freedom of St. Sarvvadharmma.
Hence forward it put into writing that yellow
garments would be beautified and given (?)

7. to the temple-region with the consent of the
paratanda rakryan* of different affairs. The

+ temple-region also offered—‘, ka 1, su 3 to Sri
mahiaraja to show respects for the favour bestowed
henceforward.

2. And, in the meanwhile, if there be anyone who
objects to and violates substance of the sacred
rajaprasasti, all classes of men,

3. whether the four varnas (viz.) Brahmana, Keatriya,
Vaiéya or Sidra‘, or those belonging to the four
Gsramas (viz.) Brahmacari,

Cad

Ba

-

1 A kind of goat.
2 Pjahaning rara may together stand for the name of a kind of animals.
3. Spelt as paratenda rakryen in 1b. 7,

4 Mutilated,

5 They are mentioned for the first time in the inser. of Petampikan,

Google
70 HIMANSU BHUSHAN SARKAR

4. Grhastha, Vanaprastha, Bhikguka, to begin with the
future kings, ministers, pinghay', akurug’, anak-
thani?, 20 long

5. as they violate the substance of the sacred raja-
pragasti and fail to maintain and protect the
freedom of St. Sarvvadharmma,

6. as the result of this deed, may all their families
and relations suffer the consequences of sins,
great sins (mahapataka) and excessive sins (ati-
pataka),

7, bearing fruits that tend towards creating harm.
They may be enslaved by thirteen deities’. The
witne

7a. |. -sses are the Sun, the Moon, the wind‘, the fire, the
ether, the earth, water, heart, Yama, day, night,

2. as also time’, laws, the group of Janaki and Naraya-
(pa). Now then, if any one violates the royal favour

3. out of infatuation, he is a fool ; he always goes
to the Raurava-hell with all his families and
reli 3. As long as beings

4. are created, if he is reborn during this period, this
mean man shall receive the figure of a tiny beast; if

5. he is born as a human being, he shall be a eunuch,
leper, dwarf . . with dropsy, hunch-back,

6. disabled body and finger-disease. Thereafter he
may be incarnated in such a man as will at last be
thrown into the Maharaurave-hell. Let

7. it be sv, be it 90, be it so. Om! Salutation
to Siva ||Oll

dated 896 A.D. (JO., XXXI). The candalas and Mlecchas are also men-
tioned herein. The copper-plates of Keboan-pasar, dated 873 A.D.
OJO., IX), also refer to the four varnas, but these plates are regarded as
unauthentic by some.

1A clase of officers. 2 Lit. natives.

3 Im the Old-Javanese text Amoraméla, we read: “Amards
tridatah prokiah.”” Vide my Indian influences, etc., p. 112.

4 The use of the prefix pa before the compound is unnecessary.

5 Saumpa=Samaya? This may be due to copyist's carelessness.

Google
Identification of “Sri Visnuvarman"
of the Perak Seal’
By Dr. Bahadur Chand Chhabra.

One of the most interesting objects that have been
brought to light during the excavations carried out, not very
long ago, by Mr. Ivor H. N. Evans at the site of Tanjong
Rawa Kuala Selinsing, Perak, was a small engraved piece
of semi-precious stone—a signet, (the ring to which it must
originally have been attached has not yet been found). It
now ranks among those important antiquities that bear an
eloquent testimony to the Hindu culture prevailing in the
Malay Peninsula during the early centuries of the Christian
era. It has been described by its discoverer as follows:
“Tt is a small seal of red comelian of good colour and
somewhat translucent, chamfered at the edges on the face
and there engraved with an inscription running the length
of the seal in the middle. The dimensions of the piece are
1-4 cme. x1 cm. x4 cm. (cit.), The back is flat.” The
original seal is now preserved in the Perak Museum, and
has since been studied from its imprints by several scholars.
While divergent opinions have been offered regarding ite
script, contents and age, no possible identification of its
owner is yet forthcoming.

‘The present writer has had occasion to deal, at some
length, with this piece of antiquity in his thesis entitled
Expansion of Indo-Aryan Culture during Pallava Rule;? but
the recent note by Mr. Roland Braddell has prompted him
to comment upon the same jn greater detail.

1 Oudh. Versi. 1930, p. 36; 1. H, N, Evans, JFMSM., Vol. XV, pt.
3. 1952, pp. 84, 86, 88, 89.90, 110-11, pl. xxxviti, fige.1, 2; JRASMB., Vol.
XI, pt. Il, 1933yp. 209; R. O. Winstedt and R. J. Wilkinson, A History of
Perak—JRASMB., Vol. XIl, pt. 1, 1934, p. 4; Roland Braddell, JRASMB.,
Vol. XII, pt. I, 1934, pp. 173-4.

2 This is being published under the auspices of the Asiatic Society
of Bengal, Calcutta, and may appear in the next issue (January, 1935) of
tho Society's Journal. [It has since been published—Ed.]

Google
2 BAHADUR CHAND CHHABRA

As Mr. Evans states, the legend on the seal was formerly
read by some Dutch authorities as éri vigquvarmman, and
later by Dr. C, O. Blagden and Dr. L. D. Barnett as éri
vignuvarmmasya. Prof. K. A. Nilakanta of the Madras
University however, writing to Mr. Roland Braddell, observes :
“The writing on the seal may be read either éri vignu-
varmmasya or éri vignuéarmmasya, the termination being
wrong in either case, and the usual form being varmanah or
Sarmanah.” 1 myself had already surmised that the reading
was perhape éri vignudharmmasya, in which case no error
of grammar would present itself. I was indeed led to this
assumption by a close resemblance which one often finds
between the formations of the letters va and dha in a script
like the present one. I had, however, to give up that view;
for an examination of the three impressions of the seal,
kindly supplied to me by the Keeper of the Perak Museum
and by the Director of the Archeeological Survey of Nether-
lands East Indies, convinced me that the letter under
discussion was not likely to be read as dha, because it is
exactly similar to that in the second syllable—vi. The
legend decidedly reads: Sri vignuvarmmasya. It thus con-
tains two fallacies : Sri for éi and varmmasya for varmmanah.
The former may be ascribed to the engraver who has put
a simple curve that usually marks a medial i (short),
whereas he ought to have cut a spiral to indicate the i
(long). The second mistake is rather difficult to explain.
The form varmmasya may intentionally have been used in
order to keep the possessive sense free from all ambi;
the correct form varmanah being liable to be confused either
with the accusative plural or with the ablative singular. And
indeed jt seems to have been a common practice that seal-
legends contained the owner's name in the genitive, as may
be seen on many of the ‘sealings’ found at Basarh, the
ancient Vaigali, some specimens of which contain even such
forms as kulikaharisya and prakdéanandisya'. It is noticed
in some of the Prakrit languages that sya has become a

1 Ann, Rep. Arch. Suro. Ind. 1903-04, pp. 115, 117, Nos. 77, 98.

Google
IDENTIFICATION OF "SRI VISNUVARMAN” B

generalized termination of the possessive case, but not in
Sanskrit. Some lexicons, on the other hand, also give a
word varma to be used only at the end of a compound,
an example of which is to be found in the Mahabharata IX,
2683 (jvalitalatadharinyd citrabharanavarmaya). Moreover,
such errors are not unknown in epigraphy. Putro ‘sua
varmmo vikhydtah occurs, for instance, in one of Miila-
varman’s inscriptions from Borneo.’ In India, too, one comes
across such a usage as mahdréja-Sarovavarmmena in the
Nirmand copper-plate inscription of Samudrasena’. In the
present instance, even if we regard varmmasya as a sheer
mistake, the sense is clear.

The only point on which all the scholars seem to agree
is that the type of script represented on the seal is what
may rightly be termed as the Pallava-Grantha. Still there
‘exists an uncertainty as to which stage in the development
of the Pallava-Grantha is represented here. In the case of
undated records, paleeography no doubt helps a good
deal in guessing at their approximate date. The peculiar
forms of the characters of the seal also offer such a study.
Each character, as may be seen, contains a small dash on
the top: they may thus be regarded as belonging to what
is known as the ‘box-headed’ type. They possess an
elegance of carving, which shows that they have passed the
very primitive stage. Only the curve of medial short i
points to the archaic type. This is perhaps what led Dr. P.
V. van Stein Callenfels to date the seal about A.D. 400.
Later, however, he revised his view and dated it about
A.D. 600. Mr. Evans himself seems to favour this last date.
Dr. Blagden says: “I have known a ‘Pegu’ (Burma)
inscription, bearing date 1112-3 A.D., which had forms that
were archaic and obeolescent in India morc than seven
centuries earlier, Barnett [Dr. L. D. Barnett of the British
Museum] says, ‘the seal is older than the %h century,

1) Bijdragen, deel 74, 1918, facing p. 232, Inser. A, 1. 3.
2 Fleet, Gupta Inscriptions, p. 289.

10

Google
” BAHADUR CHAND CHHABRA

probably.” He further remarks: “A.D. 400 is perhaps a
bit early, but | am not prepared to say that it is impossible.
Judging from Bihler’s Plates in Indian Paleography,
there was not much change between 400 and about
750 A.D."" Prof. Nilakanta holds a similar view; for he
states: “the writing on the seal is much later than 400 A.D.""?
The consensus of opinion thus goes in favour of A.D. 600
and even later. It is rather risky to draw any such con-
clusion from a comparison of the few characters of the seal.
Apparently they compare equally well with those of Mila-
varman’s inscriptions (c. A.D. 400) from Borneo and those
of Bhadravarman's inscriptions (c. A.D. 400) from Campa
‘on one hand, and with those of Mahendravarman I's inscrip-
tions (c. A.D. 600-630) from South India on the other. What
lends the inscription on the seal an archaic air, js the
fashion of expressing the medial i by a superscribed curve,
which is left open, It may, however, be remembered that
this feature is not restricted only to ancient inscriptions. In
later records, it is true, this curve has become so closed as
to assume the appearance of a superscribed circle, still the
former fashion is met with in certain documents of as late
a date as A.D. 700. Regarding this point, | need simply
refer to the observations made by Prof, Vogel in connexion
with Malavarman’s inscriptions.”

As regard the interpretation of the legend, it was first
rendered by the same Dutch authorities as “‘the most
excellent armour of Vignu."’ Dr. P. V. van Stein Callenfets
at the same time observed that “the ‘éri’ certainly points
to a king or a prince.” Mr. Evans, though aware that this
name was borne by several Pallava kings, remarks: “I had
wondered, too, whether it might not be the ring of some
commoner bearing an inscription with a talismanic signific-

ance."* Prof. Nilakanta says: ‘“The proper place for the

4) JFMSM., Vol. XV, pt. 3, pp. 89-90.
2 JRASMB., Vol. Xil, pt. Il, p. 173.

3. Bijdragen. deel 74, pp. 228-9.

4. JFMSM., Vol. XV, pt. 3, p. II.

Google
IDENTIFICATION OF “'SRI VISNUVARMAN™ B

seal, wherever it may be, does not eeem to belong to
Pallava history.” The name érivignuvarman occurs in a
grant of the Kadamba king Ravivarman.’ The passage
in question reads: Srivignuvarmmaprabhrtin narendran
rihatya jitod prthivim sama [stam]. Since this is a
statement of a victor with reference to the foes he has
vanquished, one doubts whether the éri here is an honorific
or whether it constitutes a part of the name itself. This
name has, however, not properly been identified. Dr. Fleet
thought that it was possibly identical with Vignugopa or
Vignugopavarman who was one of the Pallava kings of
c. A.D, 340.2 Mr. R. Gopalan, on the other hand, thinks
that this Vignuvarman was presumably a collateral cousin
and descendant of the Kadamba king Krsnavarman
(c. A.D. 500)? In any case, the present legend certainly
means that the seal belonged to an individual named Sri
Vignuvarman. One of the Basarh sealings bears the legend :
Sri ghatotkacaguptasya. The individual featuring here has
been identified with the Gupta king Ghatotkaca. 4n like
manner the Sri and the varman in the present seal possibly
refer to a royal personage. In my former paper referred to
above I had identified this Sri vignuvarman with the
Sailendra king Vignu that figures on one face of the Ligor
inscription,‘ which is not dated, but is, in any case, anterior
to A.D. 775. While there seems to be little objection to such
a supposition, the topographical position of the two sites,
Perak and Ligor, rather strengthens the same. It is thus
with a firmer conviction that I offer the same identification
again.

1 Ind, Ant., Vol. VI, 1877, pp. 29, 30.

2 Ind, Ant., Vol. V, p. 50; Vol. VI, p. 30.

3 Gopalan, History of the Pallavas of Kanchi, 1928, p. 73.

4 BEFEO., Vol. XVIII, no. 6, pp. 1-36, Appendix no. 1, A & B, with
two plates; Journal of the Greater India Society, Vol. 1, No. 1, January
1934, p 12,

Google
The Celebes Bronze Buddha
By Dr. Bahadur Chand Chhabra,

Interest has recently been roused by the discovery of a
large but broken standing bronze Buddha on the west coast
of Celebes. It is said that the piece was found, more than
twelve years ago, at the foot of a hillock on the bank of
the Karam river near Sikendeng, but that it came to the
notice of the authorities of Netherlands India only in 1933
when it was transported to the Batavia Museum.. The find
has given rise to systematic explorations in that part of the
island; for it is hoped that more Indo-Aryan vestiges may
come to light in Celebes, too, where nothing of the sort has
so far been found. This circumstance invests the present
specimen with special interest. Moreover it claims to be
the largest bronze discovered so far both in Further India
and in Indian Archipelago, though unfortunately it has not
reached us entire. Its legs and hands are missing, and in
this condition it measures 75 cm. in height. Its right
shoulder is uncovered and the rhythmical folds of the garb
are well-marked. As such it distinguiehes iteelf from the
Buddha bronzes of Java and Sumatra and points to a higher
antiquity. It resembles the Buddha bronzes of Ceylon as
well as of Amaravati in South India. Dr. Bosch has made
an exhaustive study (Het bronzen Buddha-beeld van Celebes’
Westkust in Tijdschrift Bet. Gen. LXXIII, 1933, pp. 495-513
with two plates) of the present piece and is of opinion that
it was probably exported from Amaravati.

Google
NOTICES OF BOOKS

Cronaca della Missione Soientifica Tucci ne! Tibet
Occidentale (1833) By G. Tucci and E. Ghersi, Royal
Academy of Italy, Roma, 1934, pp. 395+272 illus!
+Index+a Map.

The Royal Acadamy of Italy has recently published the
“Chronicle of Tucci’s Scientific Expedition to Western Tibet
during the summer of 1933" by G. Tucci and E. Ghersi.

The name of Tucci is well-known among Indian scholars
and this new contribution of his to a more positive and
scientific knowledge of Tibet both in ite religious and
archaeological aspects cannot but be widely appreciated.

As the title of the book indicates, this is the narrative
of his journey throughout Western Tibet, the Guje region,
where Rin c’en bzan po chiefly performed his apostolic
mission of introducing the Buddhist doctrines among his yet
primitive brethren.

The vividuess of the book pleasantly carries the reader
along through the vicissitudes and adventures encountered
by the authors. Dr. Ghersi accompanied Prof. Tucci both as
a physician and as a photographic expert. Indeed the
beauty of the illustrations which profusely enrich the book
throughout, amply testifies to hie merits.

For a closer and more scholarly study of all the docu-
ments and materials collected by Tucci during his expedi-
tion, the reader is referred to the third volume of the “‘Indo-
Tibetica” which is to be published shortly by the Royal
Academy of Italy. We must limit ourselves to a short
summary of the book under notice.

On the 14th June 1933 the party reaches Sultanpur where
several days are spent to get together the caravan and the
victuals. On the 2Ist June with 24 horses and 17 men they
are able to leave Sultanpur, aiming to reach the river Spiti
through the Robtang-la and Chandra valley. They reach the

ions

Google
78 NOTICES OF BOOKS

bridge of Kelat in the afternoon and Manali on the following
day. After the day's climbing they are on the Rothang
mountain-pass which is some 12,000 feet high and then they
redescend into the Chandra valley and point towards Losar
which they reach on the 30th June. In one of the libraries of
a private house Tucci finds an old xylograph of the epos of
Kesar of gLin, the hero of the Tibetan epic. Through
Kioto, in the old valley of the Spiti, they arrive at Kibar; in
‘a private temple they discover some very interesting fres-
oes. From there, they proceed to Ki, to visit its famous
monastery. They are kindly received by the monks there,
the oldest of whom still remember the visit paid to them
by Francke in 1909. They go then to the monastery of Kaze
and reach Lithang on the 12th July. At Lhalung, in the
valley of the Lingti, they see the temple, already visited by
Shuttleworth, who, however failed properly to identify the
sacred images there. There is a beautiful wooden image of
Buddha of perfect Indian workmanship and Tucci succeeds
in securing it. In Drangkhar, the capital of the Spiti, they
visit the various temples and take interesting photos of the
frescoes. Through Po they reach Tabo, where there ie
the famous monastery founded by Rin c’en bzan po. The
temple of Tabo is beautiful both for statues and frescoes
and the visitors have ample opportunity for collecting manus-
cripts and carrying on researches there. They also explore
all the Ciorten, taking note of the inscriptions. Through
Chang and Nako, under the sky-high and snowy peaks of
the Sutlej, they go on wending their way towards Tashigang,
an old priest receiving them, while they wait for the Skushok,
re-incarnated from whom really emanates a spiritual
superiority. Together with the Skushok, they visit the temple
of Tashigang, where a ruchien (an ornament made with
human bones and usually used for the ceremony called ciod)
is zealously kept: indeed, this ruchien is of a superior artistic
value for its inimitable carvings: and Tucci, who has already
collected an ample literature on them, is only satisfied when
he induces the Skushok to part with it. They pase Namgia,
Shipki, Serkung, Tiak, Radnis, the birth-place of Rin

Google
NOTICES OF BOOKS »

c’en bzan po. The temple of Rin c’en bzan po at Tiak
still preserves the vestiges of its old splendour. Leaving the
valley of the Sutlej, they point to Miang, where they
inspect the ruins of the castle and all the temples. At
Ni they photograph the fine frescoes of its temples. After
an inspection at Gumphug they reach Dongbera on the [5th
August. Through Karum-la they arrive at Luk, where the
monastery and the frescoes of the temple capture the in-
terest of the travellers. After passing Sumur Gompa and Jang-
tang they reach the monastery of Rabgyeling, where they
can study the three temples carefully. In Kyinipuk they find
thousands of old ts’a ts’a and some interesting MSS. At
Shangtze, the summer residence of the Governor of Tsa-
Parang, they are received by the Governor himself moet
cordially. The temple of Shangtze is beautifully decorated
with frescoes. They pass Laoche-la and through the: valley
of the Gartang, they reach Gartok. Here Tucci meets a
very famous lama from Kham of the rDsoge c’en sect, who
was the beloved disciple of the famous Paldén devaghiazd.
Naturally they become engaged in mystic speculations and
are charmed with one another. After the mountain-pass of
Bogola and through Dongbo and Drinsa, they reach Toling
on the 17th September. Here they visit the monastery of
Giortén (in one of which they are told that some relics of
Rin c’en bzan po are preserved). But in the high part of
Toling they specially find some inestimable MSS, They are
allowed to take photographs of the great temple built in the
Mandala shape and admire all the artistic and spiritual
treasures that are collected there. The frescoes of the White
Temple and of the sixteen Arhats’ temples still show their
artistic perfection, but the state of decay in which they are
kept cannot but sadden the heart of an enthusiast like Tucci.
In Tsaparang again the ancient frescoes of its temples and
the castle seem a heap of ruins, although in their interior
some valuable remains can still be found. After passing
through Puling and Rildigang they come to Ri, the temple
of which could once be compared to those of Toling and
Teaparang. On the 30th September they are in Sarang and

Google
8 NOTICES OF BOOKS

near Tinzam they cross the Sutlej river for their return
journey on the old route, having thus visited all the regions
of the Guge or Western Tibet. Through Shipki, Dabling,
Poo they reach Kanam, where, in one of its modest gompas
lived and studied for a long time Csoma de Kéris to whose
immortal memory Tucci has lovingly dedicated his present
work. In China and Sungra, in the temples of Vienu and
Mahadeva, the influence of the Indian art is again the more
evident though in a style which finds ite amplest develop-
ment in Nepal.

‘On the 2nd November the travellers reach Simla after
‘a journey accomplished entirely on foot, through difficulties
and privations, solely guided by their infmite longing to
detect (and if possible to preserve to the world) some of
the greatest monuments of Buddhist thought which other-
wise would have been lost for ever.

C. Ruaupo.

Archaeology in Gwalior by M. B. Garde, B. A., Superin-
tendent of Archaeology, Gwalior State ; 2nd ed. 1934.
pp. 151 +34 plates+a map.

A Guide to the Archaeol
Department of Archaeology, Gwali

These are the publications of the Archaeological Depart-
ment of the Gwalior State which was created in 1913 by the
late lamented Maharaja Sir Madhav Rao of Gwalior. They
are an eloquent testimony not only to the enlightened in-
terest of the Gwalior State in Archaeological work, but also
to the unbounded energy and enthusiasm of the worthy
Archaeological Superintendent Mr. M. B. Garde.

‘The first-named work consists of two parts. In Part I
the author after giving a preliminary account of previous
archaeological explorations in the State and the origin of the
State Archaeological Service, passes in review the various
activities of the Department under appropriate headings.

Museum at Gwalior,
+ pp. 52+ 18 plates

Google
NOTICES OF BOOKS 81

We learn (p. 5) that the Department during the first six
years of ite existence was occupied, very properly, with the
preparation of a complete and up-to-date list of monuments,
their number reaching the high figure of 3,000 (p. 33). This
ie followed by a brief but admirable survey of the ancient
city-sites (such as Ujjayini, j. Padmavati and Daéapura)
and of the monuments classified as Buddhist, Brahmanical,
Jaina and Muhammadan and including works of civil as well
as military architecture. Of equal interest is the list of the
Prakrit and Sanskrit inscriptions ranging from 2nd century
B.C. to 15th century A.C. as well as that of Arabian and
Persian inscriptions from the 14th to the 18h century.

The record of work done in the branch of numismatics
is creditable as jt comprises the examination of over 5,000
coins of all periods during the last five years. Coming to
another branch, the author mournfully confesses that no
excavation on a large scale has yet been attempted or is even
contemplated in the near future. But he mentions the
results of slight excavations that have been undertaken on
a number of the most promising sites (such as Vidiéa, Sondni
and Pawaya). The important work of conservation which
was not commenced till 1920-21 has at last been undertaken
in right earnest and its results are recorded in a long list of
Preserved monuments. Finally a word of praise is due for
the fine collection of antiquities that are deposited in the
State Museum at Gwalior.

Part II has the title of “A brief directory of important
places of archaeological interest in the Gwalior State.” It
fully justifies its title. by the thoroughness with which every
antiquarian site is dealt with in a brief compass.

We have noticed a few minor inaccuracies (Cf. ‘Hindu’
for ‘Brahmanical'—p. 11; ‘Pali’ for ‘Prakrit’—p. 67, etc.).
The value of the work has been enhanced by the inclusion
of no less than 34 plates and an archeological map of the
Gwalior State at the end.

The Guide to the Gwalior Archaeological Museum is an
equally useful publication, although an exhaustive catalogue
of antiquities would have been more welcome. After

u

Google
82 NOTICES OF BOOKS

a brief prefatory account it gives us a bird's-eye
view of the contents of the twenty-six rooms in which the
collection is housed, along with such explanations as are
needed for the general reader. It is interesting to observe
that the jinscription-room contains thirty-eight inscribed
stones and eleven jmpressions of which thoee of Agoka’s
Saranath Pillar Edict and Heliodorus’ inscription are parti-
cularly noticed. In the other rooms the antiquities are
arranged on somewhat divergent principles. Sometimes
antiquities of the same clase (like pillar-capitals, Yakgas and
demi-gods, mother and child, Siva and Parvati) are gathered
together. At other times antiquities belonging to the same
site (like Vidiéa, Padmavati and Udayagiri), not to speak of
the world-famed Bagh frescoes, are so gathered, While the
latter grouping may justly be commended, a chronological
arrangement of the former group would certainly have been
preferable,

U.N. GHosHAL.

Google
MISCELLANY

An interesting exhibition of Indian Architecture and
allied arts and crafts was held at the Senate House of the
Calcutta University from the 8th to the I5th February, 1935.
The Exhibition, which was the first of its kind in Calcutta,
was opened with an jnspiring address by Mr. Syama Prasad
Mookerjee, Vice-Chancellor of the Calcutta University.
The Greater India section was represented by a large
number of drawings, photographs and antiquities lent by
scholars and learned institutions both in and outside Bengal.
Dr. Andreas Nell of Colombo sent a few photographs
of ancient Ceylonese monuments, a few others representing
Ceylonese rural crafts and two representing a modern build-
ing in Colombo reproducing Ancient Indian architectural
features. Dr. Suniti Kumar Chatterji exhibited a painted
scroll from Balj representing the temptation of Arjuna as
described in the Mahabharata story. The Fine Arts Seminar
of the Calcutta University exhibited large-sized photographs
and drawings of Borobudur as well as of Ankor Thom,
Ankor Vat and the Bayon. A number of Simhalese,
Nepalese, Chinese, Japanese and Tibetan antiquities was
displayed by the Mahabodhi Society of Calcutta, while
Mesers. Abdul Ali and Srish Chandra Chatterji exhibited
specimens of Burmese lacquer-work and photographs of
Siamese temples.
. 8 © © © 8 © «
The Greater India Society has pleasure in announcing
that Mr. Himansu Bhusan Sarkar of the Dacca University is
actively engaged in preparing a complete and up-to-date
edition of Old-Javanese and Sanskrit Inscriptions of Java
with text, translation and notes. The work, which bears
the title Corpus Inecriptionum Javanarum, is expected to

be ready for the Press by the middle of this year.

. . . . . . oe
The Greater India Society has profited, as in former
years, by the generous donation of a sum of Rs. 500/- only

Google
cy MISCELLANY

made this year by the National Council of Education,
Bengal, for meeting its publication expenses. The Society
conveys its sincere thanks to Sir P. C. Ray, President and
Mr. Hirendra Nath Datta, Vice-President, of the Council for
their active assistance in this matter.
a 8 © © © © «© «

Professor Giuseppe Tucci, Vice-President of the Royal
Italian Institute of the Middle and the Far East, has offered
for publication by the Greater India Society a work called
“Travels of Tibetan Pilgrims to the Swat Valley”. The
Society has most gladly accepted the offer and it hopes to

take up the publication at an early date.
o © © @ © © © 6

Thanks to the active support and keen interest of
Mr. Syama Prasad Mookerjee, Vice-Chancellor of the
Calcutta University, the Greater India Society is at last likely
to have a siége-social in one of the rooms of the Asutosh
Buildings of the Calcutta University. This will give the
Society the opportunity of housing its collection of reference-
books, reports, periodicals, etc., and making the same
accessible to all earnest students of the subject.

8 © © © 8 ee

The Greater India Society gratefully acknowledges the
patronage extended to its Journal last year by the Education
Departments of Bengal, Assam and Bihar & Orissa by way
of popularising it among the colleges within their respective
juriedictions.

Thanks of the Society are also due to the Director-
General of the Archaeological Survey of India, and the
different archaeological circles as well as the Government
Epigraphist for India for the interest they have shown by
subscribing to copies of the Society's Journal.

8 © © © © 8 «6

The enlightened governments of Their Highnesses the
Maharaja Gaekwad of Baroda, the Maharaja of Travancore,
the Maharaja of Mysore, the Maharaja Scindia of Gwalior as
well as the Maharaja Holkar of Indore have likewise deserved
the gratitude of the Greater India Society by making its

Google
MISCELLANY 85

Journal available to the colleges, public libraries and
Archaeological Departments in their respective States.
Cr nr er er ner nar en
During the last half-year the Greater India Society has
had the opportunity of coming into close contact with a num-
ber of leamed Societies both in and outside India. Among
these special mention may be made of the Madras Govern-
ment Museum (Madras), the Varendra Research Society
(Rajshahi), the Mythic Society (Bangalore), the Gesselschaft
fiir Ostasiatische Kunst, (Berlin), I'Ecole  Francaiee
d’Extréme Orient (Hanoi), Koninklijk Bataviaasch Genoot-
schap van Kunsten en Wetenschappen, (Batavia), the
Chinese Acadamy of Buddhist Learning, (Nanking), the
Java Institute (Jogjakarta), all of which along with the
Editor, Indian Historical Quarterly have placed the Journal
of the Greater India Society on their exchange-list. The
Sino-Indian Institute (Peiping) has also signified its willing-

ness to co-operate with the Society.
8 © © © © 6

‘The Greater India Society welcomes the promising young
scholar, Dr. Bahadur Chand Chhabra of the Punjab, who has
just returned to India after taking his Doctorate Degree from
the University of Leiden. His thesis bearing the title the
‘Expansion of Indo-Aryan Culture during the Pallava Rule’
has just been published in the Journal of the Asiatic Society,
Bengal.

Google
Select Contents of Oriental Journals

Ostasiatisohe Zeitsohrift, Nous Folge, 10 Jahrg, 1-2, 84,
heft, 1984.

STEFAN Batazs.—Die Inachriften der Sammlung Baron von
der Heydt (pp. 24-29 and 80-90)—Notice of eight inscrip-
tions dating mostly from the sixth or seventh century
and mostly belonging to the category of Buddhist sacred
steles.

Lupwic BACHHOFER.—Die Anfidnge der buddhistischen Plastik
in China: (pp. 1-15 and 107-126}—Preface. 1—The
Southern Route: India, Further India and South China.
Il—The Northem Route: North India and Gandhara,
Central Asia, North China and South China: IIl—Con-
clusion: The author concludes that the penetration of
Buddhism into China was a fact of extraordinary import-
ance as it brought the idea of the existence and value
of Plastic art into China. UNG.

Bijdragen tot de Taal- Land- en Volkenkunde van
Nederlandsch-indie, Decl 92, aflevering 2.

W. F.  SrurterHeim.—Oudheidkundige  Aanteekeningen
(pp. 181-210). In the course of these archseological
notes the writer draws attention to a sorely damaged
sculpture discovered at Singhasri, bearing an inscrip-
tion dated in the Saka year 1254. The female statue
flanked by Bhajrava and Ganega figures is identified by
him with a Tantric aspect of Durga, while the same has
been supposed by Dr. Bosch to represent a Buddhist
deity called Guhyeévari. Another sculpture points to
the year 1049 as the time of king Erlangga’s death. The
much discussed term Vaprakeéoara, according to
Dr. Stutterheim, refers to a burial place of a royal
Personnes B.C.

Google
SELECT CONTENTS OF ORIENTAL JOURNALS 87
Djawa, Vol. XIV, No. I, 1934,

R. No. Dr. PoersaTjaraka EN Dr. G. Hooyvkaas.—Bharata-
yuddha (pp. 1-87). Introduction—The lineage of the
Bharatas—Analysis of contents of fifty-two cantos, with
notes Index of proper names—Metres.

U.N. G.

Ibid., Vol. XIV, Nos. 2 and 3, 1934.

A. StEINMANN.—Enkele opmerkingen betreffende de Plant-
omamenten van Mantingan (pp. 89-97}—Gives with
illustrations botanical identifications of the plants depict-
ed on the panels and medallions of Ratoe Kalinjmat's
mausoleum at Mantingan, a place to the south of
Djapara recognising Hindu and Chinese elements in the
atyle.

Wbid., Nos. 4, 6 and 6, 1984.

W. F. STUTTERHEIM.—De oudheden-cdlllectie Resink-wilkens
te Jogiakarta (pp. 167-197)—A descriptive catalogue of a
private collection comprising a number of fine specimens
of images, both in stone and metal, and pija' imple-
ments, belonging to Buddhism and Brahmanism.

B.C.C.

Tijdschrift voor Indisohe Taal- Land- en Volkenkunde,
Deel LXXIV, affeveringen 2-4, 1934.

‘W. F. Srurternem.—Een Vrij overzetveer te Wanagiri
(M.N.) in 903 A.D. (pp. 269-295)—A duplicate set of
copper-plates has been discovered near Wanagiri
(Soerakarta) written in Mid. nese script. They con-
tain an order issued by Sri Maharaja Rake Watu Kura
Dyah Balitung Sri Dharmodayamahaéambhu to the Raka
of W8lar to construct a ferry in the year 903 A.D. The
writer further discusses the titles and facts known from
several other inscriptions of the same king Balitung.

Google
BOOKS RECEIVED

The Greater India Society acknowledges with thanks the

receipt of the following books, periodicals, reports,
pamphlets etc.

Ostasiatische Zeitschrift, Berlin: (Neue Folge—9 Jahrg.
5 Heft (935; 10th Jahre. 1&2 Hoh 1938, id, SG
Bite: Heid, 9 Hel Net

awa, Jogiskarta : 1, Jan, 1934; ibid.,
Noob & 8 fone igs, oareens Nov 1s Jan, 1954: 4

Bulletin de !' Ecole Fragaise d’Extréme-Orient, Hanoi :

Cronaca della Missione Scientifica Tucci nel Tibet
Occidentale (1934)—By G. Tucci and E. Ghersi, Rome,

Die Inschriften der Sammlung Baron von der Heydt: By
Stefan Balazs, Berlin: (Reprint from Ost. Zeit
Indian Historical Quarterly, Calcutta: (Vol. IX, Nos.
3 & 4, Vol. X, No. 4).

7. Bulletine of the Madras Government Museum, Madras:

MW.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.

17.
18.
19,

(e) Three, main styles of temple-architectire recog:
y F.

nized by the sil Ipasaetras: |. Gravely and
(b) Tiruparuttikunram and its temples: By T. N.

achandran.

Buddha Prabha, Bombay, Vol. 2, No. 4, Vol. 3, No. 1.
Yoga, Bulsar, Vol. 2, No. 12.

Religious Intercourse between Ceylon and Siam in the
13th-15th centuries. By S, Paranavitana, Colombo :
(Reprint from the Journal of the Ceylon Branch RAS.)
Buddhism in a nut-shell: By Bhikkhu Narada, Bambala-

Estimbi University Quarterly, New York, (September,
The Attack on Liberalism : By Murray Butler, New York
(Carnegie Endowment for International Peace).

Archaolony in Gwalior” By M. B. Garde, Gwalior,

A Guide to the Archaeological Museum at Gwalior,
Department of Archeology, Gwalior.
Nos. | to 4 of the Journal published by the Chinese
Academy of Buddhist Learning, Nanking, China [In
nese].
Annual Report of the Varendra Research Society for
1932-34, Rajehahi. |
Quarterly Journal of the Mythic Society (Silver Jubilee
Number—July-October, 1934) Bangalore, January 1935.
Young Asia, Rome: (Vol. 1, No. 1, March 1934).
The Colas: By K, A. Nilakanta Sastr, Madras, (Madras
University Historical Series No. 9).

Google
JOURNAL OF THE GREATER INDIA SOCIETY
SELECT OPINIQNS OF SCHOLARS

Dr. N. J. Krom (Leiden) :—
“I have much pleasure in...............congratulating you

as the editor of so sound a volume containing new and

interesting information. May it be the first of a long series,

maintaining the same high standard.”

Dr. Georce Capes (Hanoi) :—

“I have read with much interest the first issue of the
Journal of the Greater India Society, which contains valuable
papers by prominent scholars...
Dr. G. Tucct (Rome) :—

“Your Journal ie becoming one of the leading reviews.”
Dr. Lupwic BACHHOFER (Munich) :—

“A careful study has proved the serious and surely
scientific character of the Journal.”

Dr. W. PercevaL Yerts (London) :—

“I have read with much pleasure and profit the
Journal..."

Dr. WaLTeR LesenTHAL (Peiping) :—

“I certainly appreciate the value of your purposes and
achievements.”

Dr. R. O. Winstept (Johore):—

“Your excellent Journal.”

S. PARANAVITANA, Esq. (Colombo) :—

“I have read the Journal with much interest and appre-
ciation. It serves a very useful purpose in that it brings the
results of the important researches carried on by the French
and Dutch savants to the notice of those students who cannot
read those contributions in the original French and German.”
Dr. A. J. Bennet Kempers (Voorburg) :—

“The contents have greatly interested me...
D. K. Boscu (Batavia) :—

.the last issues of the Journal. .+-.contained
-eschighly interesting things on the Archipelago, proving
to what extent Hindu-Javanese and Sumatran history and
archeeology may profit. in the future, from the experience
and knowledge of Indian scholare....

Dr.

Google
Original from

Digitized by Google . UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
Journal of the Greater India Society

A six-monthly Journal devoted to the investigation of Indian
cultural influences abroad and specially in Eastern and
South-Eastern Asia.

_ Contents of Vol. I. No. 1, 1934

J. Prayluski—indian influence on Western thought before
and during the third century A.D.; G. 0. Blagden—The
use of the Visarga symbol in some of the languages of
Greater India; Rs C. Majumdar—The Sailendra Empire;
Vidhushekhara_Bhattacharya—Depung,—the _ Monastic
University of Tibet; M. B. Sarkar—An Old-Javanese
Inscription from Ngabean of the Saka year BUI; Ibid.,
Two notes on the cultural contact between Java and
Bengal; D. P. Ghosh—Early Art of Srivijaya.

\ Contents of Val. I. No. Il, 1934

G. Coedes—On the origin of the Sailendras of Indonesia
R. C. Majumdar—Struggie between the Sailendras and
the Cholas; J. Przyluski—Indian Colonisation in Sumatra
before the seventh century; H. B. Sarkar—An Old-
Javanese loan-record of the Saka year 833; Es Obermuler
—Sanyata and its different interpretations; H. Meinhard—
Ancient Indian Culture in Bali.

Published twice a year in January and in July:
Annual subscription Rupees four or eight shillings
only, exclusive of postage: Agents outside India: Messrs.

Luzac & Co., 46, Greet Russell Street, London, W. C. 1.

JsUST OUT! JUST OUTI
Indian Influences on the Literature of Java and Ball

By Himansu Bhusan Sarkar, M.

Research Scholar in History, Dacca University

This work ix based on an exhaustive study of the Uld-Javanese

literature as made available through the researches of a host of Dutch

scholars. It presents a comprehensive survey of different branches of

tho literature of Old-Java, both sucred and profane, and throws new
light on a number of points.

CONTENTS
Cuaeren Pack
is lo-Javaneso contact and the dialects of the fj
1, Sacred Literature—(A) the Veda .
(B) the Brakmindapnray . . v
II, Sacred Literature, contd.—Some other works of a

Tuwanie a

IV, Sacred Literature, concluded—the Sarya-svand,
Mantras and charms... a, ot
The Agama or Dharmasdstrus of Indonesia‘. x
Wariga and connectad literat . 106

works—The Riimayina Kakawin oe
works, contd. —the later Rawiyanas 193
works, contd—Ramayana

Mihisa or Epi
Itihasa or Epi
Mihisa or bpi
Tecensions in stone texts
X. Mihiisa or Epic works, contd
of stories in Kawi)...
Itihasa oF Epic works, contd.—the
Itihdsa or Epic works, concluded—
The Muhabharata-cyel> of stories
The Epic Literature and Wayany stories
Miscellaneous works of Java and Bali
ids and. romances of Java and Bali
The Tantri Kamandaka and other heast-‘i
Inscriptions and Historical Literature
‘onclusion .
Additional Note:
index

the

ahabhavata

Aiddenda et Ca
Price Rup Postage Extra:
21, Badurbagan Row. The Honorary Secretery,

Calcutta. ~ GREATER INDIA SOCIETY.
Google
i
2
a

“
5.

1
a
a

Press, 9. Panc

PUBLICATIONS OF THE

Greater India Society.

BULLETING

Greater tndia—By Dr. Kalidas Nog, (t he revissuod),
India and China—Dy Dr. Prabodh Chandra Bagchi (fo he re-istu-d),
Indian Culture In Java and Sumatra—Revised and enlarged edition. Part 1
Text. By Dr, B. B. Chatterji, Part If Inscriptions, By Dr. N. P.
Chakravarti and Dr. B. R. Chatterjee Rs. 2.
India and Gentral Asia—By Dr. N. P. Chakravarti (fo he reissued),
Anolent indian Culture in Afghanistan ty Dr. U.N

PUBLICATIONS

Anolent Indian Colonies in the Far East—Vol. I.

C. Majumdar, Rs. 15.
Hindu Law and Custom—(Only authorized English’ translation of Dr.
Julius Jolly's Recht and Sitte)—By Dr. B. K. Ghosh, Rs. 10-8
Social Life in Anolent indla—(Studies in Vateyayana’s Kiimasitra—By
Prof. H. C. Chakladar. Rs.

Pratima Laksanam (Sanskrit and Tibetan)—By Prof, P. N. Bose.

Rs. 4.
Indian Literature in China and the Far East—liy Prof. P. K.
Mukherji. Rs. 3.
GREATER INDIA STU:

Indian Influences on the Literature of Java and Bali—liy Himansu
Bhusan Sarkar, M.A. Rs.
Travels of Tibetan Pligrims to the Swat Valley—Hy Dr Giuseppe Tucci.
(To be unftertaken shortly).

OTHER PUBLICATIONS

Indian Colony of Siam—Ry Prof. P. N. Bose.
{EA ATA (Hindi Edition of Bulletin No, 1.) (To bs
FEA StAS (Bengali Edition of Rnlletin No. 1.)

To be had of the GREATER INDIA SOCIETY’S Office

21 BADURBAGAN ROW, P.O. AMHERST STREET,
CALCUTTA
Printed and Pulished by Sj. Raghunath Seal, at the Calcutta Oriental

n Ghose Lane, Caleutta,

Google
Vol. I, No. 2. v.2 July, 1935

Edited by
U.N. GHOSHAL

Agents Outside India :— Messrs. LUZAC & Co., 46, Great Russell Street, London, W.C

Google UN

GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

AIMS AND OBJECTS
To organize the study of Indian culture in Greater India [i-e.
Serindia, India Indo-China and _ Insulin well as
in Chit and other countries of Asi
r blication of the resul.s of researches into the
spiritual and cultural relations with the outside

3 To create an interest in the history of Greater India and connected
problems among the students in the schools, colleges and Univer-
sities of India by instituting a systematic study of those subjects and
to take proper steps to stimulate the same.

To popularise the knowledge of Greater India by orga
meetings, lan:em lectures, exhibitions and conferences.

MEMBERSHIP RULES

The annual subscription payable by the members is Rs. 12/- orly.
Members are entitled to receive the publications of the Society at
concession rates and copies of the Journal of the: Society free of cost.

For rates of advertisement etc.
Apply to the Hon. Secretary,
GREATER INDIA SOCIETY.
21, Badurbagan Row,
P.O. Amherst Street, Calcutta.

GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

PURODHA

Dr. Rabinilra Nath Tagore.
PATRONS:

Maharaja of Pithapuram, Sir J. C. Bose, Sir R. N. Mookerjee,
Sir B. L. Mitter, etc.

MANAGING COMMITTEE FOR 1036-5

President—Sit P. C. Ray, Kt,

Hony. Secretary—Dr. U, N. Ghoshal, Ph.D.

Hony. Joirt-Secretary—Dr. Kalidas Nag, D.Litt (Paris).

Cther members of the Committee—Rai Bahadur Rama Prasad
Chenda, B.A., F.A.S.B.; Dr. Suniti Kumar Chatterji,
D.Litt. “(Lond.); Dr. Prabodh Chandra Bagchi, D.Litt.
(Paris); Dr, Nalinaksha Dutt, D.Litt (Lond); O.
Gangely, Esq.i Dr. Narendra Nath Law, Ph.
Gepal Majumdar, Esq., M.A.; Jitendra Nath
Esq. M.A.

Journcl Sub-Committee for 1934-35—Drs. U. N. Ghoshal,
Kalidas Nag, Narendra Nath Law, Nalinsksha Dutt,
Prabodh Chandra Bagchi and Suniti Kumar Chatter.

Google
THE
JOURNAL OF THE GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

duty: 1935
CONTENTS
Articles . Page
Contributions from the Mahavamsa to our knowledge
“of the Medieeval Culture of Ceylon “ a 89
By Dr. Wilh. Geiger, Ph.D.
Veda and Avesta one ae WZ
By Dr. Batakrishna Ghosh, ‘PRD. D.Litt.
The Influx of Indian Sculpture into Fu-nan ... we 122
By Dr. Ludwig Bachhofer, Ph.D.
A Sanskrit Manual of Tsonkhapist Warship ... wa 128

By Dr. E, Obermiller, Ph.D.
The Old-Javanese Copper-Plates from Sidoteka
of the Saka Year 1245 oo
By Himansu Bhusan Serkar, M.A.
Notices of Books
Baron A. von Staél-Holstein, On two recent recons-
tructions of @ Sanskrit Hymn transliterated with
Chirlese characters. Reviewed » Vidhushekhara
Bhattacharya we 159
Baron A. von StaélHolstein, On @ Peking Edition of
the Tibetan Kanjur. Reviewed by Vidhushekhara

- 131

Bhattacharya . . i we 161
M. Prijohoetomo, Nawaruci. Reviewed by B.G. _ ... 162
Midden-Oost Borneo Expeditie 1925. Reviewed

by BG. ee wes 163
Giuseppe Tucci, IndoTibetica, vol. Ill. Reviewed

by P.N. Roy... vos 164
A. J. Bemet-Kempers, De Indiache Cultuurstroom.

Reviewed by B. Ch. Chhabra . eos 165
Misoollany 168
Obituary Notices

Gabriel Ferrand. By Kalidas Nag, M-A., D.Litt. ... 169

Louis Finot. By Kalidas Nag, M.A., D.Litt. ve. 170
Select Contents of Oriental Journals ve ve 174

Google
arses» Google

THE JOURNAL

GREATER INDIA SOCIETY
Vou. ty duty: 1935, No. 2

Contributions from the Mahavamsa
to our Knowledge of the Mediaeval
Culture of Ceylon.

By Dr. Wilh. Geiger.

It is easy to understand that the priestly compilers of
the Mahdvamsa had a bias to ecclesiastical things and
often omitted or suppressed facts which are of the greatest
interest to a modern reader. Nevertheless the Mahavamea
is still our best and most reliable source for the knowledge
of Sinhalese history and civilisation. If we try to describe
the mediaeval period, we have to refer to the oldest
portion of the so-called Calavamsa—Mhovs. 37, 51-79, 84. (Cf.
THQ., V1, 1930, p. 206). This part of the chronicle covers
the whole period from the end of the fourth century A. C.
to the twelfth century A. C. and is composed by
Dhammakitti, The hero most highly praised by the poet
is King Parakkamabahu I (1153-1166 A.C). The story of
his life and deeds (chs. 62-79) forms more than a
half of Dhammakitti's compilation. The chapters 37 to 61
must be regarded as an ample introduction to the “Epic
of Parakkama’™ (Cf. Copleston, JRAS., Ceylon Branch,
XIIL, no. 44 (1843), pp. 600q. The era of Parakkama
represents the acme of the mediaeval civilisation of Ceylon

Google
0 WILH. GEIGER

and what we have to say in the following pages chiefly
bears on that era. The account of the chronicle referring
to it may be said to be fairly reliable since Dhammakitti
finished his work a short time after the king's death and
therefore knew things and events from his own experience.
What he relates in the first half of his compilation serves
as a supplement and sometimes elucidates the historical
developments. Errors and anachronisms may occur in
these chapters.

We must also not overlook the second part of the
Calavamsa (chs. 79, 85-90, 102; 1186-1333 A.C.) the favourite
hero of which is Parakkamabahu II (1225-1269 A. C.) 20
that the whole mediaeval period of Sinhalese history extends
from about 362 to 1333 A.C. The author of this portion
of the chronicle and the exact date of its compilation are
unknown ; probably we have to assign it to the I4th or [5th

century.

I need not add that the mediaeval Sinhalese inscriptions
are of great importance as contemporaneous reports, which
often enable us to check and to supplement the statements
of the chronicle. On the other hand the sciondary Sinhalese
books like Pajdvaliya (13th century), Rajaratnakaraya
(16th century) and Rajavaliya are of comparatively little
value, as they have the character of extracts and attend
not much to general civilisation but chiefly to chronology
and church history.

1. THE KING AND THE ROYAL COURT
(I) The King and his family.

1. The form of Government in Ceylon was, as almost
everywhere in India, absolute. The king was the culmi-
nating point of the pyramid which represents the state,
and the centre of political life. What I have to say about
the position of the king and the royal family in mediaeval
Ceylon is partly extracted from and partly added to the
introduction of my translation of Calavamsa I, pp. xv pqq-

Google
THE MEDIAEVAL CULTURE OF CEYLON ”

Besides the word rajan all the names and titles exist
for the king which we meet with in the Sanskrit literature.
Some of them are somewhat bombastic and grandiose
for the ruler of a comparatively small island like Ceylo1
He may not only be given the title “Great King’
(maharaja), but also ‘Ruler of the Kings’ (rajadhiraja)
or “Lord of the earth” (mahipati, etc.), even if he has
never conquered any kingdom outside Lanka. Frequently
the king is styled deva ‘God’ as in Sanskrit. The title
approximately corresponds to our ‘Majesty’.

2. It is often emphasised in the Mahdvamsa that the
kings of Ceylon are scions of the suriya-vamsa, the
Solar Dynasty. Vijaya, the first king, came according to
the tradition from Sthapura, the capital of Kaliiga, and
was the son of king Sihabahu. The royal dynasty of
Kalinga boasts of its descent from the Solar line. Ratanavali,
the mother of Parakkamabahu I, was a daughter of
the Kalinga princess Tilokasundari (Mhvs. 59.29) and is
called (63.11) an ornament of the Sun-dynasty (adiccanvaya),
Some of the Sinhalese kings sprang from the Lambakanna
clan. This was the case in ancient times with King
Vasabha with his son and grandson (2nd century) and the
five kings of the so-called Superior Dynasty (mahdvamsa)
Samghabodhi and Got haya with his
two sons Jetthatissa and Mahasena (Mhvs. 35.59, 36.58 aq.)
In the mediaeval period Silakala was a Lambakanna
(Mhos. 39. 44). It seems that this clan was a branch of
the royal family and (like it) of the Solar line. Mogallana,
the son of Dhatusena and afterwards (496-513 A.C.) king
of Ceylon, is expressly called (Mhus. 39.46) a kinsman
(fidtaka) of Silakala. Other Sinhalese kings were scions
of the Moriya clan, as in the 5th century was Dhatusena
(Mhos. 38.13-35) the father of Kassapa | and Moggallana
I, and in the 6th century was Mahanaga (41.69-70)
with his son Aggabodhi I, and grandson Aggabodhi II.
This clan, too, probably belonged to the Solar race.
According to the Indian tradition Ikgvaku (P. Okkaka)
stands at the head of the Solar dynasty, but in the

Google
2 WILH. GEIGER

Mahavamsa (2. | sq.) and other Buddhist sources many
kings are enumerated before Ikgvaku. The firet of them
is Mahasammata. We understand therefore that in the
Mhos. Okkaka is called the ancestor of some Sinhalese
kings and Mahasammata of others. It is said (Mhus.
99.77) that at the time of Kit ‘@jasiha in the second
half of the 18th century the chronicle contained the history
of all the kings from Mahasammata up to the rulers
residing in Hatthiselapura (now Kurunégala), i.e, up to
the beginning of the 14th century. Manavamma, about
700, is called a descendant of Mahasammata ; Mahitissa,
ruler of Rohapa and father of king Dappula I (7th century),
and Sahassamalla are called descendants of Okkaka
(Mhos. 47. 2 ; 45.38 ; 80. 32).

In their inscriptions Sinhalese kings often boast of their
descent from the Solar dynasty. Parakkamabahu | says
in the Galvihira inscription that he has come in unbroken
succession from Mahsammata born of the Solar race
(Ed. Miller, Ancient Inscriptions of Ceylon, no. 137, 1.53
Epigraphia Zeylanica Il, p. 268°). King Mahinda IV (956-972
A.C.) says in the Mihintale tablets (AIC., no. 121 A,
Ep.Z.1. p.91A',) that his father Abbaya Sal
Kassapa V is descended from an unbroken line of kings
of the Okkaka family. The same descent is pretended
by Nissattka Malla (1187-1196 A.C.) in several inscriptions
and he calls himeel tar on the forehead of the family of
the Sun (AIC., no. 145, 147, 148; Ep.Z. Il, p. 78°, 109? &c).

3. Inavery interesting paper published in the Ceylon
Journal of Science (section G. Il, p. 235 sq., 1933) S. Para-
navitana has shown that matrilineal descent was often
decisive, at least at a certain period of time. Gajabahu
(1137-1153) is considered to belong to the Kalinga stock
(Kalingagotta-sambhita-G*, Mhos. 63.8), though neither his
father nor hie grandfather were scions of the Kalinga dyna
But his mother Sundari and his grandmother Tilokasundari
were Kalinga princesses. Parakkamabahu I himself cannot
trace his Solar descent on paternal ; for his father Mana-
bharana’ was the son of Vijayabahu’s sister Mitta,’ who had

Google
THE MEDIAEVAL CULTURE OF CEYLON B

married a Paindu prince of the Moon Dynasty, but belonged
herself to the Solar line as well as Parakkamabahu's mother
Ratanavali (see above).

Sirivallabha after the death -of his brother Manabharana’
wishes to marry his and Ratanavali’s daughter Mitta® to his
own son Manabharana” (Mhvs. 63.6 2q.). But Ratanavali
refuses her consent, because Manabharana’ is of ariya-
vamea and therefore not of equal birth. Paranavitana is
certainly right that this does not refer to the fact that
the wooer’s grandfather, the consort of Mitta’, was a
Pandu prince, for the Pandus belong to the Lunar line, the
scions of which were always considered to be of equal
birth with those of the Solar race (Mhos. 63. 14). But Sugala.
the mother of the wooer, was the grand daughter of Lilavati,
the consort of Jagatipala who had come from Northern India,
Ayodhya (Mhos. 56. 13). He was probably a Rajpit. His
daughter Yasodharé and Yasodha: daughter Sugala.
belonged to the same caste. The Rajpits are called Ariyé
in Southern India, and here this name is applied to them by
no means with the same respect that they enjoy in their
own country. The ariya-oamea was not believed to be equal
to the suriya or soma-vamsa. Inspite of Ratanavali's
opposition the marriage of Mitta’ with Manabharana?
‘was consummated.

We meet however at the same time also with patrilineal
instances. Thus harana, the father of Parakka-
mabahu I, says: ‘‘We are sprung from the pure Moon-
dynasty’’ suddhe somavamsamhi abhijata mayam, (Mhovs.
62.5), apparently because his father was a Pandu.
Lilavati, Parakkamabahu I's queen, is called (Mhus. 80. 50)
an offspring of the Moon and Sun family (candadiccakalé-
dita). She was the daughter of Sirivallabha, Manabharana’'s
youngest brother, and belonged to the Solar line on the
maternal side by her grand-mother Mitta’ and to the
Lunar race on the paternal side by her grand-father the
Pandu prince who was Mitts husband.

I have to add a few words about the differentiation of
@ superior and an inferior dynasty (Mahavamsa and

Google
4 WILH. GEIGER

Calavamsa) in Ceylon (Cf. Rajavaliya, tr. by B. Gunasekara,
p. 52). The last king of the so-called superior dynasty was
Mahisena, the first one of the inferior dynasty Sirimegha-
vanna. But the latter was the son of the former and it
is nowhere said that he was not a legitimate son. How
can we explain, therefore, the gap between the two
kings? | think that differentiation was a later invention
based ona false interpretation of the word Mahdvamsa.
As the title of the epic, it does not mean the great dynasty
but simply ‘the great chronicle’. The more ancient name
is according to the Tika (p. 1837,502l) padyapaddru-
vamsa which cannot be otherwise translated than as ‘versi-
fied great chronicle’ and does certainly not allude to a
dynasty. In contradistinction to that name the later
portions of the work were often, but not always, called
Calavamsa ‘the little chronicle’. The word vamsa, chronicle,
frequently occurs in the names of books, as in dipavamea
‘the chronicle of the Island’, thipavamsa ‘the chronicle of the
thipas’, bodhivamsa ‘the chronicle of the Bodhi tree’, &c.

4. It was believed that peculiar marks (lakkhandni)
were visible on the body of a prince who was to become a
great and mighty monarch. Kitti who afterwards conquered
the Colas and ruled Ceylon (1059-1114 A.C.) under the name
of Vijayabahu 1. was, asa distinguished soothsayer stated
immediately after his birth, dhajifialakkhanasampanna
‘possessing bodily marks of future good fortune’* (Mhos.
57.49). The same is said of his son Vikkamabahu who
became king in the year 1116 after the short reign of his
uncle Jayabahu I (Mhus. 59.32). Nay, the mother of a
future prominent king was furnished with such lakkhandni.
We are told (Mhos. 59.34 eq.) that one day Vijayabahu who
was versed in signs (lakkhanafifiu) gazed on each of his
daughters born of Queen Tilokasundari, but he perceived on
none of them except on Rat ali the sign of the birth of
a son himself furnished with auspicious marks. And he
kissed her and predicted: ‘this thy body shall be the place
for the birth of a son who will surpass all former and future
monarchs in glorious qualities’. Ratanavali’s son was Para-

Google
‘THE MEDIAEVAL CULTURE OF CEYLON 8

kkamabahu I, and the days of his conception and his birth
were distinguished by many extraordinary signs and marvell-
ous events. The house priest and the brahmanas after care-
fully observing all the marks on the hands and feet of the
new-born boy announced to the King and the Queen that
apart from the island of Lanka he would be able to unite
under one umbrella and to rule even the whole of Jambu-
dvipa (Mhus. 62. 12 8q., 37 sq.). The umbrella (P. chatta,
Sinh. sata) is the symbol of sovereignty, and the kings of
Ceylon when dating one of their inscriptions generally
reckon it from the year in which they ‘have raised the
umbrella’. Cf. tuma sat lai salosvana havuruduyehi
“‘in the sixteenth year after he raised ldngu = P. langhita)
the royal umbrella.” (A IC. nos, 121A; Ep.Z. 1, p- 91
A’, 10th o.).

5. The consecration of a new king, abhiseka, (moli-man-
gala) was a ceremony which used to be performed with great
pomp in the most solemn manner. The things needful for
the ceremony are the royal ornaments, the diadem, the um-
brella and the throne (alamkdrakiriani chattasihasanani
ca, Mbhos. 56.3); a pdsdda, probably a hall is mentioned
(ibid., 59.2) to have been erected for the purpose.

The abhiseka was performed when the government
of the new king appeared to be firmly established.
In connection with this rule sometimes a second
consecration took place after a great political success.
Parakkamabahu I was consecrated at the instance of the
dignitaries the first time when he ascended the throne
after king Gajabahu (Mhvs. 71.28) though at that time his
succession was opposed by his cousin Manabhi A
second abhiseka was held in the most splendid form
after Manabharana’s death (Mhvs. 72.311 9q.). Parakkama-
bahu II (1236-1271 A.C.) was also consecrated twice, the
first time when he succeeded his father (Mhvs. 82. 2.). The
second abhiseka took place when the king had already
abdicated, and an honorary ceremony was arranged by his
eon Vijayabahu IV after the reconstruction of the capital
Pulatthinagara or Polonnaruva (Mhvs. 89. 10). It is how-

Google
6 ‘WILH. GEIGER

ever remarkable that the coronation of Vijayabahu I
(1059-1114 A. C.) was held in Anuradhapura (Mhos. 59. 8)
after he had conquered the Colas, though he took up his
residence in Pulatthinagara (59. 10). At that time Anuradha-
pura was still considered as the sacred ancient capital of
the kingdom.

Mahinda I (724-727 A. C.), as an exception, never under-
went the abhiseka ceremony (Mhvs. 48. 26 2q., 31). He
therefore did not accept the title king, but remained
Gdipada (Sinh. pa).

6. In the Mahdvamsa-Tika, (Col. ed., pp. 213-14) there
is an interesting passage which contains a description of
the abhiseka. Since the work is certainly composed before
the middle of the 13th century (cf. Geiger, Dipavamsa
und Mahavamsa, p. 37), its author could have a knowledge
of the abhiseka, as it was performed in the mediaeval era,
and of the traditions connected with it. The ceremony
took place, we are told, in a hall constructed of adumbara
wood (ficus glomerata). The khattiya who was to be
consecrated was sitting on a throne made of the same kind
of wood. First a maiden of the warrior clan (khattya-
kafifia) took with both hands a marine shell which was
filled with water from the Ganges river and the spiral of
which was winding to the right, poured water on the king's
head and said:‘‘Oh Majesty, all the clans of the warrior
caste make thee for their own protection and security by
this consecration a consecrated king ; rule thou with justice
and peace persisting in the. law, be thou one who hasa
compassionate heart towards those of the warrior clans,
who are filled with sorrows about their sons and the like,
and one who hasa kind and peaceful and friendly heart,
and be thou guarded by their protection, defence and
ward." Then the domestic chaplain (purohita) of the
royal court, attired in his richest apparel, poured water on
the king's head from a silver shell with the same words
only substituting ‘brahmana clans’ for ‘warrior
clans'—finally the foreman of the guilds (Sefthi)
in his official garb performed the same ceremony

Google
THE MEDIAEVAL CULTURE OF CEYLON 7

for the householder clans (gahapati-gana), using a jewel
shell (ratana-sankha).

According to the Tika in the address of the three
persons a curse is implied: “‘If thou wilt rule in the
manner as we said, well,—but if thou dost not do so,
thy head will split into seven pieces.’”

As the Tika tells us in agreement with the
Mahdavamsa, the abhiseka was introduced in the second
half of the third century B. C., in the time of King
Devanampiyatissa. He was the friend of King Asoka,
although they had never seen each other. Asoka sent
hie friend all the things needful for the ceremony (cf.
Mbos. ||. 28-36) and entreated him to perform it in the
manner which was customary in India. The Sinhalese
kings were consecrated even before that time, but the
ceremony was simple and unpretentious. The ancient
kings, as it is said in the Tika, only reigned with a new
sceptre (kevalam navayatthiya rajjam karesum). Devanam-
piyatissa himself was first consecrated in this manner, but
his second consecration took place according to the more
solemn rite. The historical kernel of the whole tradition
may be the fact that the mediaeval abhiseka in Ceylon
‘was an imitation of the Indian ceremony.

7. The new king often or perhaps regularly adopted
a new name when he ascended the throne. Dathasiva
(7th cent.) calls himself Dathopatissa (Mhovs. 44. 128),
Hatthadatha assumes the same name (45.22). Kitti's name
after the accession to the throne is Vijayabahu (58.1). It is
‘said (54.10) that King Mahinda IV (956-72 A.C.) had two
sons. Their names were (54. 57-58) Sena and Udaya.
Sena V, Mahinda’s successor, made his brother Udaya
yuvaraja, But in 55.1 Sena’s brother and successor is called
Mahinda. I believe that this was the name adopted by
Udaya when he ascended the throne. Mahinda V's son was
Kassapa (55.23). When he came to the throne, the Sihalas
gave him the name of Vikkamabahu (56.1). Even in
ancient times Gothabhaya (4th cent. A.C.) assumed the
name Meghavagnabhaya (36.98). The surname Sirisamgha-

2

Google
98 WILH. GEIGER

bodhi was for the first time assumed by Aggabodhi
Ill (7th cent.) (44. 83), no doubt in honour of the pious
king of the Lambakanna clan bearing this name who lived
in the 4th cent. A.D. As Aggabodhi’s predecessor
was Silameghavanna, in the sequel these two epithets
were used alternatively so that when a king bears the
surname isamghabodhi, his successor calls himself
Silameghavanna and conversely (Wickremasinghe, Ep. Z. II,
Pp. 9). In inscriptions the kings often mention only their
surname so that the dating becomes sometimes difficult,
is 80 many
in the list of the Sinhalese ki

8. The title of the king's consort was mahesi (Sk.
mahigi, Sinh. mehesiya), and she was addressed devi.
In the abhiseka ceremony the queen acted an important
réle, nay it seems that since ancient times the existence
of a mahesi is presupposed in the ceremony. Already
Vijaya is said to have declined the abhiseka without a
kRhattiyakafiia as mahesi (Mhvs. 7. 47). But it was the
king himself who, probably after his own consecr 5
consecrated the queen. The phrase is always like this:
Seno Samgham mahesitte (mahesibhave) _abhisecayi
(abhisifici, thapesi) (Mhus. 51. 6, 59. 25, etc.). There were,
asa rule, in the mediaeval period two mahesis (cf. A. M-
Hocart, C. J. Sc. 1. 205, Il. 34). This seems to have been an
ancient custom. Anuladevi and Somadevi were the queens
of King Vattagamani (Ist cent. B. C.) (Mhus. 33. 45-46).
The two queens of Vijayabahu | (1059-1114 A. C.)
were Lilavati' and Tilokasundari (59. 25, 29), those of
Parakkamabahu I—Ripavati and Lilavati?. The former
was the daughter of his paternal uncle Kittisirimegha
(Mhos. 73. 136 9q., the note | in my Cilavamea tr. Il, p. 17
is wrong), the latter of his other uncle Sirivallabha (80. 31).
Nissanka Malla mentions in one of his inscriptions as his
aggamahesi the Kalinga princess Subhadra, in the Galpota
two aggamahesis Subhadraé and Kalyana of the Ganga-
vamea (AIC., nos. 145, 148 B. 2-3; Ep. Z. Il, p. 106, B*)
Rulers of Rohaga who never became kings of Lanka also

Google
THE MEDIAEVAL CULTURE OF CEYLON ~”

teem to have had two queens. Those of the younger
Ménabharana’ were Mitta and Pabhavati, the sisters of
Parakkamabahu I. They are however not called mahesi,
but simply devi and dutiya devi (Mhos. 64.19, 24); the
tittle mahesi apparently depends on the solemn conse-
cration.

From the title aggamahesi (‘highest mahesi’) we may infer
that there was a difference of rank between the two queens,
and this will indeed have been the case in ancient times.
But we have seen that already at the time of Nissanka
Malla both queens bore the title aggamahesi, and Canda
Parakkamabahu I's widow, calls herself in an inscription
(Ep. Z. Il. 241?") dutiyam aggatam gata, who has attained
to the posi of the second agga (mah Concerning
Narindastha and Vijayardjasiha (18th century) the chronicle
tells us that they brought royal princesses from Madhura
and made them highest mahesis (katvd aggamahesiyo,
Mhps. 97. 24, 98. 4).

9. Itis a matter of course that for the king's marriage
political considerations were never neglected and often
became decisive. According to the tradition in Mhvs.
7.48 sqq., the first king of Ceylon fetched the daughter
of the Pandu king from Madhura to consecrate her as his
queen. The Pandya kingdom is nearly co-extensive with
the present districts of Madura and Tinnevelly in Southern-
most India (V. A. Smith, Early History of India, p. 335),
separated from Ceylon by the Gulf of Mannar. Political
relations between the Sinhalese and the Pandus are,
therefore, well intelligible. The Pandus were often the
adversaries of the Sinhalese, invading the island and
pillaging towns and villages (Mhus. 50.12 sq., 51. 27 sq.,
9th cent.) or they were assisted by the Sinhalese in wars
against the Colas (52.70 sq., I0th cent., 76. 76 sq, 12th
cent.). But we hear little of intermarriage between the
two dynasties in the mediaeval era. Vijayabahu | first
gave his sister Mitta’ away in marriage to a Pandu
prince. He seems to have resided in Ceylon; the
three sons of the wedded couple were living in Rohana

Google
100 WILH. GEIGER

(v. above). More frequent becomes the union of the
Sinhalese royal family with the Pandu line in modern times.
Rajastha II (1635-87 A. C.) is said to have fetched kings”
daughters from Madhura to Ceylon (Mhus. 96. 40) probably
as wives for his dignitar Vimaladhammasuriya II (1687-
1707) made a Pandu princess his consort (97.2), and the same
is related concerning his two successors Narindasiha and
Vijayarajastha (v. above 8).

The relations with the royal family of Kalinga are of
greater importance. Vijaya’s grandmother was a Kalitga
princess, and the capital of Kalinga, Sthapura, was founded
by his father Sihabahu (Mhos. 6. | 9q.). Ratanavalt, who
herself is called a Ki says “‘After the prince,
named Vijaya, had slain all the Yakkhas and made ¢
island of Lanka habitable for men, since then one has
allied the family of Vijaya with ours by union with
scions of the Kalinga line already in former times”
(63. 12-13). And her cousin Sirivallabha says: Princes
of the Kalinga dynasty have many times and oft attained
to dominion in # ind of Lanka (63.7). Mahinda IV
(956-972 A.C.) had as mahesia Kalinga princess named
Kitti and founded thus the royal house of the Sthalas.
Two sons were born of her, Sena and Udaya. Both
became kings after him (54.9-10,50,57; 55. 1; cf. 7).
We have seen above that Vijayabahu I's consort and
Vikkamabahu II's ¢onsort were ingie; Gajabahu is
called (63.8) an offspring of the Kalinga line. Nissanka
Malla and Magha (1211-1235 A. C.) were Kalingas (80.58).

Often anew king marries the widow of his predecessor.
Such marriages too have generally political reasons. The
new king wishes to prevent the forming of an oppo-
sition at court. Already Vattagimani’s first mahesi
Anula had been the wife of his brother Khallatanaga
(33.36). In mediaeval times Mahinda Il (772-792 A.C.)
married the queen of his predecessor Aggabodhi VII.
She was an outrageous woman, and he made her his

consort merely to keep her under his control, or as the
Mahdavamea (48. 113) saye, bacause she could neither be

Google
THE MEDIAEVAL CULTURE OF CEYLON tor

set free nor slain (paricattum ca maretum na sakka’ yam).

Mahinda V (981-1017 A.C.) also made the widow of his
elder brother and predecessor Sena V his mahesi and
when she died, shortly after he married her daughter
(Mhus. 55.8-9). The story of Mahanama (beginning of the
5th cent.) is somewhat different. The consort of his elder
brother Upatisea had murdered her husband out of
amorous passion for the younger brother Mahanama and
became his queen when he ascended the throne
(37.209 sq.)

10. Asto the right of succession I refer to what I have
id in Calavamea tr. 1, p. xx-xxi. The succession is ex-
clusively in the paternal line. After the death of Vijaya-
bahu I his younger brother Jayabahu became king in the
year 1114. This accession was undisputed, but presently
the eldest son of Jayabahu's sister claimed to be the
heir to the throne. As the Mhos. 61. 4 adds, thereby the
path of former custom was quitted, for the prior right of
succession was on the side of Vijayabahu's son Vikkama-
bahu who indeed ascended the throne after Jayabah
premature death and maintained it in the war with Mand-
bharana and his two brothers.

When a king died, not his son but “‘the next
younger brother succeeded him on the throne. Only
when no other brother existed did the crown pass to the
next generation, and here again to the eldest son of the
eldest brother of the preceding generation.””

A genealogical table describing the sequence of
Manavamma’s sons and grandsons in the 8th cent.
illustrates this custom :—

|, Manavamma
2. Agsabodhi v3. Kanye mH 4. Mahinda I.
(n0 son) 5. Aggabodhi VI 6. Aggabodhi VII

7. Mahinda II
There are frequent instances of such a sequence.
Sena Il (851-885 A.C.) had three younger brothers. The

Google
Woz WILH. GEIGER

eldest of them Mahinda died before him. Sena's
successor is, therefore, (1) the next brother Udaya ll and
then (2) Kassapa IV. After Kaseapa's death the next
generation takes its turn. First succeed the sons of Sena
according to their age: (3) Kassapa V, (4) Dappula Ill,
(5) Dappula IV, and after them the sons of Mahinda : (6)
Udaya Ill, (7) Sena Ill, and (probably) (8) Udaya IV.
Sena’s youngest brothers Udaya Il and Kassapa IV
seem to have left no legitimate heirs, or their offspring
have become extinct in the meantime. Thus after Udaya
IV's death the sons of Kassapa V, (9) Sena IV and (10)
Mahinda IV, come to the throne. It must be added
that with regard to Kassapa V and Sena IV it is expressly
stated in the Mhus. 52.37, 54.1 that they became kings in
regular succession (kamdgata), that is according to the
exis law.

Deviations sometimes occur from the regular sequence.
At the beginning of the 9th century three brothers were
reigning, one after the other in regular succession :
Mahinda III], Aggabodhi VIII, Dappula Il. Now Mahinda’s
likenamed son was by right heir to the throne, but
Dappula wished to reserve the royal dignity to his own son
(Mhos. 49.84). This was a breach of the law. The you
Mahinda betook himself, full of resentment, to India.
He was afterwards killed by agents of King Senal, the
second son of Dappula (50.4).

11. The education of the princes (rajaputta), and chiefly
of the heir to the throne, included training in sports and
practice of arms as well as mental development. We
are told (Mhus. 64.2 9q.) that the young Prince Parakkama-
bahu was instructed not only in the art of driving the
elephant and in the lore of manipulation of the bow,
the sword and other weapons, but also in dance and
song. Moreover he studied the sacred books of the
Buddhist faith, and the works on politics (niti) as that of
Kofalla (i. e. Kautalya’s Arthaéastra). Grammar (saddattha),
poetry (kaveyya), knowledge of the vocabularies (nighandu)
and of the ritual (kefubha) were also objects of his educa-

Google
THE MEDIAEVAL CULTURE OF CEYLON 103

tion. This system is in conformity with the ideal of
princely education in India. We do not know, however,
whether or not it was applied in full measure to Parakkama-
bahu. But the compiler of the chronicle who was well-
versed in Indian literature wishes to adorn his favourite
hero with all the virtues of a prominent king.

12. The title of the royal princes was adipada, that is
one who hae the first post, who marches in front. It is
remarkable that the title is not met with in the old Maha-
vamsa nor in the most modern portions of the chronicle
after chapter 79. It is confined to the part compiled
by Dhammakitti and it therefore belongs to the mediaeval
period exclusively. The word first occurs in the 6th cent.
Silakala (Mhos. 41. 33-35) bestowed the rank of ddipada
on his eldest son Moggal and handed over to him
the Eastern Province (piratthimadesa). It seems that
at this time ddipdda was the same as heir to the throne.
But already under Udaya | (792-97 A.C.), probably even
earlier, all the royal were called adipada (49.3) and
the title frequently is joined to the name, like Udayo
Adipado, Kittaggabodhiti adipado (‘Prince Udaya’, ‘Prince
Kittaggabodhi’, etc.) (50. 8, 51. 94). Kitti, afterwards King
Vijayabahu I, in his fifteenth year girt on his sword and
demanded the title of ddipada (57.61), thereby laying claim
to the succession.

Now to make a distinction, the presumptive heir to the
throne among the royal princes is styled Mahadipdda.
The first prince who is called so in the chronicle is
Ratanadatha (Mhos. 44. 136), the sister's son of Dathopatissa
who belonged to a collateral line. He is probably
identical with Hatthadatha who afterwards became king
(45. 21) and publicly took the name Dathopatisea It,
(650-58 A. C.). Later on Mahinda, the next younger
brother of King Sena I (831-51 A.C.) is styled mahadi-
pada, and after his suicide in war (50. 21-23), and after
the death of the next brother Kassapa (50. 46), the title
Passes to the youngest brother Udaya (50. 44). But he
too died from illness, and as neither the king nor Mahinda

Google
104 WILH. GEIGER

had a son, Sena, the son of Kassapa, was Mahadipada and
ascended the throne (50. 49, 51.1), after his uncle's decease,
as Sena Il.

The titles ddipada or mahddipada drop with the abhiseka
(Mhos. 58.7). Vijayabahu is called mahddipada but king in
the next verse. We have to assume that between the
events narrated in v. 7 (first conquest of the Colas)
and those told from v. 8 onwards (message to Ramajifia)
the abhiseka had taken place. This was his first coronation;
the feast described in Mhos. 59.8 (see above 5) was
apparently his second abhiseka after the definitive con-
quest of the Colas.

13. As heir to the throne the Mahddipada is also called
Yuvardja, the young king. Both the titles alternate.
Mahinda, the brother of King Sena I, is namad Yuvardja in
Mhps. 50.7 and mahadipada in 50.10 from the second half of
the 6th cent. onwards, the Southern Province (dakkhinadesa)
was the Yuvaraja's province and residence, that is (vide Co-
drington, JRAS. Ceylon Br. no. 75, 1922, p. 63 9q.) the whole
country between the Kala Cya in the North and the Kalu-
ganga in the South, and between the central mountains
in the East and the sea-coast in the West, corresponding
in the main to the present West and North-West provinces.
King Silakala (524-537 A.C.) handed over the Eastern’
Province (puratthimadesa) to the yuvai Aggabodhi |
(568-601 A.C.) was the first who conferred the Southern
Province on his brother the ddipada Dathapabhuti who was
his presumptive successor (41.33; 42.8). Dathapabhuti's
death is related in 42.37. As the king had no other brother
nor a legitimate son, he now conferred the dignity of Maba-
dipada and Yuvaraja, no doubt along with the Southern
Province, on his nephew Aggabodhi who afterwards became
his successor. Dakkhinadesa was the Yuvari
for many centuries (cf. Mhus. 50. 44, 49; 51.19, etc.).
Parakkamabahu himself was residing there before ascending
the throne in Pulatthinagara.

We must, however, notice the fact that a prince did
not become Mahadipada or Yuvardja simply by right, but

Google
THE MEDIAEVAL CULTURE OF CEYLON 105

he was invested with the dignity by the king in a solemn
manner. The expressions in the chronicles are ‘‘the king
gave the Adipdda so and so the post of Mahadipada or
Yuvardja, made him M. or Y., and the like" (mahadipadattam
dato or yuvardjatte thapesi, ak@ yuvarajam, etc.) We learn
from Mbus. 67.91 that the dignity of the heir-apparent was
marked by a frontlet which was put on probably in a
festival ceremony which took place after the king's abhiseka.

14. Another princely title is Upardja ‘sub-king’ ‘co-
regent’; the dignity of an upardja is oparajja, uparajja. The
title has an interesting history. The word is much older than
yuvaraja. It frequently occurs in the canonical Pali literature,
and also in the most ancient portion of the Mahavamsa.
Generally the eldest son of a king is upardja (Anguttara
Nikaya Ill, 154°), the uparaja is the heir to the throne.
Vijaya is said to be the eldest son and upardja of king
Sihabahu (Mhos. 6.38); Panduvasudeva, the second king of
Ceylon makes his eldest son Abhaya uparaja (9.12, 14).
The first instance of the peculiar law of succession in
Ceylon is met with at the time of Devanampiyatissa,
(3rd cent. B.C.). His upardja is his next younger brother
Mahanaga (14.56) who afterwards sought refuge in Rohana
from the ambuscades of the queen who coveted the
kingship for her own son. The queen did not carry her
point. Devanampiyatissa was succeeded by his brothers.

A. We pass now to the mediaeval times in Ceylon.
The word upardja first occurs here in the 6th century (Mhvs.
41.70,93). The Moriya king Mahanaga (556-554) made
his cousin (matulaputta, son of the mother's brother)
Aggabodhi uparaja. He was however not the heir-appar-
ent, but the sister's son became his successor (42.4) who
bore like the cousin the name Aggabodhi. King Aggabodhi
I himeelf, who (after an interregnum?) ascended the
throne in the year 568, conferred the dignity of uparaja on
his mother’s brother, that of yuvaraja on his younger
brother (42.6). We clearly see that in the oldest
mediaeval period when the term yuvardja came into use
there was a difference between his position and that of

3

Google
106 WILH. GEIGER

the uparaja. The yuvardja wes the heir to the throne,
the dignity of the upardja is a position of trust. He was
the king’s first counsellor.

B. But soon, at least already in the 7th century, a new
custom was established in a period of great political
troubles. The dignity of uparaja is now regularly con-
ferred on the yuvardja or mahddipdda. Thus the ancient
custom is adapted to the Sinhalese law of succession. The
heir-apparent, not the eldest son exclusively, becomes
uparaja. The investiture is a solemn act ; the king himeelf
consecrates the upardja consecrates the queen. The
phraseology is now oparajje ‘bhisecayi and the like (Mhvs.
44, 84; 48. 42, 69; 51. 7, 12), whilst in the former period the
chronicler had used the expression, to make uparaja or to
place in the upardja's position (41 . 93; 42.6). King Aggabodhi
Ill (626-641) consecrates his younger brother as uparaja
(44.84); he is afterwards (44.123) called yuvaraja. We hear
in 46. 40 that after Aggabodhi IV's death (674 A.C.) an
usurper seized the person of the uparaja Dathasiva and had
him thrown into prison, Apparently the uparaia wa
the legitimate heir to the throne, that is the yuvardja.
Aggabodhi VII (766-772) consecrates as upardja his son
Mahinda (48.69) ; he is called yuvardja in v. 75. In a
similar manner in the 9th cent. the nephew of Sena I
is given the title mahadipdda (50. 49; 51.1) and upardja
(50. 58, 59), and Sena II's brother Mahinda the title
yuvardja (51.13,15,53) and upardja (51. 7, 94).

C, The result of the evolution is that the titles yuvardja
and upardja became nearly synonymous, and inthe 10th
cent. they simply alternate like the surnames Silamegha-
vanna and Sirisamghabodhi. We have the following
uninterrupted sequence :

yacaraja Deppula Ill makes  Dappula IV upardja (53:1).

uparsja Dappula IV ,, Udaya Il yuvaraja (53-4),
wuvardja Udaya = lt, Sena UL eparaja (53-13).
upardja Sena mt Udaya IV yavaraja (53:28).

yuoarsja Udaya IV Sena IV aperdja (53-39).
upargja Sena Vv Mahinda IV yuvaraja (54-1).
(wavardja) Mahinda IV Sona V

‘epardja

" ‘spardja).
Sena vo Udaya ... yuvardja (54-58),

Google
THE MEDIAEVAL CULTURE OF CEYLON 107

Now the sequence is interrupted. Udaya becomes king
and assumes the name Mahinda (V). But he is conquered by
the Colas and sent as prisoner to India. His son Kassapa
who would kave been upardja reigned twelve years under
the title of Vikkamabahu I. But after his premature death
(1041 A.C.) new troubles began and a series of irregular
successions and usurpations was followed up to Vija-
yabahu I, who ascended the throne in the year 1059 A.C.

D. In later times only traces exist of the former use of
the title upardja. Vijayabahu | was yuvaraja (Mhos. 58.1);
he appointed as upardja his next younger brother Virabahu
and after his death the second brother Jayabahu (59.11;
60.86-88). But Jayabahu is called (61.3) yuvaraja, and Mai
bharana pretends to the position of upargia (61.4) and is
called mahddipada. After Jayabahu's decease the king-
dom becomes disunited. The northern portion of Ceylon
is ruled by Vijayabahu's son Vikkamabahu and subsequently
by his grandson Gajabahu. Dakkhinadesa and Rohaya
are in possession of rabahu's nephews, the three
brothers Manabharapa, Kittisirimegha and Sirivallabha.
They too call themselves kings. The terms yuvardja, uparaja,
mahadipada become disused. Prince Parakkamabahu
is styled kumdra and afterwards ‘king’ when he has got the
sovereignty in Dakkhinadesa and later on in the whole of
Ceylon. Strange enough in the 18th cent. the two brothers
of King Kittisirirajasia are both called uparaja (99.85, 124).
The title had apparently lost in worth.

15. The last title we have to discuss is malayardja.
Malaya was the name of the mountainous country in the
centre of the island between Rajarattha and the provinces
depending thereon in the North and Dakkhinadesa and
Rohana in the South. We might assume, therefore, that
the malayardja was the governor of this province. It
seems, however, that this was not always the case.
King Silakala conferred the title of malayardja on his
second son Dathapabhuti, but gave him the province of
Dakkhinadesa (Mhvs. 41.35). Aggabodhil (568-601) made
his sister's eon malayaraja (42.6), and Kassapa V (913-923)

Google
108 WILH. GEIGER

his son Siddhattha, born of his consort Rajini who however
was not his mahesi. Siddhattha seems to have actually
reigned over the province (52.68). At the time of
Aggabodhi IV (658-674) a malayaraja Bodhitiesa is
mentioned (46. 29, 30), but we do not know how he was
related to the king's family.

It is indeed doubtful whether or not the title was
confined to royal princes. A change may parhaps have
taken place in process of time. Moggal Ill, who
with the help of a treacherous general dethroned king
Samghatissa in the year 611, conferred the dignity of
malayaraja on his accomplice (44.43). But Moggallana
was a usurper and his action perhaps unlawful. However
at the time of King Sena Ill (937-945 A.C.) the
malayaraja Aggabodhi is called amacca, minister, not
prince (53.36). Parakkamabahu's malayaraja was the Com-
mander of the Damila mercenaries in the district Rattakara
of Dakkhinadesa (69.6), and the malayardyara also
mentioned as a general in the war with Gajabahu (70.62,155).

16. I have to add a few words about the princely titles
occurring in the mediaeval Sinhalese inscriptions. It is
strange that the title upardja is never met with. The
king is generally called maharaj, *rad; to adipada,
prince, corresponds apa, to mahadipada (or mahapéda),
prince royal, mahapa or mapa. Instead of mahddipada
frequently apa mahayd is used. Deppula IV and Mahinda
IV (10th cent.) had this title ere they ascended the throne
(Ep. Z. 1. 25°, 9la?, 221°). The word mahaya is hardly
the same as mahddipada (Ep. Z. II1.82), though in an
inscription of Mahinda IV ayipaya maha-paya is used for
Gpa mahaya, (Ep. Z. 1. 234*) and in Ep. Z. Il. 114 C apa
mahapa. As Gpa shows the p is preserved in the joint of
the compound, and mahaya seems to be the nominal
form of the adj. maha and to mean the great man (Cf.
Wickremasinghe, Ep. Z. I. 26, n. 4). Uda, i. ¢., Udaya Ill
(Il) is (Ep. Z. 1. 186) the son of Mihind mahaya, because
Mahinda was legitimate heir-apparent of Sena Il (851-885
A.C.) but died before the king. Udaya himself is also

Google
THE MEDIAEVAL CULTURE OF CEYLON 109

called mahaya, because he was heir to the throne, before
he became king after Dappula IV (V) but his son Kitagbo
ie merely titled apa, Cf. 4. s. f.

The title yuvaraja (yuva-rad) is identical with mahayd.
Udaya Ill is dpa yuvarad immediately after his birth. The
pl used in the Puliyankulam inscription (Ep. Z. 1. 186°)
dund sdnahi me apa yuvarad biseo tana péimdnd ‘having
attained to the position of a prince heir-apparent in the
moment of his birth’ corresponds to the phrase (Ep. Z. I.
91 A) in the Mihintale tablets where Mahinda IV is called
pa mahaya. The expression juvaraj occurs also in the same
connection in an inscription of King Kassapa V (Ep. Z.)
1.46‘).

The title malayardja does not occur in the inscriptions.

17. Princesses wear the title rajini. This implies a lower
dignity than the title devi which is due to the consort
of a king. Mitta, the sister of Vijayabahu and consort of
Panduraj called rajini (Mhus. 59.41, 62.1), but her grand-
daughter Mitta, the daughter of Manabharana and later on
consort of her cousin who was also named Manabhar: is
styled devi (64. 19), for her father and his brothers claimed
the royal dignity. The younger harana, Mitta’s
husband, is always styled king. It is remarkable that Udaya
1 conferred the title rajini on his daughters (Mhos. 49.3). From
this time onwards the difference of the titles rajini and
devi seems to have been established. King Sena | (831-851
A.D.) assigned the rank of rajini to Samgha, the daughter
of Kittaggabodhi, the ruler of Rohana, acknowledging
her thereby as royal princess (50. 58). Mahinda IV made
his eon Gdipdda and his daughter : thus the Ruler
founded the royal house of the Sihalas (54. 11). The
princess Yasodharé, the daughter of Vi bahu |, was
made rajini by her father (60.83-84). It ie of interest to
learn that the princesses did not receive the title by birth
but in a solemn ceremony performed by the king.

18. The law regulating the succession was based, as
I said in paragraph 10, on paternal relationship. But we
have also seen in paragraph 3 that in mediaeval Ceylon

Google
no WILH. GEIGER

the patriarchal system was sometimes crossed by remains
of an older matriarchaliem. This fact is also observable
in the part which the sister's son, the bhdgineyya, plays
in the family circle. He has always a prominent position.
Dappula Il (Ill) (9th cent.) gives sister's son Kittagga-
bod! daughter Deva to wife, and Kittaggabodhi be-
comes ruler of Rohana (Mhos. 49. 71). King Vikkamabahu
Il, after having heard that his sister Ratanavali has
borne to Manabharana a son with most auspicious signs,
wishes to educate the young prince Parakkamabahu at
his court, because he regards him as superior to his own
eon Gajabahu but Manabharana refuses to send the boy
to Pulatthinagara (62. 54 q.). Parakkamabahu II (1153-1186)
made sister's son Virabahu Commander of the
Sinhalese army to conquer the Javakas who had invaded
the island, and after his victory Virabahu was always
put on a footing of equality with the kit own sons (83. 41
0q , 87.15 9q., 39 0q., 88. 5 2q.). It was the custom, I think,
that whenever no heir existed according to the regular
law of succession, the bhdgineyya had the title to the
mahadipada dignity. Thus Aggabodhi | is succeeded
in the year 601 by his sister's von Aggabodhi II. His
younger brother Dathapabhuti who formerly was
yuvardja had died before the king (Mhvs. 42.37).
Dathopatissa I's presumptive successor was his sister's son
Hatthadatha (44.154) who indeed later on (650 A. C.)
ascended the throne and took the name Dathopatissa
(45. 21-22), Kaseapa II (641-650 A.C.) had many eons,
but they were children without much sense (bald vigata-
buddhino. 45. 6). He therefore sent for his clever
bhagineyya Mana who wat in Rohana and trans-
ferred to him the whole Government. After his death
Mana crowned his father Dappula (45. 16). We understand
the conflict between the descendants of Vijayabahu |
best a conflict between the patriarchal and the
matriarchal systems. The three brothers Mi
Kit imegha and Sirivallabhas were Vi
-yya, the sons of his sister After the king's

Google
THE MEDIAEVAL CULTURE OF CEYLON mt

death they did not object to the succession of his younger
brother Jayabahu who actually a puppet king.
But after him and before Vijayabahu's son Vikkamabahu,
, before the next generation, they claimed the kingship
for themselves by appointing Manabharana to the dignity of
upargja. Vikkamabahu however frustrated their plans by
occupying the capital Pulatthinagara and defeating the
brothers in battle (Mhve. 61. 1 2q.). We know that finally the
collateral line of the bhagineyyas came to the throne with
Parakkamabahu, Manabharana’s son, the greatest king of
mediaeval Ceylon.

To be continued

Google
Veda and Avesta

By Dr. Batakrishna Ghosh
i

‘The various branches of the original Indo-European
gave rise to numerous independent dialects already in
prehistoric times, But all of these branches are not
equally autonomous from the view point of comparative
grammar, for almost each of them has special relations
either with the original Indo-European or with other Indo-
European dialects. It is quite certain that the various
Indo-European tribes branched off from the original stock
at different times. Some linguists are inclined to believe
that the forefathers of the Hittites were the first to branch
off from the original stock, or rather that Hittite and the
original Indo-European are branches of a still older
Grundsprache. According to this view Hittite would not
be a sister dialect of Sanskrit and Greek but an aunt to
them. The other Indo-European dialects known to us
may be regarded as sisters of the same parentage, but a
few pairs of twins can be clearly distinguished among
these sister dialects, Thus the Italic and the Celtic
branches represent one pair of such twine just as the
Baltic and Slavic branches represent another. These pairs
have not only retained all the essential features of the
original Indo-European but each of them is further
characterised by a series of special common linguistic inno-
vations. It is these special common linguistic innovations
unknown to the original Indo-European which reveal the
twinship of particular pairs of Indo-European dialects.
The particular pair of twins with which we are concern-
ed in the present paper is that constituted by the Indic
and the Iranian branches of the original Indo-European.

Google
‘VEDA AND AVESTA 3

The explanation of common linguistic innovations in
two particular Indo-European dialects is quite obvious.
‘We have to assume that the original speakers of these
languages used to live together for sometime even after
they had detached themselves from the main body of Indo-
Europeans, and, what is more, that they used to speak one
language during that period. Thus it is universally recog-
nised that there was a time when the forefathers of the
Iranians and the Vedic Aryans used to live together and
speak a common language. That they lived together for
a pretty longtime and were members of the same society
is conclusively proved by the remarkable cultural affini-
ties between these two peoples, which cannot fail to
strike any one who has ever looked into the Veda and
the Avesta, The important religious reformation intro-
duced by Zoroaster lent a highly spiritual aspect to the
old Iranian religion, but still the substratum of an older
culture, almost identical with that of the Veda, is un-
mistakable in the Avesta, and, what is more, both the
Veda and the Avesta seem to breathe the same spirit.

Even more striking, if possible, are the linguistic affini-
ties between the older literatures of India and Iran. It has
been often said—and it is hardly an exaggeration—that
the Avestan language stands closer to Vedic than the
classical Sanskrit of Kalidasa. The difference between
Avestan and Vedic is in fact not greater than that between
some of the Greek dialects known from inscriptions and
the structures of the two languages are so similar that an
Avestan sentence can often be translated into Vedic
simply by applying to each word the phonetic laws of
Vedic. Thus the Avesta passage Y. 10. 8:

yd yoga pugram taurunam haomam vanduéta maiyd

fra dbyd tanubyd haomé visaité baéiazai
is equivalent to Vedic:

y6 ydtha putrém térunam sémam vdndeta mdrtyah

pré abhyas tanibhyah sémo visate bhesajdya.

Here only in the last word do we find a difference of
form, in all other cases the difference is merely phonologi-
4

Google
i) BATAKRISHNA GHOSH

cal. A more eloquent proof of the close relationship
between the two languages can hardly be imagined. Yet
it is not enough to convince the linguists of any special
relation existing between Vedic and Avestan. They will
argue that the apparent similarity may be simply due to the
fact that both these languages are known from a very early
date when they had not yet had enough time to change
much from their original Indo-European prototype. In
fact so long as the apparent similarity consists merely in
the retention of the characteristic features of the Grund-
sprache it cannot prove any special affinity between any two
Indo-European dialects. Only a series of common linguistic
innovations can prove this, But there is no dearth of such
innovations in Vedic and Avestan,

In the field of phonology the most important common
innovation between these two languages is certainly the
obliteration of all distinctions between the three original a-
vowels 2,§ and d. In the place of these three distinct
vowels in Greek we find only 4 in Sanskrit and Iranian,
which shows that this far-reaching change in the Indo-
European vowel-system had taken place already in the
common Indo-Iranian dialect spoken by the common fore-
fathers of the Vedic Aryans and the Iranians. Thus Gr.
ept péte-tai, but Skt. dpi pata-ti and Av. aipi a-pata-t; Gr.
ésse pésis, but Skt. aksi pati and Av. ai paigy-. Indo-
European d of course has remained unchanged in all the
three languages, cf. Gr. dkmén, Skt, déman and Av.
asman. From the extensive use of the vowel d in Indo-
Iranian it was thought at first that Sanskrit and
Avestan have preserved the old state of things and that this
original vowel was split up into 3, 8 and din Greek etc. at
@ comparatively later date. But this view had to be gradu-
ally given up, for it was observed that although to all
appearance @ is a perfectly homogeneous vowel in Indo-
Iranian, the behaviour of the gutturals preceding it is by no
means 80 simple in these languages. In fact before every
a for which Greek etc. show an ¢, the Indo-European
gutturals assume a palatalised form in Indo-Iranian

Google
VEDA AND AVESTA us

and in the satom dialects in general, thus Gr. te (<*q¥e),
Lat, que but Skt. and Av. ca. Now as this palatalisation
is otherwise known in Indo-Iranian only before i or y (cf.
Skt, Sjiyas but ugré, Av. draojitta superlative of draoga) it
had to be assumed that the Indo-Iranian palotalising a
must have had an i-timbre originally, in other words,
that it was originally ane. Once it was thus conclusively
proved that Greek has preserved the Indo-European vowel-
system more faithfully than Sanskrit by distinguishing
between a and ¢, there was already a strong presumption
also in the case of o that this vowel too had once enjoyed a
separate existence in Indo-Iranian. No direct proof can
be brought forward to prove this asin the case of e, but
here too the a-vowels which have to be traced back to
Indo-European o show peculiar ablaut forms quite un-
known to those corresponding to Indo-European e or a.
In certain particular cases a peculiar alternance between a
@ is observed in Sanskrit, the shorter vowel appearing
before a consonant group and the longer one appearing
before a simple consonant. If in analogous cases ¢ o (out
of older ai au respectively) appears before 8 consonant, its
place is taken by dy dv before a vowel. Analogy with the
alternance a: d is quite complete here, for we have to re-
member that the second element of adiphthong may take
up the function of a consonant. Thus, for instance, in the
8 sg. perf. act. da-ddrs-a but ja-jan-a (alternance a: 4), ci-
két-a but ji-gdy-a (alternance e: dy), ju-j6s-a but su-sdv-a
(alternance 0: dv). Now, the corresponding forms in other
Indo-European dialects show that in these cases a: dis
derived from I,-E, 0; e: dy from I.-E. oi; and o: dv from
I. -E. ou; cf, Gr. dé-dork-e, lé-loip-e, eilé-louth-e. The
strangely behaving 4, which in certain particular cases
shows a short form before a consonant group and
a long form before a simple consonant is therefore
derived frem I,-E. 0, as distinct from I,-E. ¢ ora, This
differential behaviour of a-vowels derived from I.-E.o
shows that there wasa time when they were still quali-
tatively different from the other a-vowels in the common

Google
6 BATAKRISHNA GHOSH

Indo-Iranian Ursprache, It is therefore quite a legiti-
mate and natural assumption that in its earlier stage the
Indo-Iranian Urspraohe still retained the old I.-E, vowel
o which only later changed into a and thus coincided with
I.-E, e and a, Yet noa priori reason can be shown why
particularly the vowels derived from I.-E. o should vary
in quantity in particular positions, Bragmann attempted
to prove that the alternance a: 4 is the normal Indo-Iranian
representative of the Indo-European alternancee: o in
open syllable; of. Gr. patéres a-pétores: Skt. pitéras
tvdt-pitaras (“having you as father”), Gr. dkmon.a:
Skt. éfman-am asman-am. But Brugmann himself
was compelled to give up his theory in view of numerous
exceptions, of., for example, Gr. génos: Skt. jéna, Gr.
homés: Skt. samé, According to Brugmann’s Law, the
Skt. forms should have been *jana and *sdma respectively.

‘We have seen that Indo-Iranian 4 corresponds to I. -E.
&, 8 and 4. But there is an apparent exception to this rule,
and this exception is again a notable common linguist
innovation of Sanskrit and Avestan. Ordinarily Indo-
Iranian d corresponds to the I, -E, short vowels %, 5, a; but
for those %, 6,4 in Greek, which stand in ablaut relation
with 2, 6, @ respectively, Sanskrit and Avesta show not
a but ¢, To render the picture still more complicated,
the homogeneous vowel d, which might be expected in
Indo-Iranian, appears in every other Indo-European
dialect! and corresponds there to Indo-Iranian ¢ and
Greek &, 5 or das the case may be. Thus the short é in Gr.
e-té-than (<*e-thé-thén through dissimiletion of aspirates)
stands in evident ablaut relation with the long é in Gr.
tf-thé-mi (original Indo-European root dhé-). But the
weak grade form of the same root shows an i in Sanskrit
hité and anain Lat. fa-c-io. Similarly the weak grade

form of the Indo-European root dé- shows an 3 in Greek

1 In the shape of the regular phoentic equivalent of I-E. @ in the
dialect concerned. Thus jn Slavic an o corresponds to this Indo-Iranian i
for every I-E, a had become o in Slavic at a very early period.

Google
VEDA AND AVESTA 7

(cf. e-dé-thén as opposed fo the full grade form in di-d6-ms)
but again ¢ and & in Sanskrit (cf, d-di-thds) and Latin
(ct. da-tus) respectively. It is still 9 disputed point
whether this Greek alternance 2: € and 5: 6 is normal and
phonetic or is based on analogy with the alternance
‘as observed in std-sis: hf-std~mi(Doric) from st(h)é-,
whose weak grade form shows i and a in Sanskrit and
Latin respectively (cf. Skt. sthi-td, Lat. std-tus); but most
linguists are now inclined to believe that the variety of
sounds appearing in Greek has preserved something old
and original which has escaped the other languages,
striving for uniformity in one form or other,—in the form
of ¢ in Indo-Iranian, and elsewhere in the form of a. Now
it is almost universally accepted that the original I.-E.
sound to which an i corresponds in Indo-Iranian and an &
elsewhere (always excepting Greek which may have also
@and 3), was a weak and indeterminate vowel,—in fact
a weak grade ablaut form of either of the three long
vowels 6, & and 4, Short root vowels generally dis-
appear altogether and short diphthongs forfeit their first
components in weak grade form, but long vowels
always leave something behind in similar cases even
though it be a weak and hardly articulate vowel. In
the technical terminology of linguistics this weak vowel
is called schwa indogermanicum' and is transcribed by an
inverted 2. Now this @ has normally given rise to iin
Indo-Iranian but coincided with I. -E-. 4 in all the other
dialects excepting Greek, But if it is accepted that
the multiplicity of forms in Greek is not due to later
analogical influence of the alternance d:4 but an authentic
relic of the Indo-European Grundsprache, it has to be
admitted that however feebly this schwa ind, might have
been pronounced it still succeeded in preserving its original
timbre in each case, Thus the evidence of Greek would

1 The word ‘schwa’ is taken from Hebrew grammatical literature,
where it designates a similar weak wowel.

Google
8 BATAKRISHNA GHOSH

seem to suggest that when derived from é the schwa indo-
germanioum had an e-timbre, when from 6 an o-timbre
and when from 4 an atimbre. The apparent
anomaly that sometimes to a Greek 54 ani and
not the usual a corresponds in Indo-Iranian (of. Skt.
pité, O. Pers. pita: Gr. patér) can therefore be fully
explained. For we have seen that the vowel in question
was originally none of the three ones for which an a
may be usually expected in Indo-Iranian,’ but a sound
of quite a different character so feebly pronounced
that its exact vowel timbre in each case was completely lost
in all the languages excepting perhaps in Greek.

The ablaut 4: 9 however naturally appears to be too
violent, It seems unlikely that the long vowel a would
be reduced to mere @ when the accent is shifted. One
would be tempted to believe a priori that a reduced vowel
4 has to be postulated as the intermediary step between
Gand 9, so that the whole ablaut series would be 4: In
fact in Skt, we do find traces of of this short d alternating
on the one hand with d and on the other with 9 (> 1), cf.
ra-:rd-tna: ari(?). This and a few other similar cases
of alternance between d and @ have given rise to the
belief that the I.-E. sporadically appears as a in
Sanskrit. It would be more accurate however to take
this a as the intermediate reduced step between d and 9.
Hirt is inclined to believe that such an intermediate
reduced step has to be postulated also in the case of
ablaut a: 0 (zero). In other words, in his opinion, even
a short vowel cannot disappear altogether in the first
instance without leaving some trace behind,—an inter-
mediary reduced vowel step has to be postulated also in
this case, Hirt would thus postulate the ablaut series a:
‘¢: O (zero). The existence of such a series cannot be
proved by means of examples out of Sanskrit, but
certain instances of vowel alternance in Greek suggest

1 Yet IE, 9 regularly becomes a in Indo-lranian before j; ef. Skt.
dhéya.ti <*dhog ei,

Google
VEDA AND AVESTA 9

that Hirt’s series is quite plausible. Thus at the side of
the normal grade form bél-os we have the nil grade from
bl-énai. But whence comes the aorist form bal-ein?
Here it is quite clear that the radical vowel was not alto-
gether lost,—it is here the vehicle of a distinct syllable
(ba-lein). Hirt therefore suggests that here we are con-
fronted with the intermediary reduced vowel ¢ between
a and O (zero).

In the treatment of the semi-vowels ¢ and y the
languages of the Veda and the Avesta differ from all
other Indo-European dialects in one respect: in the
earliest stage of both these languages { before i and w
before u seem to have been dropped even though the
result was a hiatus. Sanskrit éréstha has its exact
counterpart in Av. sraeita. But it isto be noted that in
the RV. éréstha is often trieyllabic and the allied froms
clearly show that the stem is Jray-. It is therefore
quite clear that the original form of éréstha was either
“éréy-istha or “érd-istha (with hiatus), The disyllabic
form sréstha may be obviously derived from *érdy-istha,
in which case it is to be regarded as another case of
Prakritiom in the RV. (as tredhd<trayidhd). But the
corresponding Av. form sraéita excludes this possibility ; it
may be both disyllabic or trisyllabic (see below), but in
neither case can it be derived from *sraj-ista. On the
other hand, in numerous cases in Sanskrit, vowels on
both sides of a hiatus have later given rise to a mono-
phthong (cf. jyéstha <*jyd-istha, déstha <°dé-istha
etc.). Moreover the apparent diphthong ae in sraaita
may be actually taken to be aé with hiatus, for Av.
Jaz, for instance, appears as a variant form of jahi.
All this shows that the Indo-Iranian form from which Skt.
$réstha and Ay, sraéita are directly derived was *sra-istha
with hiatus. In the RV. both the forms revdt and
rayivét are current, But Av. raévat shows that the
former represents the older form derived from Indo-
Iranian *ratvat <*rajivat. In Skt. rayivdt the y was
analogically introduced ata later date.

Google
120 BATAKRISHNA GHOSH

Due to the same phonetic law the verb forms in Skt.
which would normally begin with yi- show an initial i- in
the older language. Thus the desiderative stem of yaj- is
iyaks- in the RV. But in the classical language the
initial y was re-introduced analogically and there the
corresponding stem is yiyaks-, This mode of re-intro-
ducing y is current already in the Brahmanas, for there
the desiderative stem of yam-is yiyams-, and the corres-
ponding form of yabh- is yiyaps-. Yet in certain cases
the older form persisted also in the classical language,
cf, iyaja (perfect) from yaj-, In all the cases of desidera-
tive mentioned above, thei of the reduplication syllable
ie at least of Indo-Iranian antiquity as we shall see below,
but from the extant Avestan texts no form can be quoted
which would prove a similar loss of initial y before i.
The sound combination yi in medial position is not
altogether rare in Skt., cf. dpayi (aor. pass. of pa-), ajdyi
(loc. ag. of ajé), etc, But all these forms are later analogy
formations.

The similar disappearance of v before u is not exactly
comparable with the phenomenon discussed above, firstly
because there is no sure Avestan example which would
prove the validity of this law also for old Iranian,
though it is admittedly quite probable, and secondly
because in none of those numerous cases of the loss of v
before u in Skt. is the vowel in question of Indo-European
origin. In fact the combination yu was extremely rare
in the original Indo-Kuropean. In most cases the u in
Skt. which causes the loss of the preceding v is derived
from an Indo-Buropean r-sonane (I-E. ¢ normally

becomes tr in Skt.), of. Skt, ara ‘sheep’: Gr. varén,
Skt. drmi: 0. H.G. walm, etc, This is a peculiar feature
of Skt, alone, for in analogous cases the original initial
v ig regularly retained in Avestan, cf. Skt. dras: Av.
vard, Skt. dena: Av. vardna, otc, In Skt, perfect forms
such as uvdca (:vac-), uvdsa (:vas-), etc. an initial v
has been evidently dropped before u, but this u too is
of properly Indian origin, for in all these forms the

Google
‘VEDA AND AVESTA 121

original reduplication syllable was va- and not *vu- (cf.
vavéca). In analogous cases the reduplication syllable
is invariably vain Avestan (cf. Av. vavaia). No parallel
to these Skt. perfect forms with initial u can therefore be
found in Avestan.

To be continued

Google
The Influx of Indian Sculpture into Fu-nan

By Dr. Ludwig Bachhofer

Among the earliest monuments of Buddhist sculpture
found in Fu-nan, the southern part of Cambodiu, are the
statues of two Buddhas, the torso of a sitting Buddha and
the head of a Buddha discovered in the Vat Romlok,
Prei Krabas, Takev, by M. Groslier.

One of the standing Buddhas, whose head was found
a few years after his body, is a tall aristocratic figure
swaying out in a delicate curve, and appearing almost
naked under his smooth and clinging garments. The
sanghafi covers the whole body and is held a little away
from it by both arms, thus forming a sort of trough.

The body which is slim and graceful carries a noble head
of extraordinarily frank expression, which is due to the open
eyes. This is a rather uncommon feature, for in most
cases the lids are cast down, producing a dreamy, some-
times an almost depressed, air-

The head of this Buddha resembles in every detail
a marble head hailing from the site of Nagarjunikonda
which was presented some years ago to the Musée Guimet
in Paris by Professor Jouveau-Dubreuil. This head, like
the reliefs from this site, dates from the 3rd century A. D.
The date may be assumed as safely established by the
epigraphic records, and by the style of the sculptures
which is evidently related to, but a little more mature
than, the style of Amaravati (2nd century A. D.).”

1 These sculptures are admirably reproduced in Ars Asiatica, XVI,
George Grosligr: Les collections Khméres da Masée Albert Sarraut
& Phnom-Penh, Paris 1931, Pl. 14.

2 J. Ph. Vogel: Prakrit inscriptions from a Buddhist site at
Nagarjunikonda, Ep. Ind., XX, pp. 1 €.

Google
INFLUX OF INDIAN SCULPTURE INTO FU-NAN 13

Although the single head cannot be brought into the
same intimate connection with South Indian prototypes as
the head of this standing Buddha, M. Coedés was certainly
right in pleading for a South Indian descent.

The other standing Buddha is of a heavier build; the
body is accentuated more clearly, the attitude is an
elaborate contraposto so that the silhouette reveals a
livelier movement than that of the other statue. The
drapery leaves the right shoulder and right arm bare,
it is closely drawn to the right side of the body and
hangs down loosely on the left side. The rather heavy
head is bent, and bears an expression of friendly dulness.

Now a good many bronze statuettes of Buddha have
been excavated at Amaravati and at Buddhapad which show
the same arrangement of the clothes, the same gestures,
and often the same carriage."

And when one remembers that in Java, in Suma
Siam, in Annam and even in Celebes bronze and stone
figures have been discovered, some of monumental size,
all of them supposed to be imported from Amaravati, it
seems obvious that this same artistic centre is responsible
for the beginnings of Buddhist sculpture in Fu-nan too.”

Ithink there can be no doubt that the artistic influences
of Amaravati extended far over the seas; but that does
not imply that only her own art was distributed.

1 A. Rea: Excavations at Amardvati. A.S.I.A.R., 1908/9. Robert
Sewell: Some Buddhist bronzes and relics of Buddha. J.R.A.S. 1895,
pp. 6158, Pl. 1-5.
South Djember: ef. W. Cohn: Buddha in der Kunst des
ig 1925, pp. 284.

Sumatra, Scgungtang: Ann, Bibl. of Ind. Arch. for 1931, Pl. 2,
JGIS., 1/1, Pl.

Siam, P’ong Tuk : Journal Siam Soc., XXI, Bangkok 1928, Pl. 17.
Ann. Bibl. of Ind. Arch. for 1927, Pl. viii/e.

Dong-Duong : Coomaraswamy : Geschichte der ind. and indones.
Kanet, Abb. 342.

Celebes, West coast: Tijdschrift Batavioasch Genootschep,
1933, pp. 4954.

Google
14 LUDWIG BACHHOFER

One strange trait of Indian sculpture, as far as Buddhist
subject-matter is concerned, enables the archaeologist
to trace certain representations back to their origins.
1 mean the fact that Northern, Western and Southern
India represent the Buddha in different attitudes and
differently clad. Northern India gives the sitting Buddha
with legs interlocked (vajrdsana). After the invasion of
Gandharan forms, i.e¢., from about 100 A.D., Mathura
clothes her Buddhas in sanghafis reaching up to the neck,
and tries to reproduce the North-Western drapery by
long parallel curves, mostly incised in the stone.’ At
this stage the Buddha image was passed on from Mathura.
to Amaravati. But the Indian taste was not contented,
for it had its own view as to what an ideal Buddha
should look like; very soon the clothes were stripped
from his right shoulder and arm, and at the same time
the heavy hem of the garment was drawn across the
legs and thrown over the extended left fore-arm. This
change took place in Mathura already, but it seems
significant that there only one statue of Maitreya shows
the new fashion, whereas the Buddha continues to be
presented with covered shoulders and arms. It was in
Amaravati that the new mode met with unchecked
approval and gave birth to the well-known type of South
Indian Buddha.

This happened during the 2nd century A. D., probably
shortly before or about 150 A.D. After this date a free-
standing Buddha in South India invariably has his right
shoulder and arm bare, and carries his sanghafi in the
manner described above. The figure holds itself stiffly erect,
without any bend in the hips.

South India and Ceylon did not abandon this type for
centuries, as is proved by the bronzes from Dong-Duong

1 Thedate 129 A.D., given in L. Bachhofer : Early Indian Sculptare,
Paris 1929, I, pp. 103f, has to be corrected into 100 A.D. Detailed reasons
in my paper on Die Anflinge der buddhistischen Plastik in China, Ott
Zeit., NF., X. 1934, p. 8.

Google
INFLUX OF INDIAN SCULPTURE INTO FU-NAN 125

and South Djember which date from the 4th-5th and 5th-6th
centuries A. D. respectively.

Though those fine works of South Indian toreutics were
discovered in Further India, thus testifying to an ancient
trade between those countries and the Vengi, | wish to
emphasise the fact that the style, the attitudes and the
costume of both the standing Buddhas from V&t Romlok do
not coincide with those of the South Indian type. True,
apart from the size and the material, one of them, the
second one described, is identical with a small bronze
from Buddhapi But here the question is raised whether
this and other statuettes from Buddhapad and Amaravati
were South Indian or not.

They are not; their gracefully swinging bodies, with
their thin, smooth draperies, with bare right shoulder and
arm are not the ideal of Southern, but of Western India
where this very type dominates the caves of Ajanta and
Kanheri. It may be that those specimens are comparatively
late, dating from about the middle of the 6th century A. D.
but the statuettes from Buddhapad, Amaravati and some
other sites not only show the same features, but show them
in a decidedly earlier style. To assign them to the 4th
century A. D. might not be very far off the mark.

The presence of a considerable number of Buddhas
of the Western Indian type in the Vengi seems to be due
to the dynasty of the Ikevakus who were probably of Saka
descent, perhaps even related to the “Western Satraps."*
‘Some inscriptions from Nagarjunikonda support this assump-
tion very strongly, and Mr. Sten Konow has come to the
conclusion that some expressions point to Western India."
Moreover, there is a number of reliefs from Nagarjunikonda
which represent Saka warriors in their unmistakably
Central Asian costumes.

To sum up: the sitting Buddha from V&t Romlok is
definitely connected with South India by the paryankasana,

1 Vogel, He. pp. 4, 37, 25. Ann, Bibl. of Ind. Arch. for 1927,
Pl. vi/r; ibid., for 1930, PI. ii/b.

Google
126 LUDWIG BACHHOFER

the head of one of the standing Buddhas is intimately
related to a head from Nagérjunikonda, while another
head must have been influenced by a South Indian model;
the second standing Buddha is identical with a small bronze
Buddha from Buddhapad. There is little doubt that the
influx of all these forms came from the Vengi, even that
of the Western India type, which had become fashion-
able there under the Ikevaku dynasty.

The export of Buddhist sculpture from Vengi overseas
to the East must have started as early as the 2nd century
A. D., for the small bronze Buddha of P’ong Tik and the
enormous stone Buddha of Ségungtang belong to a phase
in the development of South Indian sculpture which ended
about 150 A.D. The models for the statues of Vit Romlok
do not seem to be earlier than the end of the 3rd or more
likely of the 4th century A.D.; they found their way into
Fu-nan under the Ikgvakus who had made South India
acquainted with the type of Western India.

But it was not only Western and South Indian art which
reached Fu-nan, although their influence was predominant
there. The Buddha first described, the one with the head
closely related to the head of Nagarjunikonda, is clad in a
sanghati covering both shoulders. This feature proves at
Teast an acquaintance with Buddha images from North
India, and the total absence of the uma in Vat Romlok
points in the same direction. That there existed a connec-
tion between North India and Siam at least, may be
concluded from the fine standing Buddha from Vat Ro,
Ayudhy&, now in the National Museum in Bangkok, which
would have been impossible without an intimate acquain-
tance with a North India type of rather the 4th than the 5th
century A. D."

It goes without saying that the art of Western and Southern
India was spread to Further India by sea; the geographical

1G. Ceed’s : Less collections archéologiques da Musée Nationale de
Bangkok (Ars Asiatice, Xi), Paris 1928, Pl. i.

Google
INFLUX OF INDIAN SCULPTURE INTO FU-NAN 7

Position of the sites where ‘‘Pre-khmér"’ sculpture has been
found in Cambodia corroborates this view. 1 am inclined
to think the same about the spread of North Indian art, and
that the blending of the various ideas and forms was
effectuated in Fu-nan. But this is only a theory and it
is to be hoped that new finds will throw a clearer light on
these interesting problems.

Google
A Sanskrit Manual of Tsonkhapist Warship

By Dr. E. Obermiller*

The January issue of this Journal contains a most
interesting article by Pandit Vidbushekhara Bhattacharya
“A Sanskrit treatise by a Tibetan author’. We have here
a specimen of those queer literary productions of the Tibetan
and Mongolian Lamas who consider it especially meritorious
to clad their works, originally written in Tibetan, in a
Sanskrit garb, and make attempts to write Sanskrit without
being able to follow the rules of grammar. Mr. Bhattacharya
gives us a critical edition of the quasi-Sanskrit version of the
text, an edition which he has prepared with the greatest care,
being never at a loss to explain the irregular forms and to
amend them in the foot-notes. In the foreword he points to
the contents of the text and remarks that it “deals with the
method of worship well-known in Mahayana Buddhism,
taking refuge (éaranagamana), the production of the thought
of enlightenment (bodhicittotpada),”” etc.

All this is unquestionably right. But, may it be asked,
who is the object of worship in the present case?
This is a matter of no small importance, which, as it
seems to us, has completely escaped the attention of
Mr. Bhattacharya; otherwise he would certainly have made
mention of it in the foreword. We may be permitted to
make here this necessary addition basing our remarks upon
the text in which the person to whom the author addresses
himself is most clearly indicated.

* As we are going through the Press, we learn with extreme regret the
sad news of the pemature death of Dr. Obermiller. By his death the
cause of Buddhist learning has lost one of its most indefatigable and
competent workers and the Greater India Society, along with many other
learned institutions in this country has been deprived of a most
esteemed coadjutor. An obituary notice of the late lamented scholar
will appear in the next number of this Journal :—Ed., J.G.1.S.

Google
A SANSKRIT MANUAL OF TSONKHAPIST WORSHIP — 129

Let us take first of all the sentence at the beginning:
ARATE STATE: |

It is to be translated as: ‘‘the way or method (krama)
of honouring (upacdra) the teacher (guru) who is called the
king, the Lord of Tusita."" Now, who is this teacher? We
read further on (p. 50):
aftrecorer arrer and wits wae: gaffe: 1
“The king of the Doctrine, the omniscient Sumati-
kirtigri."" At once all becomes clear. Sumatikirtiéri
is the Sanskrit equivalent of Lo-bsan-dag-pai-pal
(Blo-bzaii-grags-pahi-dpal)—the proper name of Tson-
kha-pa, the great Tibetan reformer and founder of the
Gelugpa sect. He is called “the Lord of Tugita’’, i.e., of the
Tibetan monastery Gandan or Ganden
(dgah-ldan=Tugita), which was founded by him in 1409 and
became the first centre of the Gelugpa sect. Till the present
day the Head Lama of Gandan is termed “‘the successor to
the golden throne of Tson-kha-pa.” ‘The sons” mentioned
in the following line are the two principal pupils of Tson-
kha-pa, viz. Gyal-tshab Darma Rinchen and Khai-dub
Ge-leg Pal-saii-po (mkhas-grub dGe-lege dPal-bzan-po), the
first two spiritual rulers of Gandan after the teacher's death.

As to the Sanskrit proper name of Tson-kha-pa,—
Sumatikirti or Sumatikirtiéri, it is well-known to the Tibetan
and Mongolian Lamas. A mantra which is engraved over
the doors of one of the temples of the Chilitai Monastery
(Buriat Republic, Transbaikalia) and which drew my atten-
tion during my visit to that place runs:
ait qenwercgafesifafate gg’

But let us proceed further on with the text. On page
53 we read: tery gafeetider (cic!) are Sterarfa(seteaf) |

Here no further investigation is needed. We have it
directly : Stay which is no other than Tsoi-kha-pa with the
| substituted for tsa and the anusvdra for & . It seems
strange that Mr, Bhattacharya has not paid attention to this
place, as well as the preceding epithet Gans-can mkhas-pahi
gtsug-rgyan (correctly sanskritized: himavat-pandita-cada-

6

Google
130 E, OBERMILLER

lamkéra) which is one of the honorific appellations or compli-
mentary names of Teon-kha-pa, indicated by Sarat Chandra
Das in his Dictionary, p. 211.

The fact that the worshipper makes his Mental Effort
or vow for Enlightenment as if in the presence of Teon-kha-
pa must be explained in the sense that, just as the
Bodhisattvas of the Buddhist legends are said to have made
their vows in addressing their prayer to the Buddha of their
time,’ in the same manner the Gelugpa devotee addresses
the founder of his order. the Master or Lord of Gandan
(Tugita). The latter is for him by no means inferior to a
Buddha.”

‘Thus the text edited by Mr. Vidhushekhara Bhattacharya
discloses itself as a manual for worshipping Tson-kha-pa, the
deified guru, the Je-Lama (rje-bla-ma), the object of pious
adoration of millions of Tibetan and Mongolian Buddhists.

1 Cf. Ba-ston, Tranel., Vol. 1, p. 108, etc.
2 The Tibetans give to Teot-kha-pa the title of “'the second Buddba,””
the same which is usually applied to Vasubandhu.

Google
Ten Old-Javanese Copper-plates
from Sidoteka of the Saka year I245.

By Himansu Bhusan Sarkar

Ten copper-plates measuring 14°56” x 4°92” approximately
were found in 1884 and 1885 from Sidotéka in the division
of Mojokerto, Surabaya’. According to Dr. Van Stein
Callenfels* these must have been obtained from a region
in the lower course of the Brantas river. They are depo-
sited at present in the Museum of Batavia where they are
numbered E. 25*. Dr. Brandes gave a cursory notice of these
plates in the Notulen* where he stated that several terms
occurring in these records agree with those of the record
of 1216 Saka, now numbered LXXXI in OJO. The present
series of copper-plates which forms but one inscription does
not mention the proper name of the reigning king but gives
merely his coronation-name, viz., Sri Sundarapandyadewa-
dhigwarandma rajabhigeka wikramottunggadewa. As King
Kytarajasa died® in the year 1309 A. D., this record of 1323
A.D. refers in all probability to his son and successor,
Jayanagara, who has been called Kala Gémét by the writer
of the Pararaton.' This prince is mentioned in the record
of 1294. D.' The coronation-name already appears in
the Blitar inscription of 1314 A. D. from which it would
seem that this title had been in use at least for a decade*.
It is rather strange that Jayanagara should accept a name

OJ0., p. 198,

Feestb. Bat. Gen., Il (1929), p. 377 €.
Notalen, 1884, p. 111 #., 1885, p. 1.
Notalen, 1886, p. 43

TBG., 55, p. 147.

@Vousune

Google
132 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

which signifies his suzerainty over Sundarapandya,
tly the Pandya King of that name in Southern In
Krom’ in his well-known treatise on Indo-Javanese
has questioned the validity of the King’s assuming
title. May I suggest that the title refers to the defeat of King
Jatavarman Sundarapandya II’* who appears to be identical
with Marco Polo's Sendar Bandi ing in 1292 A. D. ¥, and
with Sundar Bandi, who, according to Muslim historians,
died in 1293 A.D. ? The relations of the Pandyas with
Indonesia were not always peaceful. An inscription
of the Pandya King Jetavarman Virapandya, dated 1264
A. D., states that he took the crown and the crowned head
of the king of Javaka."? There is therefore no impro-
bability in the assumption of an antagonism between
the powers of Indonesia and Southern Indi I venture to
suggest that this conflict occurred not long before 1293
A.D., if the date of demise of Sundarapandya as given by
Muslim historians is correct. As Jayanagara did not
probably attain manhood at this time, he was obviously
the nominal head of the Majapahit army against its South
Indian adversaries.

This record contains a list of the high functionaries of
state, some of whom are known from other sources.
Among the foremost ministers we notice the names of
Ranganatha, Kameévara and Viévanatha. There were
several commanders of the army. Of them, Purugeévara,
the commander for Daha, and Halayudha, the commander
for Majapahit, were probably the most important, because,
while the other two generals, viz., Dedes, the commander
for Kapulungan, and Tanu, the commander for Matahun,
are designated simply as Mpu, the former two are explicitly

9 Geschiedenis?, p. 378 ff.
10 For these Pandya rulers, see El., xi, pp. 253-266; JA., xxl,

p. 121 &.
Il Cy, also Cathey and the way thither, Yule’s ed., Vol. 1, p. 220;

Caldwell, Comparative Grammar, Introd., p. 141.
12 JA., ILXX (1922), pp. 48-50; JGIS., I, pp. 19-20.

Google
TEN OLD-JAVANESE COPPER-PLATES FROM SIDOTEKA 133

mentioned as dyah, i.e., princes or members of noble
families. In pl. 4a we read that the King’s authority not
only embraced the whole of the island of Java but also
the eastern islands of Madura and Tafijungpura. Thus
the Majapahit empire of the time of Jayanagara had
extensive relations with lands in the far east and west. This
inscription also throws some side-light on the cultural and
religious history, as well as the industries and amusements
of contemporary Java. We not only hear of the Superinten-
dents of Saivite and Buddhist institutions, but also come
to learn that some of them were highly educated. Different
branches of letters like grammar, logic and Samkhya
philosophy were studied with profit by these spiritual
teachers called dang dcaryas. As regards business-transac-
tions we hear not only of commodities from lands but also of
the products of seas. Of these the production of sugar,
pots, wickerworks, umbrellas, etc., deserves particular
mention. Among the amusements of the Javanese people,
music of Kangsi and gamélan has been mentioned in pl. 8a-
They loved to wear fine clothes and precious jewels, golden
bracelets, nose-rings, etc., while rich dishes catered to their
varied tastes.

This inscription has therefore a great bearing on the
history of ancient J; Just as we have jalasamiha as
the royal seal of Balitung or garudamukha as the seal of
King Airlangga, #0 this record also mentions minadvaya,
i.e., two fishes, as the ldfichana of King Jayanagara,
the record has been transcribed in Brandes-Krom,
Oudjavaansche Oorkonden where it bears no. LXXXiIIl.
I now edit the text from this transcription, adding an original
translation with proper diacritical marks.

Text
1a. Swasti éri Sakawargatita, 1245, marggaéiramasa tithi

paficadaéi éuklapakga, tung, u, ang, wara, krulwut, pir-
wasthagrahacara, adranakeatra, rudradewata, baruna-

Google
14 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

mandala, brahmayoga, wijayamuhirtta, Yamaparwweéa,
wawakarana, mit(h)una raéi, irika diwaéa ny ajfia paduka

Sri mabaraja, rajadhiraja, pa(ra)meéwara, éri wiralanda-
gopala, abhanggarahuttaraya, parinatéraranakarajanya-
mukufakotipuiijapifjarapadarawinda, aéamitaranani-

puiiardjagirascedabhayanaka, wijitaripu._Kuladayita
jalanicaya puramandalargnawa, sakalasujananikarahy-
dayakumuda wikaéaniéakara, akilapratipakeanisandha-
karakgayadiwakera, wiprakeatrobhayakulawiéuddha ri
sundarapandyadewadhiéwarandma rajabhigeka, wi-
b, kramottunggadewa, tinadah de sang mantri katrini,
rakryan mantri hino dyah éri rangganatha, aratibhayang-
kara, rakryan mantri sirikan dyah kameéwara, anindi-
talakeana, rakryan mantri halu, dyah wiéwanatha,
awaryyanujabhima, makapurassara rake tuhan mapatih
ring daha, dyah purupeéwara, ranarikampanakarana
bhujaparakrama, sakeat pranalamratisubaddhakén sthi-
ratara ni palinggih éri maharaja siniwi ring kanakamani-
mayatoranakalpawrkea, samering mwang rake tuban
mapatih ring majhapahit, dyah halayudha, agapita
gunaninditalakeana, umingsor i paratanda rakryan ring
pakirakiran makabehan, rakryan dmung pu samaya,
rananggabhirama, rakryan kanuruhan pw anékakan
samararisenataka, rakrya-
2a. nrangga, pu jalu, rananindyabala, rakryan mapatih
ring ulungan, pu dedes, wiraniwaryya, rakryan
mepatih ring matahun, pu tanu, rapaturasahaya, muang
sang mantri wrddhengitajfié, sang aryya patipati, pu
kapat, paramanindita (_ ) atya, sang aryya wangéaprana,
pu ménur, ranaranggabharai sang aryya rajapara-
krama, mapafiji elam; ni ayanindita, sang aryya
jayapati, pu pamor, atisatyanukilla, sang aryya sundaré-
» pu kapasa, sa(ka)lagrimarurdgaguna, sang
@ryya rajadhikara, pu tanga, satatanayatisikmacin-
tanatandrita, sakeat pinekabahudanda éri maharaja an
satata umalocita ri karakganing sayawadvipamandala,
tan kawuntat sang dharmmadhikarananyayanyayawyaw-
aharawiécedaka, sang pamgét i tirwan, da-

Google
‘TEN OLD JAVANESE COPPER-PLATES FROM SIDOTEKA 135

b. ng dcaryya ragawijaya, mapafji sihasa, nyayawya-
karanaparisamapta, sang pamgét i kandamuhi, dang
acaryya wiéwanatha, mapafji paragata, sangkyaéastra-
parisamapta, sang pamgét i manghuri, dang acaryya
() banatha, nyayawyakaranaparisamapta, sang
pamgét i pamwatan, dang acaryya dharmmaraja,
nydyaéastraparisamapta, sang pamgét i jambi, dang
@caryya  Siwanatha, wyakeranaparisamapta,
dharmmadhyakga ring kaéaiwan, sang pamgét i ranu
kabayan, dang acdryya smaranatha, nyayawyakarana-
parisamapta, dharmmadhyakga ring kasogatan, pungkw
i padélégan, dang acaryya kanakamuni, boddhatarkka-
wyakaranaparisamapta, i pingsor ny ajfia éri mahi
kumonakén irikang wanweng tuha fiaru, muang i
kusambyan, padamlakna sang hyang ajfia ha-

3a, ji praéasti tinanda minadwayalaficana, thani waték
atagan janatosan,( )cihna nikang tuhafiaru muang
kusambyan, an sinuk sima swatantradégringgit, samban-
dha, gati dyah makaradhwaja, manghyang waranugraha
fri maharaja, ri dadyanikang tuhafiaru muang kusam-
byan susukén sima swatantradég ringgit, makaphala
kaswatantrani sawka dyah makaradhwaja, muang ménta-
saknang kulawargga ring tuhafiaru muang kusambyan,
maryyakaparatantra, kadi tingkahnya ring puhun ma-
Jama, kewala sima swatantradég ringgit, mangkana rasa
ni panghyang dyah makaradhwaja i paduka éri
maharaja, phalaphala ning dydabhakti ri éri maharaja
abhimata dyah makaradhwaja, muang ri wruhanikang
sakalaloka ri kadharmmaparayan dyah makeradhwaja,
muang ri tan alangalang pamrih dyah makaradhwaja,
makadada-
b. ha swajiwita kuminkin sthiratara ni palinggih éri
mahéraja_siniwining sayawadwipamandala, —umisi-
lakgapa ning suputra, ikang drdabhakti satata umalocita
ri tanpanasarasangkeng maryyadayukti, kewala tumirwa
kapararthan éri maharaja, sumaphalakna sih éri maha-
raja satatimaramarah ring heyopadeya, ika gati dyah
makaradhwaja mangkana, matangnyan turun waranu-

Google
136 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

graha éri maharaja api tuwin enak wruh éri mahari
an tuhutuhu kuladipakaanggéh dyah makaradhwaja
putra de éri mahar matangnyan inayubhagya rasa
panghyang dyah makaradhwaja de éri maharaja, maka-
phala wruhanikang sakalajana ri kadharmmestan éri
maharaja, ikang tan wnang tan masih ring uwus
mulahakén dharmmaning sewa-

4a. kottama, muang tan pgat ning kaparshitan inulaha-
kén éri_ mahari an tuhutuhu wignwawatara inadhi-
gthana sang masujana pinratista, irikang rajya i
majhapahit kangkén prasida makapranala rake tuhan
mapatih dyah puruseéwara makapunpun anak ang
sayawadwipamandala, makangéa ikang niga madhura
tafijungpuradi, yatamijilakén ayabyayaning sakalajanan-
satata bhakti mangarccana ri paduka éri maharaja,
muang po dapawwat nikang ndgaparaniga kangkén
pangragaskar gatinyantan kaligan praptangkén prati-
warga, matangyan enak ta pangarccana nikang sewa-
kottama mulahakén kaparahitan muang rumakga tguhan
ing swadharmma kangkén kriya japa samadhi ning
manghyang turun i waranugraha éri mahraja, an prasi-

minadwayalaficana, kmitana ni samasanak ing tuhafiaru
muang kusambyan sinusuk simadég ringgit tan
keparabyapara kadi tingkahnya ring puhun malama,
anghing samasdnak ing tuhafiara muang samasinak
ing kusambyan atah pramina ri ealébak wukimya,
tkeng gaga rénéknya, kunéng parimana ni lmah nikang
tuhafiaru, muang kusambya (n), ring purwwa, asidaktan
muang ika pamulung, mangidul méntas ing lwah,
dudug ing agneya, anuju tugu kulumpang, sapakliran
muang pamulung, muang kawalédan, muang ikang
wadu tngah, mangulwan mluk a.

5a. ngidul angulwan, tkeng dakeina, sapakliran muang
wanu tngah, muwah angulwan mluk, angidul angulwan

Google
‘TEN OLD-JAVANESE COPPER-PLATES FROM SIDOTEKA 137

muwah angulwan amnér tke pinggir ing lwah, sspakliran
muang wanua tngah mangidul atut pinggir ing lwah,
mangulwan atut pinggir ing Iwah, dudug ing nairiti,
sapakliran muang wanua tngah, muang padada, méntas
angalor, sapakliran muang padada, mangalor muwah
tkeng pagcima, sapakliran muang padada, mangetan
mluk angalor aniku lalawa, mangalor amnér dudug ing
bayabya sapakliran muang bana, muang pangeran,
‘mangetan anutug ing uttara, sapakliran muang pangeran,
muwah mangetan dudug ing aiéanya, sapakliran muang
Pangeran muang pamulung, mluk angidul angulwan
mitra, muwah angidul amnér tkeng pirwwa, sapakliran
muang pamulung samangkana

b. hingan i mah nikang tuhafiaru, muang ing kusambyan,
hana ta sawah phalagrama pangrénanikang samaednak
ing tuhafiaru i dyah makaradhwaja, sawah témpah,
|, blah, muwah ikang samasanak ing kusambyan asung
pangréna i dyah makaradhwaja sawah témpah, |, ike
ta katémwa kalilirakna tke dlaha ning dlaha kabhuktya
deni sasantina pratisantina dyah makeradhwaja, tan
kawungkilwungkila de samasanak ing tuhafieru, muang
samasanak ing kusambyan, apan uwus parnnah phala-

rama dyah makaradhwaja, mangkana krama nikang
ima i tuhafiaru, muang kusambyan, kunéng tingkah

kolahulaha de sang prabhu mantry anigata, tke dlaha
ning dlaha, muang tan kaparabyapara de

6a. ning nayaka pratyaya, tan kneng turuturun sagém
sarakut, bwat hajyan agéng admit lakwalakwan adoh
aparé, muang tan katamana deni w
Katrini, Iwi (:)nya, pangkur, tirip, muang pinghe
wahuta rama, lawan sakweh ning mangilala drwyahaj
wuluwulu parawulu agéng admit, _makadi
paramiéra, panghurang, kring, padém,
paranakan, limus galuh, mangrifici, manghuri, parang,
sungka, dhira, pangaruhan, sungging, pangunéngan,
taji, watutajém, sukun luwarak, rakasang, ramanang,
Piningle, katangaran, tapahaji, airhaji, malandang,

7

Google
138 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR.

lea, lablab, kukap, pakuwangi, kutat, tangkil, trépan,
watu walang, salyut, mapiga, pemanikan, sikpan,
rumban, wilang wanwa, wi-
b. jikawah, panggare, tingkis, mawi, manambangi,
tanghiran, tuhadagang, tuhanambi, tuha judi, juru
gosali, mangrumbe, manggufije, juru hufijéman, juru
jalir, pabisir, pawuruk, pangjungkung, pawungkunung,
pakalangkang, pakilingking, linggang, srépan, karérén-
gan, pulung padi, pawlangwlang, pakuda, pahaliman,
urutan, dampulan, tpung kawung, sungsung, pangurang,
wii tambe, wli hapa, wli pafijut, wli wadung, miérahino,
miéranginangin, pabrési, pakatimang, palamak, sinagiha,
sahulun haji waték i jro, ityewamadi kabeh, tantama-
tah irikang sima i tuhafiaru muang ing kusambyan
mangkana tekang suka dubka, kadyangganing mayang
tanpawwah walu ru (ma)mbat ing natar, wipati wangke
kabunan, rah kasawur ing
waikcapala, hastacapala, duhilatén,
amijilakén wuryyaning kikir, amuk,
amungpang, lidan, titan, angéapratyangéa, danda
kudanda, mandihaladi, kewala samasinak atah
pramana ika kabeh tkeng miérafémbul, amahang.

anglaka, anggumarang, afiarub, anulang wungkudu,
afiangwring, anguber, angepus, amdél, anggula,

angdyun, amubut, agawe suri, agawe kisi, wusuwusu,
payung wlu, mopih, anipsh, rungki, anganamandm,
afjaring, anépis, anawang, amisandung manuk,
anangkéb, akalakala, angrajut, yawat umunggwirikang
tuhafiaru, muang kusambyan, kewala samasanak atah
pramaneriya, muang sadrwya hajinya muwah mady-

b. ~wyata samasanak padagang, lwirnya, atitih saprana,
abhagana, sadasar, angawari, sadasar, angujal, satuhan,
adagang bakulan, sa isi ning gaga, sa isining sawah, sa
isining rawa, 6a isi ning sSgara, sa isi ning rwang, alih
prana hinganya, angulang kbo, 20, kbonya, angulang
sapi, 40, sapianya, angulang wdus, 80, — wdusan;
angulang celeng, sawurugan celenganya, angulung itik,
sawantayan, agulungan, sarangkang, angarah, rwang

Google
‘TEN OLD-JAVANESE COPPER-PLATES FROM SIDOTEKA 139

lumpang, pande wei, pande dang, pande mas, pande
gangsa, pande dadap, amaranggi, kapwa rwang gusali,
alukis rwang pajaran, undahagi, satuhan, acadar, rwang
pacadaran, atwih rwang widay, amalantén, rwang pama-
Iwan, ika

8a. ta hingan i sambyawara nikang tuhafiaru muang
kusambyan, kinalihanya, kunéng yan Iwih sangkeng
pahingan i kaknana, ya de sang mangilala drwya
h nya, tuhanikang kinawnangakén sama-
sanak ing tuhafiaru muang kusambyan, rikawéh
rare sitakddi, curing kinangsyan, amaguta pajéng tiga
warnna, agilanggilang ampyal gading, askar katang-
katang, makawaca, gélung grét, aséndi wulung,
tinuntun ing alangalang apangharép génding, anukana
kawé, kukuwaka, luwéluwér, wrttiwali, angkuéa,
anandang, salwirning ratna makadi manik agéng,
apawarana banantén, amanah kukulan, anuntun celeng,
atkén, lira, éucyan, ungangan, tulis wténg, andélan
susu, dinulang ing madhu parkka, santi, pasilih tamping,
pasilih galuh, pa—
b. silih kambungan, pasilihéning kdi, pris watang,
pras bundér, pras cira, pras brisadi, pris siddhayuga,
pras tuwuhtuwuhan, aglang mas ring tangan ing suku,
anandang tinulis ing mas, palungan pinikul inulésan
banantén, anunggi rare yanggénding génding, apangafijur
téwék, wnang angudasapyakluhanapahangan, anuntuna
talyasabuk, cawét, wnang amuktyakna rajamangéa, prang
gdang yan polih, maling wnang usirén ing kawula, ming
(g) at, ndatan ulih nyanginggatakén, wnang usirén ing
maling tls, tahirén yanpahutang, wnang afijamaha rare
kawula, mangkana kinawnangakén samasinak ing
tuhafiaru muang kusambyan, ri tlasnyan paripirnna
pagth anugraha éri_ mahari manghaturakén ta
samasanak i tuhatiaru muang samasanak ing ku—

9a. sambyan, pamugpa i sayathaéakti,
muwah paratanda ring pakirakiran makabehan, fan
pasék pagih yathisambhawa kading lagi sowang sowang,
muwah parasimya sapinakawadana nikang thani

Google
0 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

sakaparé, inasan pastk pagth saparikramaring lagi, ri
tlas ning adrun pastk pagéh tiningkah ta saji ning awaju,
raweh, wadihati, akudur, sahapirak, ma, I,
sable sowang mangdiri tekang wadihati ring sabha-
maddhya i sor ning turumbukan, tlas mottarasangga,
mamukhawandhana, makalambi sangke harép, mandélan
pada, sahawidhiwidhaina ning anusuk sima ring lagi
hinarépakning anawaju hanak thani, lumkas tekang
akudur manéték gulu ning ayam, amantingakén
hantiga, humarép ing krodhadeéa, mamangmang
manapathe, sumawakcang
b. minangmang ring lagi, lingnya, om indah ta kita
kamu hyang haricandana agasti maharsi, purwwadakeina
paécimottara irddham adhah maddhya, rawi, éaéi prthiwy
@pas tejo baywakaéa, dharmmahoratra, sandhyatraya,
yakea rakgasa pigica pretasura gandharwwa kinnara
mahoraga, yama baruna kuwera basawaputra dewata,
paficakuéika nandiéwara mahakala gadwindyaka nagaraja
durggadewi caturaéra: ananta hyang kalamytyu,
sakweh ta bhitagana, kita prasiddha rumakea ng
yawadwipamandala, kita sakala sakei tumon adoh aparé,
ring rahineng kulm, kita umasuk ing sarwwabhita,dréngd
teking sipatha samaya pamangmang mami ri kita kamu
hyang kabeh, yawat ikang wwang agéng admit
sawakenya, yadyan caturwarnna, brahmana keatriya,
10. a ya, éidra, athaca, caturaérami, brahmacari grhastha
vanaprastha, bhikguka, mwang pinghay awajuhakurug
anakthani, makadi sang prabhu mantry andgata, yawat
umulahulah ri kaswatantranikang sima i tuhafiaru, muang
kusambyan, muang ngaruddha mungkilmungkila, mari
kgirpnakna, mne hlém tka ning dlaha ning dlaha,
nginingini yanpangdahuta sang hyang upala sima,
angalihakna tan yogya unggwananya, salwiraning
manglilangakna kaswatantranikang sima i tuhafiaru,
muang kusambyan jah tasmat bwat karmmaknanya,
patyananta ya kamu hyang, dayantat patyani ya, yan
aparaparan, humaliwat ata ya ring tgal sahutén ing ula
mandi, ring alas manglangkahana mingmang, dmakén

Google
TEN OLD-JAVANESE COPPER-PLATES FROM SIDOTEKA M1

dening wyaghra, ring wwai sanghapén ing wuhaya, ring
sigara, sanghapén dening minarodra, prangprang,
timinggala ma—

b. hagila, ula Jampe, yan turun kapagute lujicip ing
paras, kagulungeng jurang parangan, kasémséma
rékrémpwa yan humaliwat ri sdéng ing hudan, sambérén
dening glap, yan anher ing umah katibanana bajragni,
tanpanoliha ring wuntat. tarung ring pangadégan,
tampyal ring kiwa, uwah i ri tngénan, rémék (k)
apalanya, bubak dadanya, blah wténgnya, wétwaken
dalémanya, cucup utéknya, inum rahnya, mangan
dagingnya, pépédakén wkas i prapantika, wawa ring
maharorawa, weha muktya sangsara, phalanya n
angulahaku anyayaprawrtti, kawulatan de sang hyang
trayodaga sakei | astu, o (ng), siddhir astu [loll

Translation.

1a. |IOl] Hail! The holy Saka year past, 1245, the
month of Margasirga, the fifteenth day of the bright half
of the month, Tunglai,"* Umanis,"* Tuesday, Krulwut,"*
the position of the planet is in the East, the star is
Ardra, the deity is Rudra, the region
the yoga is Brahma, the muhirtta
presiding deity of the orb is Yama, the Karana is
Wawa, the Zodiac sign is that of Mithuna. At this
time the orders of H.M. the auspicious great king,
king of kings, who is god (-like) and exterminator of
heroes (wirdlandagopala) who eliminates coming danger
by stretching (hands) towards the dagger (?),"* whose
lotus-feet have been encaged in immense Kofis of
diadems of homage-paying princes and kinge, who

13 MalPolynesian day of the six-day week.

14 Mal.-Polynesian day of the five-day week.

15 This is expressive of a Mal. Polynesian time-reckoning.

16 The text has abhanggardhatte-raya, of which the component
rahatta is not known to me. If this is regarded as a copyist’s mistake
for rahat{fja, the above translation may be accepted.

Google
42 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

separates the head of the kings of enemies expert
in unabating contests, who is dreadful, whose enemies
have been conquered, who is the protector of waters,
the circle of cities and the ocean’, who is (like) the
Moon that opens the heart-lotuses of the assemblage
of all good men, who, in destroying all enemies, is
just like the Sun that dispels the darkness of the
night, who is exalted by the Vipras and the Kgatriyas,
who is the auspicious one with the coronation-name
of Sundarapandyadevadhiévara,
b. exalted like a god in prowess,"*—were received by
the three Hon. Ministers (viz.), rakryan mantri hino (who
is) dyah Sri Rangganatha, dreadful to the enemies,
rakryan mantr sirikan (who is) dyah Sri Rangganatha,
dreadful to the enemies, rakryan mantri sirikan (who is)
dyah Kameévara, of unblemished character, rakryan
mantri halu (who is) dyah Viévanatha, undaunted like the
younger brother of Bhima, having at their head rake
tuhan mapatih of Daha (named) dyah Purugeévara, who
source of fright to enemies in warfare through his
prowess of arms, who is just an agent to strengthen
and to redouble the firmness of the seat of the suspi-
cious great King which is graced bya gate set with
gold and jewels and by a wishing-tree,”” along with rake
tuhan mapatih of Majapahit (named) dyah Halayudha
having innumerable qualities and irreproachable si
and communicated” to paratanda rakryan of different

17 The Pandya-kings, on the other hand, boasted that they went
forth to conquer the seas. The idea is clearly the same,
cover the ocean.

18 Lit. “Overlord of Sundarapindyadeva.” .

19 The above translation may be accepted if the text-portion doce
not denote another title of the king.

20 Another interpretation is possible, vis., great King who
reigned from the gate (of the throne) set with gold and jewele like
a wishing-tree,”” ete.

21 The construction is, "The orders of.

sabd communicated to,. ete,

.were received by

Google
‘TEN OLD-JAVANESE COPPER-PLATES FROM SIDOTEKA 143

departments (viz.,) rakryan dmung (who is) pu Samaya
delighting in the field of war, rakryan kanuruhan
(who is) pu Anékakan, the destroyer of enemy-hosts
in the battle-field, rakrya-

2. n rangga (who is) pu Jalu, of unsurpassing valour
in warfare, rakryan mapatih of Kapulungan (who is)
pu Dedes, an irresistible hero, rakryan mapatih of
Matahun (named) pu Tanu who offers succour to
those afflicted in war, and the mantri Vrddha™ expert
in understanding demeanour (inggitajfia), sang dryya
patipati (who is) pu Kapat, extremely proficient in.........
sang aryya wangéaprana (who is pu Ménur, to whom
delights in warfare are the only adornments, sang aryya
rajaparakrama surnamed Elam, irreproachable in politics
and discipline, sang dryya Jayapati (who is) pu Pamor,
Prone to perfect truth, sang dryya Sundaradhi-rajadasa
(who is) pu Kapasa, foremost in different kinds of
qualities for staunch attachment", along with sang
Gryya Rajadhikara (who is) pu Tanga, alws alert
through the speculation of extremely complicated
politics, certainly a punishing arm to the auspicious
great King who always talke of the protection of the
whole circle of Yavadvipa, and not leaving behind
(in consideration) the Hon. Dharmméadhikarana (lit.
judge) who is the distinguisher between righteous and
evil processes, sang pamgét i tirwan™* (who is) Da-

b. ng dcaryya Ragavijaya mapafji Sahasa who has
finished the (lore of) logic and grammar, sang pamgét
i kandamuhi (who is) dang adca@ryya Viévanatha mapaiiji

2 The other interpretation may be “the mantri (i.¢., minister)
who is old and expert in...” ete. The difficulty is whether we
can accept Vrddha as a proper name. It is doubtful if a minister
can be denoted without a name or a surname. Cf. Nagarakr, 10:1 :2.

23 The text as it stands yields no sente. 1 suggest the emenda-
tion into Sa(ke)lagramanurageguna, .

% For an explanation of this and some of the following terms,
see BKI., 90, pp. 239 &.

Google
14 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

Paragata who has finished the (lore of) Samkhya
philosophy, sang pamgét i manghuri (who is) dang
Gcaryya( ) hanatha who has finished the (lore of) logic
and grammar, sang pamgét i pamwatan (who is) dang
céryya Dharmmaraja who has completed the lore of
logic, sang pamgét i jambi (who is) dang acaryya
Sivanatha who has finished the (lore of) logic and
grammar, the dharmmadhyakga (i. e., religious superin-
tendent) of the Saiva institutions, (viz.,) sang pamgét
i ranu kaba yan (who is) dang dcaryya Samaranatha who
has finished the (lore of) logic and grammar, the
dharmmadhyakga of the Buddhist institutions, (viz.,) my
lord of Padélégan (who is) dang dcaryya Kanakamuni
who has finished the Buddhist sciences of logic and
grammar. And accordingly the orders of the auspicious
great king were sent to the villages at Tuhafiaru and at
Kusambyan to bring into execution the sacred royal

3 a. command of the pragasti that has received the seal of
a pair of fishes. (These) places belonged to and were
sorted under Janatosan (who was) furnished with the
seals of Tuhafiaru and Kusambyan that have been
marked off into free regions with an image thereon.
The reason thereof was the conduct of dyah Makara-
dhvaja who begged the excellent favour of the
auspicious great king for having the (villages of)
Tuhafiaru and Kusambyan marked off into free
regions with an image thereon. This may have the
consequence of freedom for dyah Makaradhvaja and his
children and the freedom of the groups of families in
Tuhafiaru and Kusambyan which cease thereby to be
dependent on others. Even so were their regulations
in earlier times that only the sima(i.e., lands) should
be free with an image thereon. Such were the
contents of the requests of dyah Makeradhvaja to
H. M. the auspicious Great King. Rewards for staunch
devotion to the auspicious Great King were desired by**

25 Lit, ‘are the desires off,

Google
‘TEN OLD-JAVANESE COPPER-PLATES FROM SIDOTEKA 143

dyah Makeradhvaja. And all persons testified to the
virtuousness of dyah Makaradhvaja, because, without
vacillation dyah Makaradhvaja did his best in
b. risk (2) of his life to strive after the better stability
of the seat of the auspicious Great King who reigned
over the whole circle of Yavadvipa, thus fulfilling the
traits of a good son. For this staunch devotion, he
always tried** not to be led astray from (the path of)
conduct and reason, and always imitated the example of
philanthropic works (set) by the auspicious Great King.
The regards for the auspicious Great King bore fruits
in that these always prompted him” (to avoid) what
must be thrown out and (to do) what must be retained.
Such was the conduct of dyah Makaradhvaja. In
consequence of this fact, the auspicious Great King
bestowed the favour. Indeed, the auspicious Great
King himself was cognisant of the sincerity of dyah
Makaradhvaja and his son's devotion that added lustre
to their family by their services to the auspicious
Great King. In consequence of these, the substance of
the request of dyah Makaradhvaja was approved by
the auspicious Great King. It had this consequence
that all men testified to the righteousness of the
auspicious Great King. This one (ji. e., Makaradhvaja)
could not but love (him) and (accordingly), in full
measure, he performed the duties of an excellent
4a. servant and (this), without dissocis himself from
philanthropic works done by the auspicious Great King
who has indeed been called an incarnation of Vignu.
(This) extremely noble personage has been installed

26 Lit. ‘considered’.

2 Probably the king is intended here. Cj. a similar “passage in
the Pénampiban inscription of 1191 Saka. See OJO., LXXIX, pl. 4a
or JGIS., Vol. Il, pp. 59, 66.

Google
4 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

in each temple” of the kingdom of Majapahit through
the instrumentality of rake tuhan mapatih (who is) dyah
Purugeévara, exercising suzerainty over all people in
the whole circle of Yavadvipa, subjugating, in the first
place, the islands of Madura and Tafjungpura.” These
now presented the income and expenditure (dyabyaya)”*
of all persons who, with devotion, always paid respects
to H. M. the auspicious Great King. Moreover, the
work of the inhabitants*? (?) of each of these and other
islands consisted in the gift of flower-baskets” without
fail(?) as each year arrived. In consequence of the
fact that (the king) also delighted in the offerings of
homage of the excellent servant who practised philan-
thropic works (Kaparahitan), (the latter) maintained
the stability of his own dharmma, such as, rituals,
mumbling (of mantras) and concentration on prayer.
(So there was) the bestowal of the excellent favour from
the auspicious Great King who is known

b. as having the expression of an image of Vignu. The
auspicious Great King can be inimical or friendly to all
persons. Dyah Makaradhvaja however is a fit person
for the bestowal of the excellent favour, in consequence
of which this was transformed into the sacred royal
command of the praéasti that has received the seal

28 Prasida may be equal to prasdda, of which the Skt. meaning
ia ‘palace’, the Old-Jav. meaning is ‘temple’. If the literal meaning
with prasdda has to be retained, the passage should be translated as
‘ssssseedMiajapahit which is comparable to a gift of favour’. This would
be of great significance for the history of this period.

29 Borneo.

30 Both in Sanskrit as well as Old-Javanese dyabyaya means
‘income and expenditure’. Probably, by byaya of the text we have
to understand the ‘means of expenditure’. In that case both the words
‘are almost synonymous.

31 Po da=Pada? Po-da is not known to me. Pora which may be in-
tended here is the equivalent of Skt. Paura, i.c., citizens. In Old Javanese,
‘Skt. au is equal to 0., €.g., gorawa for gaurawa, ete.

32 Cf. this passage with OJO., p. 14, inscr. No. XII. a4; also
OJO., p. 31, inser. No. XXIII, 7.

Google
TEN OLD-JAVANESE COPPER-PLATES FROM SIDOTEKA 147

of a pair of fishes. (This) has to be taken care of by
the community of Tuhafiaru and Kusambyan which
have been marked off into free regions with an image
thereon. These may not be interfered with by others.
Such were their regulations in early times. Only the
community at Tuhafiaru and the community at Kusam-
byan are the sole authority over all their valleys and
mounts (extending) up to arid grounds (and) morasses.
‘What now concerns is the measurement of the grounds
of Tuhafiaru and Kusambya(n). In the East, they are
margined by Pamulung ; in the direction of the South
they emerge out of (i. e., margined by) the river with
elevation towards the South-east; they go in the direc-
tion of Tugu Kulumpang separating from Pamulung
and Kawalédan and the centre of Wadu; in the
direction of the West they bend in

5 a, the South-West and come to the South ; they separate
from the middle of Wanu and, in the direction of the
West, they touch the South-West with the Western side
stretching up to the bank of the river; (they) separate
from the middle of the village** towards the South (but)
follow the bank of the river; towards the West (they)
follow the bank of the river; stretching towards the
North-East they separate from the middle of the village
(and) from Padada; going by the direction of the
North (they) separate from Padada; going by the direc-
tion of the North and coming towards the West they
separate from Padada; in the North-Eastern direction
they come across a bend (?)*; in the direction of the
North they stretch out in elevation towards the North-
West ; they separate from Bana®* and Pangeran ; going

33 Another posible construction is, ‘they separate from the
middle of the village; towards the South they followin...” ete,

34 The phrase anika lalewa in connexion with a boundary also
occurs in the Gédangan inscr. of 782 $.E, Vide VG., Vil, pl. IV, b:
tlio in K.O., p. 7, inser, No. Il, 2a, 3.

35 A place-name or a forest?

Google
48 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

by the direction of the East towards the North they
separate from Pengeran ; further, going in the direction
of the East (they) rise in elevation towards the North-
East; they again separate from Pangeran and Panulung,
bending only at the South-West; further, going by the
direction of the South and stretching towards the
East they separate from Pamulung. Such are the
b. boundaries of the ground of Tuhafiaru and of
Kusambyan. There are sawah-felds with fruits and
cloisters standing in relation to the community of
Tuhafiaru with dyah Makaradhvaja. The sawah-fields
are t8mpah | in measurement ; further, the community
of Kusambyan standing in relation to dyah Makara-
dhvaja have sawah-fields (measuring) t8mpah |. These
may be trod upon and inherited up to the remotest future
and enjoyed by the children and further progeny of
dyah Makaradhvaja, without being opposed by the
community of Tuhafiaru and the community of
Kusambyan. Because fruits and cloisters completely
stand in relation to dyah Makaradhvaja. Such are
the regulations of the free regions of Tuhafiaru and
Kusambyan. And further, the regulations of both are
that only the free regions with an image thereon
may never be disturbed by the future kings and
isters up to the remotest future and may not be
interfered with by the
6a. nayaka, pratyaya; these may not be met and
visited, robbed and attacked by the royal servants,
great and small, who travel far and near, and may
not be trodden** upon by being brought under all the
worthy three (ministers, viz., Pangkur, tirip, *7 and
pinghe,”* wahuta rama ; further, all of the mangilala

36 For the original meaning of this word (Katamano) see,
Kawi-Balin, Wdb., Il, p. 747; TBG., LXV, p. 24, E.n. 69.

37 The copyist omits here the name of the other, iz,
tawan, which we usually find in the other records. cf. OJO., LXVI
second face 13; OJO., LX, first face, 19.

38 Also spelt as Pinghal.

Google
TEN OLD-JAVANESE COPPER-PLATES FROM SIDOTEKA 149

drwyahaji,"* wuluwulu,"* Parawuluoulu,"* (whether)
great or small, having at their head miéra paramisray‘?
panghurang,*? kring,“* padim,“* manimpiki,“* paranakan"*
limus galuh,"* mangrifici,* manghuri parang, sungka,
dhara,®* pangaruhan,"* sungging, pangun’ngan,” ta
watu tajém,"* sukun,"* (ha) lu warak," rakasang,

39 Collectors of taxes. Vide TBG., LVIII, p. 395, also dl. LIX,
pp. 130, 159, fin. 2.

40 Artisans in employment of the king?

41 Apparently a class of people.

42 In VG., VII, p. 24, Kern translated this word by ‘great and
petty usurers'. Dr. Stutterheim plausibly suggests that the terms may
signify ‘Chiefs’. Vide TBG., LXV, p. 246.

43 Kern translated this word by ‘mendicant friar’ in VG., VIl,
p. 47; Dr. Stutterheim plausibly suggests that the term signifies tohan,
ive, ‘older’, ‘village-head’, ete.

4A certain class of monks? cf. Kern, VG., VII, p. 35.

45 Apparently a clase of persons. Elsewhere we find padem opay
which literally means ‘the extinguishing of fire’. For a detailed note
on this term, see TBG., LXV, p. 247.

4% Cabinet-worsers? Vide, Kawi-Balin. Wdb., IV, p. 521,

47 Kem tranalates this term by ‘one belonging to a mixed caste’
in VG., VIL, p. 47.

48 Goldamith.

49 The root of the word is rifci meaning ‘kind, sort’, ete. Can
the term mean ‘one who describes things’ that is an inspector?

50 For a detailed note, sce Berg, Middeljacaansche Historische
Traditie, pp. 19 €.; TBG., LXV, p. 254 ff. Here « class of smiths is
probably intended. Parang, sungka and dhira are articles of smith-
work with special reference to weapons(?).

51 A clase of smiths see TBG., LXV., pp. 228 f., f.n. 31.

52 Apparently « clase of persons.

53 Apparently a class of persons. The root uneng does not help
us much in discovering ite significance.

54 Apparently a class of persons.

55 A grinder of stones,

56 A clas of medical men who invoke the aid of the gods to
cure diseases by making offerings to them.

57 The Bal. glose has jara pangojch. The term signifies ‘persons

the retinue of the king rendering services as director of the
orchestra, wayang and other entertainments’.

58 A certain clase of persons,

Google
150 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

ramanang,"* piningle,”* katangarai
malandang," Ica, lablab,* kukap,'
trépan,** watu walang, maniga,”
pamanikan," sikpan,"* rumban,"* wilang wanwa"? wi—

59 Apparently a class of persons.

60 According to v.d. Tauk, this is a variation for einingle. Bal.
gloss has jawa génding (musician?).

61 Cook. Bal. gloss has jara jakan.

62 Dr. Stuttethelm refers to Nagarakr, (75: 2: 4:) where air hajt
‘appears as a mantri (mentri her-haji) who takes care of Brshmana hermits.
Hete both the terms probably signify some kind of jaras or heads
connected with religious duties. Dr. Stutterheim is probably right in
thinking that the use of the word tapa in the sense of ascetic is not very
probable here.

63 Soe Kawi-Balin. Wdb., IV, 584. The term elgnifies someone
‘who institutes a dice-play or cock-scrapping and collects 10 p.c.

64 A certain class of persons,

65 Lit. artocarpus incisa or bread-fruit tree, Ite significance here
ia uncertain,

66 Apparently a class of persons.

67 In @ similar place in K.O., p. 16, inser. VII, 4a, 1, we have
utak, meaning a clase of officers. Ketat is not known to me.

68 A class of officers in the special service of the King. See
T.B.G., LXV, p. 252; also Kewi-Balin. Wdb., IV, p. 73.

69 A clase of persons (officers?).

70 This is probably a clase of persons playing @ certain réle in
connexion with erection of sacred stones. See T.B.G., LXV, pp. 255-6.

71 A class of musicians?

72 Kern brings this word into relation with the Jav. Patri meaning
‘wldiers'. Thia ts probably « secondary meaning. The root is ma+tiga.
Hence it means persons joining three things, i.c., wicker-work-makers.
Vide T.B.G., LXV, p. 256.

73 Jewellers.

74 A. clase of officers. The interpretation of this term by Stutter-
heim (op. cit.) appears doubtful to me on account of the occurrence of
pamaniken between maniga and sikpan.

75 Settera of jewels.

76 ‘Land-teller’ (Kern, V.G., VII, p. 48); according to Stutterhelm
‘division (divider?) of grounds in communal possession’.

Google
‘TEN OLDJAVANESE COPPER-PLATES FROM SIDOTEKA. 151

b. jikawah,” panggare," tingkis,"” mawi
tanghiran," tuhadagang,"*  tuhanambi
juru gosali,“* mangrumbe,"” mangguiije,
jura jalir,"° pabisir,""  pawuruk,”” pangjungkung,
pawungkunung,”* pakalangkang, pakilit

linggang, srSpan,"* karSréngan," pulung padi
pawlangwlang,"” pakuda,"” —pahaliman,'® urutan,'”
dampulan,'® tpung kawung,'* sungsung,’* pangdrang’

manambangi
“ tuha judi,”

18

77 “Pot-washers’ (Kern, Ibid., pp. 47). Stutterheim suggests
‘persons with the task of bathing women 40 days after their delivery.”
See T.B.G., LXV, pp. 257 &.

78 Apparently a class of persons.

79 Also spelt tangkés. A class of persons probably connected in
some way with war-armour,

Workers of articles with bamboo?

Makers of ropes.

A clase of persons.

Traders.

‘Medical man ot seeker of roots of medical plants?
Officers having control over houses instituting dice-games.
Elsewhere taha gusoli, smiths.

Corresponding to Indian cfranas?

According to Juynboll, festoon-makere for Kris.
A clase of persons.

The head of prostitutes.

A class of persons.

A ferry-man.

Apparently © class of persons. Crew of ships?
A clase of persons.

Both mean heads of rice-granaries.

A class of persons.

A lass of officers.

Binders of pedi.

Slaves engaged for falconry?

100 Officers over horses.

101 Officer over elephants,

102 Apparently a class of people.

103 An attendant of hotees.

104 Copyists of palm-leaf MSS. Vide also TBG., LXV. p. 260.

105 Messenger.

106 The name of this officer has been repeated twice. See note on
pangharang in 6 «.

SELKKLSSLSSSSRASSKSS

Google
is HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

wli wadung,

wli tambi wli hapa,’ wli paijut,”
mifrahino,"" migranginangin,' pabrési,'"* pakatimang,""*
palamak,""* sinagiha,"* sahulun haji," royal slaves of
the inner apartments, etc., all (such persons) may not
tread upon the free regions of Tubafiaru and
Kusambyan. Even s0,"* the good and bad things
(occurring in these free regions), such as, the pinang
-blossom that bears no fruit, a pumpkin that creeps
along the ground, death, corpse bedewed,"" blood
spilt on the

7 a, ground," rashness in speech,” rashness with hands,
“sprinkled spittle that one must swallow, uncovering of
magically forged weapons," amok-making, molestation

107 Dealers in ropes.

108 Dealers in lime.

109 Dealers in lights, luminaries, ete.

110 Dealers in hatchets.

111 An officer who brings (?) orders (of the King?). See TBG..
LXV, p. 258.

112. It signifies buffoon. ef. also Ibid., p. 258: BKI., 1924, p. 284.

113. According to Kem =(VG., VII, p. 49), cushion-carriere of the King.

114 Dealers of katimang-trees?

115 Tallow-chandler.

116 A class of officers.

117 According to Kern (VG., VII, p. 49), ‘slaves of landlords, slaves
maintained out of luxury’. Stutterheim suggests ‘slaves coming to the
king's possession out of misdeeds.’ See TBG., LXV, p. 266.

118. This is a stereotyped passage and already occurs in the Gadangan
inser. of 782 $.E., plate VI, b. Vide Kern, VG., VII, p. 36. We are #0
far removed from Old-Javanese times and language that we do not pro-
perly understand the significance of the passage. In recent years,
Dr. Stutterheim has thrown some light on it.

119 Vide Jonker, Een Oudjavaansch wetboek, 1885, art. 66 and 67.
The ‘blood spilt’ was gethered by mischievious persons and this formed
a kind of poison; the ground thereunder was regarded as antidote to it.
So ‘blood spilt’ was dreaded by the Javanese people. See Babad Tench
Jawi, pp. 264-266, ed. Meinsma. TBG., LXV, p. 271, fo. 74.

120 Vakparupya and Dandaparayya of Skt. jurists.

121 This was supposed to let loose the magical might of metale with
which the weapon was constructed. Cf. BKI., 1915, p. 246; TBG. LXV.
p. 272.

Google
‘TEN OLD-JAVANESE COPPER-PLATES FROM SIDOTEKA 153

of women,"”... 1’ all sorts of punishments, abuse 8,
—-with all of them only the community (of Tuhafiaru
and Kusambyan) are solely concerned. (So also) with
1° (the trades in) black paints (?), lights, lac,
14 the making of roofs, thickening (?) of
morinda citrifolia,** purple-red paints, red paints (2),
tapes, blue dying-stuff, sugar, pots, turner’s work,
combs, shuttle (2) for the spinning wheel, spinning
cotton, linen umbrella of different colours, leaf-sheath,
sirih-plums,'®* sheath (2), wicker-works, net, fish seized
with a kind of net, sack, birds that have been seized,
beast-trapping, fancy buttons,—as long as these are
found in (the villages of) Tuhafiaru and Kusambyan,
they are always subject to the authority of the
community. Further, the taxes due to the King (from
these places) are also the possessions of the community
that can

b. transact business in such things as beasts; (they)
can sell cotton-cloths,......,""" art metal-works, aa
jewels (2). Each ‘master can transact business with
baskets having the products of arid grounds, having the
products of irrigated fields (sawahs), having the products
of marshy lands, having the products of seas, having the

122 Kern translated this word by ‘insolence’ in his edition of the
Gdangon inscription. Dr. Stutterheim much more plausibly suggest
the above meaning.

123 The known meanings of these words do not appear to be applicable
here.

124 Thie word is not known to me. The root appears to be garang:
ang+um4+gorang. Karang is a kind of flower.

125 In @ corresponding place of the Wanogiri inscription (TBG.,
LXXIV, pp. 288, 2M and f.n. 3 on p. 294) we have mamakat wungkads,
ive., the thickening of wangkuda. In the Singasari plate (1BG., LXV,
pp. 236, 276) we shave manulang woungkada apparently in the above sense.
The word wungkuda denotes a kind of plant with the root of which one
paints cotton.

126 The text has anipah=a+sipah (=Spah?).

127 The known meanings of the word are not applicable here. The
word has been repeated twice in the same breath.

Google
154 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

products of four (lit. two and two) beasts. These are the
fixed limits. If buffaloes are driven (? into the market-
place of the free regions then) 20 buffaloes (are free
from taxes); if cows are driven (?), 40 cows; if goate are
driven (2), 80 goats; if boars are driven (2), all boars may
be chased away ; if geese are driven (2), full one cage
(is free) ; in transport-service, by rolling up and
packing up (things), two lumpangs (are free). The
iron-smith, potter, goldsmith, brass-smith, manufacturer
of shields, amaranggi,** also the two gusalis, alukis,'**
the two pdjarans, carpenter, each ‘‘master™’ may carry
with one yoke (i. ¢., cross-beam) two shoulder-loads,'”*
also........."° (may carry with one yoke) two (shoulder-
loads), the washer (may carry with one yoke)

8a. two—!. These then are the regulations about the
business of Tuhafiaru and Kusambyan, of them both.
And if there is anything more outside these stipulations,
this may be touched (i. ¢., taxed) by the Hon. Collectors
of royal taxes (and) others. Others are certainly under
the authority of the Community of Tuhafiaru and
Kusambyan for enjoyment with lads (and) children.
They can use foot-bells and play with Kangsi (musical
instruments). They can open three-coloured umbrella,
use the uncared-for ampyal-bamboos, small yellow
cocoanuts, flowers, grass, breast-plate (talisman?). They
can knot up hair-wreaths, make the feet blue-black—,'?
for maintenance, desire for gamélan (-music), enjoy—,"”
crabs, waka plante—,'** salve, herbs, plantains ; they

128 Apparently a class of persons.

129 The text has acadar - pacadaran which also occurs in the
copper-plates from Singasari (TBG., LXV. p. 267). In the footnote to
these words on p. 275, Dr. Stutterheim says that cadar may be due to
confusion for dadar. In that case we have to assume that these
words were not only misunderstood by the copyist of the Singasari
copper-plate but also by the writer of the OJO., No. XXX, 20, and also
the copyiat of the record under review, who lived in different centuries.

130 Apparently a class of persons,

131. The word is not known to me.

132 The known meanings of this word do not yield any sense here.

Google
‘TEN OLD-JAVANESE COPPER-PLATES FROM SIDOTEKA 155

can use elephant-hook (ankuéa), dress themselves
in all kinds of precious metals (ratna) having jewels
(manik) of great size in the first instance, fine stuffs of
clothes (banantén) to cover themselves up, wooden
bells. 1 purificatory things—,""_ extend (?)
writing sheets, enjoy milk, place their mouths on the
plate of honey (madhuparka), live here, use on each
side precious stones of different colours, adorn
b. one another with flowers (?)."** Each other may (see)
to the purity of the eunuch (?),"** (offerings like) pris
watang, pras bundér, prds cira, prds brisadi, pras
siddhayuga, praés tuwuhtuwuhan. They can (also)
use golden bracelets on hands and on feet, the sides
(being) carved out in gold; clothes may be twisted
into thin folds, borne, and put on. They can admit
(other) lads who can play music; they can carry (?)
dagger ; they can ride on horses, ox, use nose-ring,
take part in social gatherings, put on (?) thread-girdle,
loin-cloth ; they can enjoy rich dishes (rajamansa), fight
with the help of clubs‘ (?) when they can catch hold
of thieves ; they can chase run-away slaves but cannot
kill (the slaves) who have run away; they can chase
thieves who have stolen shortly before and who may
be made to pay back according to their guilt; they can
shave the lads and slaves. Such as these can be done
by the community of Tuhafiaru and Kusambyan, after
the favour of the auspicious Great King was brought
to a fruition and permanently fixed. After that the
community of Tuhafiaru and the community of Kusam-
byan paid homage to

9a. and eulogised the auspicious Great King, according
to their ability. Further, the paratandas of different
affairs received fixed sums, as far as possible, each
according to the usual custom. Again, the parasdmyas

133. Kambungan=Kambengan?
134 It is notclear if thie meaning should be accepted here.
135 Gdang=gading?

Google
156 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

(i.e., the subjects) as were made head-officers of the
neighbouring places received fixed sums according to
the nature of the usual custom. After the completion
of (these) gifts (?) fixed sums were also placed for offer-
ings to awaju, raweh, wadihati and the akudur, and
each (received) silver | ma and pieces of cloth. (Then)
stood up the wadihati in the midst of the assembly
and under the turumbukan."* Thereupon the Rev-
Uttarasangga"®? binding the mouth and covering the
front-part with a jacket confirmed the region,'** according
to the usual custom of marking off free regions in earlier
times, (thus) striven after by the anawajus and the
natives. The akudur came forward and separated the
neck of the cock, smashed the egg."** came to the front
in anger, cursed, swore and spoke out loudly (?)

b. oaths according to custom. His words were: Om! Be
gracious, you all gods, Haricandana, the great seer Agas-
tya, East, South, West, North, Zenith, Nether, Middle, Sun,
Moon, Earth, Water, it, wind, ether, laws, day and
night, the three’? twilights, yakeas, rakgasas, pisdcas,
pretas, demons, gandharvas, kinnaras, the Great Serpent,
Yama, Varuna, Kuvera, the son of Vasava, the deities,
the five Kusikas, Nandiévara, Mahakala, Ganeéa, the
king of serpents, the goddess Durga, the four déramas,
Ananta, the deities of Time and Death, also all beings
(bhitagana), you who are known to protect the circle
of the island of Java, you all witnesses who see far
and near, by day and by night, you who are incarnate

136 Tem?

137 Cf. OJO., No. XIl, = 7; OJO., No. XLVIII, second face, 20.
From these, atfarasangga appears to be a title. Cf. thie passage with
OJO., XLVIIL, second face. 20.21.

138. Or, ‘stood upon the feet’.

139. The reason why the cock was killed and the egg was smashed is
explicitly stated in KO., I. I have translated this record for the forth-
coming Dacca University Studies, Vol. 1.

M40 It should be two twilighte. ef. OJO., XLII, second face, 27;
OJO., XLVIII, second face, 24, ete.

Google
‘TEN OLD.JAVANESE COPPER-PLATES FROM SIDOTEKA 157

in all beings, hear" this swear, curse and oaths of mine
to you, O all gods, as long as the man, great or small,
of evil disposition (?), whether of the four varnas, (viz.,)
Brahmana, Kgatriya, Vai-

10 a. sya, Sidra, or (lit. and also)'* of the four aéramas,
(viz.,) Brahmacari, Grhastha, Vanaprastha, Bhikguka,
and pinghay, awajuh, akurug, anak thani, having at
their head the future kings and ministers, as long as
he violates the independence of the free regions of
Tuhafiaru and Kusambyan, and hinders and re-
peatedly opposes (the effects of this edict), he may go
to ruin, from now on to the remotest future. Above
all, if the sang hyang upala sima (i.e., the sacred
stone) is pulled off (by any one) and removed with-
out its proper place to sit upon,—all of them (thus)
making little of the independence of the free regions
of Tuhafiaru and Kusambyan, as the result of their
deeds, may be killed by you, O gods, they may be
killed by you! When such person goes away (or)
passes alone in the field (tgal), he may be bitten by
Poisonous snakes; in the forest he may step over
(i.e., be entangled in) tree-roots, be attacked by tigers;
in the water (he may be) bitten by the crocodile;
in the sea (he may be) destroyed by ferocious fishes,
(viz.,) prangprang, timinggala (°gila), maha-

b. gila, aquatic (?) snakes; when he descends he may
be pinched by the sharp points of stones, rolled into
the mountain chasm, confused by sleet (?); when he
goes during the time of rain (he may be) struck by
lightning ;. when he remains in the dwelling-place he
may be scorched"* by vajragni (i. e., the fire of vajra),
without (finding time to) turn backwards; he may be

141 The spelling drngé ie rather uncommon, Usually it is rengs,
cccasionally dengs.

142 The text has athaca, a better reading would be athaod.

143 Lit, ‘met by, overthrown by’. The root is (ibd meaning ‘fall’.

Google
158 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

pushed on the frontside, killed on the leftside, again
on the rightside, his forchead may be smashed,
his chest may be smashed, his belly may be ripped
open, his entrails may be drawn out, his brains may be
sipped up, his blood may be drunk up, his flesh may
be eaten up, he may be kicked at length to die, he may
be thrown into the Mahdraurava-hell and further suffer
sorrows. (This is) the result of showing (2) evil
propensities which were seen by the thirteen witnesses !'“*
Let that be so! Om! let that be accomplished [|Oll

144 Thirteen deities are intended here.

Google
NOTICES OF BOOKS

On two recent reconstructions of a Sanskrit Hymn
transliterated with Chinese characters : By Baron A. von
Staél-Holstein, Peiping.

Buddhist Sanskrit texts were not only translated into
different languages in different lands outside India, such as
Tibet and China, but some of them were also transliterated
in their own characters. The transliterated works moetly
contain sacred formulas called mantras in Sanskrit, stags in
Tibetan and chau in Chinese. The Tibetan and Chinese
people believed just like the Indians, from whom they learnt
Buddhism, that the sacred formulas were to be recited in
their original forms, otherwise they would be useless. This
is why the formulas were transliterated. So in China the
Emperor Ch'ien Lung declared that while the canonical
texts might be translated, the formulas had to be translite-
rated. Now the work of transliteration presented no difficulty
to the Tibetans, for they possess a phonetic script, which was
adopted from the Indians, but that was not the case with
the Chinese people, as the phonetic value of the Chinese
characters has not been the same in different provinces for
many centuries past. In 1800 A.D, a Commission headed
by an Imperial Prince was appointed for the revision of
all the sacred formulas contained in the Chinese Buddhist
canon and it succeeded fairly well whenever the counter-
parts of the formulas transliterated in Chinese characters
were found transcribed in Tibetan script in the sacred books
of Tibet.

Now there is a small work, Lokeévara stotra, only in
eight stanzas in the Tofaka metre. It was twice translated
into Chinese—frrst under the Emperor Ch'ien Lung, and then
under the Commission referred to above. The Commission
declared that it did not find its counterpart in the Tibetan
works. Hence the transliteration was most unsatisfactory.

Google
160 NOTICES OF BOOKS

Prof. Sta#l-Holstein, who is a well-known expert in such
works, has, therefore, attempted in the present paper a new
reconstruction of the text basing it on the former two with
the help of the Tibetan translation, and we can safely say
that he has greatly succeeded.

The original Sanskrit work which has not yet been found
is by Bhikeuni Lakemi (Dge. Slo. ma. Dpal. ma),—whose
memory is atill highly respected in Tibet. While, the name
of the Tibetan translator is not known, the Chinese transla-
tion is attributed to one Fa T’ien (Dharmadeva), an Indian
Buddhist monk, who came to China in the 10th century from
Nalanda.

It may be noted here that there is another Lokeévara
stotra by Caryadipa in the Tanjur.

In his re-construction of the stotra Prof. Staél-Holstein
has put first the Tibetan translation and when the two Chinese
transliterations, the second of them being both in Chinese and
Roman characters, and then he gives his own transliteration
which clearly shows his great labour and erudition. He has
added an English translation and notes full of various infor-
mation. The Chinese transliterations are so defective that
here and there a line or half a line could not be
re-constructed, and in such cases even the Tibetan translation
does not give any help. So it is evident that in these places
the Tibetan translation itself could not strictly follow the
original Sanskrit. Let us take one example: line 25,
which, as finally settled by Prof. Staél-Holstein, according to
the two old transliterations and the Tibetan translation,
runs as follows :—Jvaravyadiharam bahusaukhyakaram. Here
the reading bahu is clearly supported by the two translitera-
tions, but not by the Tibetan translation, which reads mchog
meaning the best (vara, uftama, etc.) and in no case, so far
as I know, ‘much’ (or bahu) in Sanskrit. One thing may be
noted here. Prof. Holstein rightly says that metrically the
reading vydadi is here wrong, as the second syllable of the
line must be short. Hence, he observes that the original
version may have had the reading roga for vyadhi. It
appears that the language of the stotra was influenced by

Google
NOTICES OF BOOKS tor

the Buddhist Sanskrit and 80 there was vadhi for vyadhi.
This view ig supported by some other words in the text. In
line 31 there is varaksira, which on the same ground cannot
be admitted and should be read as khira in place of Sanskrit
kgira ‘milk’. So in line 32 for the same reason instead of
Sri potalakadhi*, one should read Siri poto’. This view is
further supported by line 29. Here Tib. (TF) glan po dregs
is in Sanskrit mattagaja (strictly gajamatta in the order of
the Tibetan words). Accordingly the transliteration to suit the
metre should be gajamatta and not gajamanda, as suggested
by Prof. Stazl-Holetein. But strictly in Sanskrit the adjective
must come before the noun in such cases, and one cannot
write gajamatta. Yet according to both the transliterations
the former is the actual reading, and, as such, it shows here
the influence of the Buddhist Sanskrit. And | think to this
is due mekhala for mekhald in line 21. Take also into consi-
deration the construction of the whole line which according
to the Tib. version (gser mchog ska roge nor buhi rgyan
Idan) may literally suggest in Sanskrit prose hemavara (or
varahema) mekhalamanibhiganavantam.

\VIDHUSHEKHARA BHATTACHARYA

On a Peking Edition of the Tibetan Kanjur By Baron
A. von Staél-Holstein, Peiping.

This is a pamphlet on a Peking edition of the Kanjur,
one of the two great divisions of the Tibetan Buddhist
canons, which seems to be unknown in the West. Only two
printed Peking editions of the Kanjur are generally known
to modern scholars, one being published in 1410 A.D. and
the other in 1700 A.D. The complete set of the former is
extremely rare. The Prussian State Library possesses only
thirty-six volumes out of one hundred and six, which are to
be found in the Yung Ho Kung lamasery of Peking. But
a short document, reproduced in a plate by the author, which
is found in several volumes of an edition of the Kanjur with
him, clearly shows that in Peking there was another edition

10

Google
162 NOTICES OF BOOKS

of the work in 1692 A.D. According to the same document
a Bhikgu Danasagara (Dge. Slong. Sbyin. pa. rgya mcho)
attached to a temple called Ch’ung Kuo Ssu, was responsible
for that edition. Prof. Holstein thinks and substantiates his
statement that for the two editions in 1692 and 1900 the same
blocks were used after making necessary corrections.

In India we have a few sets (perhape not more than five,
excluding a few sets more in monasteries in Darjeeling and
its neighbourhood) of the Tanjur and Kanjur, but all of them
are of the Narthang edition. We are not yet fortunate
enough to have an edition even of Derge (Sde. dge). It is
to be hoped that the University of Calcutta, which has
recently made arrangements for Tibetan and Chinese studies,
will gradually remove the want of the different editions of

these canonical works.
\VIDHUSHEKHARA BHATTACHARYA

Nawaruoi: Inleiding, Middel-Javaansche _Prozatekst,
Vertalins By M. Prijohoetomo; Groningen den Haag-
Batavia, 1934; 237 pp.

This is an excellent thesis for doctorate of the University
of Utrecht by the Javanese scholar Prijohoetomo, who pre-
pared his work under the distinguished guidance of Pro-
fessors Gonda, Juynboll and others. The great importance
of the Middle-Javanese text, so beautifully edited here along
with a Dutch translation, was firet emphasised by Dr. H.
N. van der Tuuk in JRAS., 1881 (pp. 53-54), and the
manuscripts of Nawaruci used by the latter were described
by Dr. J. Brandes. Juynboll later gave a short sketch of the
contents of the prose redaction along with illuminating notes.
The fourth scholar who paid attention to Nawaruci is Dr. R.
Goris, who published various details about it in his Bijdrage
tot de kennis der Oud-Javaansche en Balineesche theologie.

The contents of the work are as follows :—

At the order of Drona, Bhima leaves Gajahoya and goes
in search of magic water. On the way he kills two nagas,
who transpired to have been the spirits Sarasambaddha and

Google
NOTICES OF BOOKS 163

Harganandi respectively and moreover he encounters Indra
in disguise. Bhima continues his journey, meets the sage
Nawaruci and receives philosophical instruction from him.
At length Bhima reaches the source of magic water and
gives the water to Drona. Under the same Angkusprana,
Bhima practises austerities in Prthwijati, in course of which
he has to face various ordeals. Purified and strengthened
by these austerities, Bhima at last returns to Indraprastha
and is joyously received by his brothers.

The author of the present work has moreover proved that
Nawaruci owes much of its style and contents to the
renowned Arjuna-Vivaho; and regarding the date he says
that it was written between 1500 and 1619 A.D.

B. G.

Midden-Oost Borneo Expeditie 1925. Uitgave van het
Indisch Comite voor Wetenschaplijke Onderzoekingen.

This substantial volume of 423 pages contains the detailed
report of the Middle-East Borneo expedition undertaken in
1925 by a band of Dutch scholars who explored some very
imperfectly known parts of Borneo and gathered rich data
of great importance for the geography, ethnology, archeeo-
logy, etc., of this island. The archeological discoveries
have been briefly dealt with by Dr. Bosch at the end of the
volume in the chapter ‘Oudheiten in Koetei’. The author
at first describes the statues from Kombeng and divides them
into two groups: (1) the Saiva statues, such as Mahadeva,
Ganeéa, Nandiévara, etc., and (2) the Buddhistic atatues. The
Saiva statues have been built as a rule according to orthodox
Hindu Javanese style. On the Buddhist side the stdpas bear
the usual characteristics, where numerous variations of the
forms may be observed among the images. The relation
between the Saiva and the Buddhist deities, however,
remains obscure.

B, G.

Google
164 NOTICES OF BOOKS

Indo-Tibetiea, Vol. Ill: By Giuseppe Tucci, Reale
Academia d'Italia, Rome, 1935, 219 pp. +91 tables.

Prof. Tucci is an indefatigable worker in Tibetan
Buddhism. Previous to the publication of the present
volume, he had published two volumes, the results of his
first expedition to Tibet. in 1933 he had undertaken a
second expedition and the results have been embodied in
this elegantly printed volume.

The learned professor devotes himself in thie book to
the exposition of the artistic symbolism of the temples of
Western Tibet. Some of the temples, which the author
describes, had been written upon previously by other writers
e.g., by Francke and Shuttleworth; but the symbolism and
significance of their art treasures had not been so penetrat-
ingly guessed at by them. It is the temples of Spiti and
Kunavar that the author takes into consideration in the
present volume, particularly the ones to be found at Tabo,
Lhalung, Chang and Nako. The description and discussion
of gTsug lag K’an anc artistic representations occupy the
largest space. The author describes the general aspect of
the temple, external and internal, takes into consideration
the statues which represent a Tantric cycle of Vairocana,
mentions the Tibetan sources of the cycle of Sarvavid
Vairocana, presents us with an iconographical description of
the thirty-six deities of Kun rig, discusses the Indian sources
of the cycle of Kun rig and the mandala of Vairocana and
draws out symbolical significance of this mandala. In
describing the paintings in the temple of gSer K’an, the
author discusses the methods and significance of the Tantric
invocation and the element of terror in the Tantric School.
In writing upon the temple at Lhahing the author corrects
some of the identifications of Shuttleworth, while in treating
the temples at Chang, he gives us an idea of the Tibetan
infernal deities. The introduction contains interesting
observations on the geography of westem Tibet and traces
the diffusion of the various sects over the region. The
plates are all that could be desired in a book printed in the
country of the highest artistic tradition.

Google
NOTICES OF BOOKS 65s

The Royal Academy of Italy, which found the means for
the Professor to undertake his scientific expeditions to Tibet
and the cost of publication of the volumes, is to be
congratulated for the interest it is showing in Indian culture
and civilisation. Two Professors of Indology, Prof. Formichi
and the writer of the present volume, are members of this
august body and this is not only a distinction for the
professors themselves but for the country whose culture they
have made their fields of study. The Academy has
published, besides the volumes by Prof. Tucci, a magnificent
edition of the Mahabharata translated in Ottava rime by
the late-lamented Prof. Michele Kubekar. It was this
Professor's translation of some Vedic élokas that inspired
the famous verses of Italy's great poet Carducci to Aurora.
We hope that the interest shown by the Royal Academy
of Italy in India will continue unabated and that further
illuminating works on India will be published under its
distinguished patronage.

P.N. Roy

De Indische Cultuurstroom (The Wave of Indian
Culture), by Dr. A. J. Bernet-Kempers, The Hague, 1934.

This pamphlet of twenty odd pages contains a lecture
delivered by Dr. Kempers on assuming his office as a
“'Privaat docent’’ in the comparative culture-history of South-
East Asia at the University of Leyden, Holland, on the
7th of March, 1934.

The original is in Dutch. The following abstract may
prove useful to the English-knowing. student.

South-East Asia stands here for India proper along with
the frontier parts of Central Asia, Nepal, Tibet, Further
India, Indian Archipelago and Ceylon. Modern researches
have resulted in amplifying the data about the cultures of
these countries as well as in discovering the unifying factors.
While Indian history benefits largely by the study of the past
civilization of the said countries, a knowledge of Indian
culture ig indispensable for a real understanding of the

Google
166 NOTICES OF BOOKS

latter. Such modern designations as East India, Further
India, Indian Archipelago, Indo-China, Indonesia, Insulindia,
Serindia, India Minor, etc., simply indicate that the cultures
of those countries contain purely Indian elements: the
language contains a number of Sanskrit words, the art shows
affinities with that of India proper, the religion is either
Buddhism or Sivaism, the literature deals with subjects Lea
the Mahabharata, the Ramayana, etc.

Regarding the spread of Indian culture, the author
imagines the trade to be the first medium. Merchants
sailed abroad from the eastern coast of South India to
distant lands in the East. While transacting their business
in selling Indian goods and bringing home foreign products,
some of them settled there. In course of time they esta-
blished matrimonial relations with the indigenous people,
giving rise to what we may term the Indonesian race. This
new generation naturally inherited traditions of both the
lands, India proper and the native country. Meanwhile
there were other factors afoot, popularizing Indian ideals far
and wide in distant regions. Indian monarchs like
extended their conquests sometimes beyond the limits of
present-day India and were thus responsible for the expan-
sion of Indian culture. Asoka was perhaps the first to send
out missionaries for the propagation of Buddhism. In this
way mission has been another factor in the same process.
Later on, as during the Pala period in Bengal, monks as
well as other Hindus were impelled by the Muhammadan
invaders to quit home. They took refuge in other countries
and brought with them Indian customs to other peoples.

The author now inquires and himself answers. What
is properly ‘Indian culture’? There are certain characteristics
in art, literature, religion and society common to all the
countries concerned, that are indicated by the term ‘Indian
culture’. It does not in reality mean that it is something
born of or belonging to the Indian soil, for there was a time
when the very characteristics were a foreign import in India
or at least in certain parts of India. There were among the
natives like the Dravidians in India, and the new-comers

Google
NOTICES OF BOOKS 167

interchange, adoption, assimilation and modification of ideas
and customs. Even when they were further dissipated, they
underwent various changes. Still all along they have kept
something akin all over that distinguishes the culture of the
countries concerned from that of the rest of the world. It
is this something that is, for the sake of convenience,
entitled ‘Indian Culture’.

At the end, the author contests the suitability of the term
Greater India, adopted by recent writers to denote all the
countries that came into cultural contact with India proper.
His argument is that not all those countries at all times have
been influenced exclusively by Indian civilization.

B. Cu. Camiasra

Google
MISCELLANY

The Greater India Society along with other leamed ins-
titutions in and outside India has to mourn the loss which
Oriental scholarship has sustained by the deaths of two
eminent scholare—Gabriel Ferrand and Louis Finot. Obituary
notices of these savants are published below.

Thanks to the enlightened patronage of the Executive
Committee of the Post-Graduate Department of the Calcutta
University and especially to Mr. Syama Prasad Mookerjee, the
Vice-Chancellor of the University, the Greater India Society
has at last been able to deposit its collection of books, perio-
dicels, reports, etc., in one of the rooms of the Asutosh
Buildings of the University. It is earnestly to be hoped that
all serious students of the subject in Calcutta will now be
tempted to utilise this important collection.

The Greater India Society acknowledges with grateful
thanks the receipt of a donation of Rs. 500/- made this
year by the National Council of Education, Bengal, for
meeting its publication expenses. The grateful acknowledg-
ments of the Society are also due to its esteemed member
Dr. Narendranath Law for his grant of a generous donation
of Rs. 100/- for this year.

During the last half year a fresh number of learned
societies have signified their willingness to place the Journal
of the Society or its publications or both on their exchange-
lists. Among these special mention may be made of Institut
des Etudes Orientales de I'Académie des Sciences, USSR.,
Leningrad; Institut fir Vélkerkunde der Universitit Wien,
Vienna; Koninklijke Vereeniging Koloniaal Instituut,
Amsterdam; Koninklijk Instituut voor de Taal-, Land-, en
Volkerkunde van Nederlandsch-Indié, ‘s-Gravenhage. To
all these institutions the Society conveys its warmest thanks.

Google
OBITUARY NOTICE

GABRIEL FERRAND

It is not an unusual sight to discover some first-rate
scholars and technicians amongst the French group of
administrators. Paul Claudel, the eminent poet, n able
ambassador of France and author of La Connaissance de
PEst. Paul Painlevé was a great mathematician, George
Maspero, like his father Gaston Maspero, was an able officer
and a zealous historian. So Gabriel Ferrand was a Ministre
Plénipotentiaire in Persia before he won his fame as the
leading authority on Oriental geography in France. When
I reached Paris fifteen years ago, the illustrious Sinologist
Edouard Chavannes was just dead, but his friend and
colleague Professor Sylvain Lévi was carrying on the glo-
rious tradition of French orientalism through a series of
brilliant studies, It was in his home that I had the privilege
of being introduced to Mon. Ferrand, already retired from
diplomatic services and concentrating on his ecientific
studies. As a pupil of Prof. Lévi, | was warmly invited to
the apartments of Mon. Ferrand on the Rue Racini where
1 was surprised to find this ex-minister of the Republic
crowding his rooms with rare books and documents over
which he ever looked affectionately and wistfully. For the
World-War, as he said, interrupted the publication of so
many scientific studies, periodicals, etc., and his manuscript
pile was already heavy, crying for publication at an age
when the nation could ill afford money for intellectual pur-
suits, faced as it was, with grim economic crisis and pri-
vations. I found that Mon. Ferrand was famous already as
the author of Relations de voyages et texte geographiques
Arab Persans et Turks relatifs a I’Extréme-Orient, published
between 1913 and 1914. In 1918, Mon. George Cocdés
opened a new chapter in Greater Indian Studies with his
paper on the kingdom of Srivijaya (Le royaume de Cri-

"

Google
170 OBITUARY NOTICES

oijeya, BEFEO., 1918). That forgotten chapter of Hindu-
Javanese history soon engaged the attention of eminent
orientalists like Psof. Krom, Dr. Vogel and Prof. Blagden.
A veteran geographer that he was, Mon. Ferrand etarted
soon a thorough documentation on the historical, geographi-
cal and other references to the kingdom of Srivijaya and
published a splendid monograph: L’Empire Sumotranais
de Crivijaya (JA., July-October, 1922). It brought in a handy
volume all the pertinent texts in Chinese, Arabic, Persian,
etc., as well as the inscriptions (with translations) in Malaya,
Tamil and Sanskrit, not forgetting the famous 10th century
MS. of Nepal, mentioning “Suvamapure Crivijayapure
Lokanatha,” the value of which was first pointed out by
Prof. Alfred Foucher (vide Etude sur Ticonographie
bouddhique de I'Inde, Paris, 1900).

Mon. Ferrand was loved and admired by the world of
Orientalists as he served very ably in the capacity of
Honorary Secretary of the Société Asiatique of Paris which,
over a century ago (1826), honoured Raja Rammohun Roy,
the first Indian savant, with the title of the Associate. We
are also grateful to Mon. Ferrand for his valuable aid in
procuring the rare books and periodicals on Indology that
have found their place in the rich Library of our Purodha,
Dr. Rabindranath Tagore’s Visva Bharati at Santi-Niketan.

Katipas Nac

LOUIS FINOT

In the death of Mon. Louis Finot the world of French
scholarship has lost a brilliant representative and the family
of Indologists a most fruitful and loyal collaborator.

The thorough discipline of the Ecole des Chartres of the
University of Paris, combined with the initiation into
Sanskrit at the hand of no less a master than Sylvain Lévi,
made Finot a researcher of first-rate importance in the field
of orientalism. The French Schools of Athens (1850), of

Google
OBITUARY NOTICES am

Rome (1875) and of Cairo have already made the name of
French archeeologists respected all over the world. In 1867
Renan projected the Corpus Inscriptionum Semiticarum and
he was followed by James Darmesteter with hie exhaustive
studies on the Avesta which was introduced into Europe
about a century earlier (1771) by the Pioneer Orientalist
Anguetil Duperron. During the last quarter of the 19th
century when Louis Finot grew from his early college days
into a mature scholar taking his Doctor's degree with a
thesis on the Sanskrit text of Ratnapariked, Finot watched
his beloved professor Sylvain Lévi working with two masters
of French Indology Abel Bergaigne and Auguste Barth
editing the Sanskrit Inscriptions of Champa and Cambodge
and Emil Senart publishing his Inscriptions of Piyadasi.
Tn 1898 the great French archzeologist Michel Bréal
joined hands with Auguste Barth and Emil Senart in develop-
ing the project of a French School of the Far East after
the models of the French Schools of Athens, Rome and
Cairo, Originally Chandernagore was selected, but it could
not materialise owing to the financial problems, which were
solved by Paul Doumer, the Governor General of Indo-
China, which thus came to popeess that magnificent research-
centre and library of Hanoi: Ecole Francaise d’Extréme-
Orient.
As the firet Director of the Ecole, Mon. Finot rendered
services of the highest order. From the very firet number
of the now famous Bulletin, he had been contributing most
valuable articles and studies. The Religion of Champa
according to the monuments, Cambodian transcriptions,
Indo-Chinese studies, Origin of Indian colonisation,
Researches on Laotian literature; List of Khmér manuscripts,
etc., are some of his contributions; while in the domain of
Indo-Chinese epigraphy his able editing, transcriptions and
translations will ever keep his name shining in that line of
studies. 1 cherish with. pride and gratitude his Notes
d’Epigraphie Indo-Chinoise (1916) which he so kindly
presented to me, when I had the privilege of enjoying the
bospitality of this Ecole in Hanoi, which | visited on my

Google
W72 OBITUARY NOTICES

retum trip from China and Japan (1924). Not only his
learned colleagues like Mon, Parmentier, Mon, Aurousseau,
Mon. Demigville and others, but he afforded me the
greatest facilities in visiting the wonderful monuments of
Hindu art in Champ& and Cambodia: Nahtrang and
Phanrang, Angkor Thom, Angkor Vat and other historic
sites.

When we had the honour of inaugurating the GREATER
INDIA SocieTy in 1926, Men Finot wrote a highly sympathetic
note in the Bulletin (vide XXVII, pp. 504-7) and we got
his help and encouragement whenever we approeched him.
This policy of collaboration has been continued by Mon.
George Cordés, the learned successor to Mon. Finot as the
Director of the Ecole. When a member of our Academic
Council, Dr. R. C. Majumdar of the Dacca University
visited the Ecole in Hanoi, he was warmly received and his
volume on the Ancient Indian Colonies of the Far East,
Champa, Vol. I, was reviewed and his learned article on
the Palceography of the Inscriptions of Champa was
welcomed in the Bulletin.

A veteran Sanskrit as he was, Mon. Finot was a
great lover of the Buddha and Buddhism. He translated
many Buddhist texts and often contributed articles on Indo-
Chinese History and on Buddhiam to the pages of Indian
Journals like the Indian Higtorical Quarterly edited by our
esteemed colleague Dr. N. N. Law.

One of his recent articles was published in the latest issue
of the Bulletin on the former Governor-General of Indo-
China, Paul Doumer, who was assassinated as the President
of the Republic (May, 1932). It was M. Doumer who by
his Statute of 15th December, 1896, brought the Ecole
Francaise d’Extréme-Orient into existence and the tribute of
gratitude from ite first Director M. Finot was very appro-
priate.

As he was a facile writer in English, M. Finot wrote
highly thoughtful and suggestive reviews of current literature
on Indology published by Indian and non-Indian writers.
Courteous by nature ae he was, his courtesy never got the

Google
OBITUARY NOTICES 73

better of his critical spirit, and his co-workers in the field
ever profited by his frank and creative criticisms.

M. Finot was a sincere well-wisher and an inspiring
friend of the GREATER INDIA SocieTy and we hope and pray
that his soul would rest in peace. He lived a life which we
can adequately describe only in his own words, which he
applied to the late M. Emil Senart in his obituary notice:
“Une grande &me coneacreé sans réserve au service du vrai

et du bien.”
Kaupas Nac

Google
Select Contents of Oriental Journals

Journal Asiatique, t. CUXXIV, No. 4.

E. Benveniste—Notes sur un fragment sogdien: Of the three
principal Sogdian Buddhist fragments published by
M. Reichelt in his Die soghdischen Handschriftenreste
des Britischen Museums one has been identified by him
as a fragment of Vimalakirtti-nirdesasitra, while the
other two are provisionally called by him the Dhita text
and the Dhyana text. The last has been recognised by
S. Matsunami as a fragment of a Chinese siifra bearing
the title equivalent to Buddhadhydnasamadhisagara.
The writer gives a tr. of the Chinese text with notes,
notes on the Sogdian text, an appendix upon the Dhata
text, a second appendix containing notes of interpretation
or etymology of the other text and an index of Sogdian
words,

Ibld., t. OCXXV, No. 1.

L. Finot—Manugcripts Sanskrits de Sadhana’s retrouvés en
Chine: Text and tr. of several Sanskrit MSS. of
which the originals are deposited in the Buddhist
monastery of Cho-Kiang, along with introduction and
index. The MSS. consist of two parts, of which the first
part is the Hevajrasekaprakriyd written by an unknown
author, while the second consists of seven small manuals
of the Tantric liturgy, viz., (I) the Smaéanavidhi by Layi,
(2) the Bahyapajavidhi by Saévatavajra, (3) the Mantra-
patha, (4) the Hastapajavidhi by Saévatavajra, (5) the
Cakrasamvarabalividhi by the same and (6) the Vajra-
varahisadhana of Advayavajra. Of these Nos. 2, 4 and
6 have been edited by Dr. Benoytosh Bhattacharya in
the Sadhanamala,

Google
SELECT CONTENTS OF ORIENTAL JOURNALS ws

Wid, t. COXXV, No, 9.

A. H. Krappe—Charybde et Scylla aux Indes et en
Océanie: Traces the travel of the celebrated episode of
the Odyssey in India, Siam, Fiji and Samoa.

ZDMGQ., Band 18, Heft 2.

Otto Schrader—Indische Bezeihungen eines _nordischen
Fundes (with two plates): The National Museum of
Copenhagen contains a great silver bowl (69 cm. broad
and 42 cm. high), which was discovered in Northem
Jutland in 1891. Two reliefs of this bowl, according to
the writer, bear relation to Indian art. They are (1) a
Celtish goddess with elephants, with whom may be com-
pared the Indian Gajalakemi and (2) the Celtish horned
god Cemunnos having his parallel with the homed god
of Mohenjodaro seal described by Sir John Marshall in
his well-known monograph.

A. Ziesennis—Eine Wostufe des Saivasiddhanta in der all-
davanischen religtéeen Literatur: An Old-Javanese reli-
giove work called the Wrhaspatitattwa, probably written
after the 10th century A.D., contains an older form of
the Saivasiddhanta and belongs to the literature of the
Agamas, which are the sources of the Safsasiddhdnta,
This is sought to be proved by a comparison of parallel
concepts in the Javanese and Sanskrit works.

ULN.G.

‘Tijdschrift voor Indisohe Taal, Land-, en Volkenkunde,
‘Deel LXXV—Aflovering i (1935).

J. Gonda—The Javanese version of the Bhagavadgita: As
is well-known, there is an Old. nese version of the
Mahabharata, which is of primary importance for the
history of this great epic. “At present we possess the
texts of the first, fourth and sixth books of the great
epoe and a number of manuscripts of some other books.
‘These works date from about the year 1000 of our era.

Google
176 SELECT CONTENTS OF ORIENTAL JOURNALS

They are not a complete translation......... The Japanese
author has taken from his copy of the Sanskrit text at
various intervals a éloka or a part of a éloka.”” As for
the Bhagavadgita, “the author has given prose parts of
the subject-matter, which he considered as the most
important.” It is very important to note that many
portions of the Bhagavadgita, generally considered to be
interpolated by Garbe and others, have their counter-

parts in the Javanese version.
B.K.G.

Indian Culture, April, 1935.

L. Finot—Notes on the Simhalese tradition relating to
Buddha's relics:

Ibid, July 1985.

A. B. Keith—Plotinus and Indian Thought: Criticism of
Dr. Przyluski’s article in JGIS., Vol. 1, No. 1.

H. B, Sarkar—The Old-Javanese Lexicon: Contains a list
of Old-Javanese words with tr. and references as a
supplement to the lexicon of Drs. van der Tuuk and

Juynboll.

Djawa, 15 Jasrgang, Nos. 1 to 8, June 1935.

R, GorisHet Godadienstig Karakter der Balische Dorpsge-
meenschap: The author discusses in this interesting
article various Hindu aspecte of the religious practices
prevailing in the countryside of Bali. The gods as well
as the devils are divided into a heavenly and an earthly
group respectively.

W. van Oe—De Hindoe-Indonesische Kunst en het “Illu-
sionsme’’: “‘Illusionism"’ in art had its origin in
Greece about 500 B.C. and it goes hand in hand with
the ‘emancipated’ architecture. In fact it signifies the

Google
SELECT CONTENTS OF ORIENTAL JOURNALS 7

triumph of the individual over tradition." The author
of the present article has tried to explain and jnterpret
many common motifs in the Hindu-Javanese art from this
point of view.

'W. F. Stutterheim—Een Oud-Javaansche Bhima-cultus: In
this article the author discusses various aspects of
Old-Javanese Bhima-cult and the various ways in which
the deity concerned was represented in sculpture.

Ostasiatisohe Zeitschrift, N.F., 10 Jabrg. 6 heft, 1934.

A. C, Eastman—The Buddha's Victory over the Serpent, A
Gandharan version in the Brooklyn Museum: The
legend of the Buddha's triumph over the serpent in the
fire temple at Uruvilva, though one of the oldest legends
in the Buddhist canonical literature, appears but seven
times in art, including the three Gandharan versions of
the same. “Of special interest, therefore, is the
Brooklyn stone, which besides making the number of
stones seven (the fourth Gandharan version) of this
subject, has a special claim to attention in the flames
completely surrounding the Buddha.”

B. K. G.

Poedjangga Barve, Vol. 11, Nos. 1 & 2.

The leading article of No. 1, written in Malay, describes in
@ popular way some wayang characteristics after briefly
tracing the progress of researches in the domain of
Indonesian languages.

In the mededeeling No. XXXVI, afdeeling volkenkunde no. 7
of the ROYAL COLONIAL INSTITUTE at Amsterdam,
Dr. van Naerssen has published in Bijlage A two Old-
Javarese inscriptions belonging to the time of Balitung.
Tt has been stated that the proceeds to the god of the
cloister at Hujung galuh and those of the other three
places shall go to the god of the cloister at Dalinan.
More interesting is the reference to the Ramayana,
Bhimakumara and Kicaka in Pl. Il, and these suggest

2

Google
178 SELECT CONTENTS OF ORIENTAL JOURNALS

that the Rama-saga and some figures of the Mahabharata
were known in Java in the first decade of the tenth
century A.D. That the wayang was also represented
in social functions of this period is also proved by Pl. Il.

H. B.S.

Tii@sohrift Voor indisohe Task, Lan, on Volkerkande,
Deel LXXIV, Aflev. Sand 4, 1984.

W. F. SrurterHeim.—De Leidsche Bhairava en Tjandi B van
Singasari (pp. 441-476)—The writer controverts the state-
ments of previous authorities and concludes that the
Bhairava statue under discussion originally belonged to
the Chandi B, and not to Chandi A, of Singasari.

A. StEINMANN.—De op de Boroboedoer ofgebeelde planten-
werld (pp. 581-612). A profusely illustrated paper
offering botanical identification, of the various vegetation
depicted on the Barabudur Stipa sculptures.

S. R. BALAsuBRAHMAIN.—The Tisai Ayirattaindrruoar and the
Municahndai Record (A Great Tamil Merchant Guild of
Southern India) (pp. 613-618)—Several records of South
India from A.D. 1033 onwards make mention of the said
Guild and its activities. One of the records comes from
Sumatra.

B.C.

Bulletin de l'Eoole Francalee d’Extreme-Orient, t. XXXII, 1033.

P. vAN STEIN CALLENFELS.—Le marriage de Draupadi,
(pp. 1-9}—-Two different opinions prevail about the
identification of bas-relief B. 214 on Ankor Vat, viz., that
it represents the svayamuara of Sita (Coedée and
Przyluski) and that it stands for the svayamvara of
Draupadi (Finot). Consideration of Javanese and Malay
redactions of Draupadi'’s svayomvara makes it clear that
the last view is correct.

Google
SBLECT CONTENTS OF ORIENTAL JOURNALS 7

G. Cepes.—Ankor Vat, temple ou tombeau? (pp. 303-9)
Disputes M. Przyluski's theory that Ankor Vat was
originally not a temple but a tomb. Suggests, in conclu-
sion, that Dr, Bosch’s expression ‘funerary temple’ might
obtain M. Przyluski's approval.

V. Grousew.—Le Phnom Bakhén et la ville de Yasouarman
—(pp. 319-44)—Report of an archeological mission to
Ankor (August-November 1932). Results of the archzeo-
logical exploration confirm the hypothesis framed by the
author in 1931 that the Phnom Bakhéi represents the
Central Mount of Yasodharapura, the city built by Yaso-
varman towards the close or the ninth century.

P. Mus.—Cultes indiens et indigénes au Champa, (pp.
367-410)—Preface—Pre-Aryan India and Asia of the
monsoons—Vedic religion and Brahmanism—The Hindu
aynthesis—The actual forms of the Cham culte—the kut
and the linga—survival and profoundity of Indian
influence in Champa. The author's conclusion ie that
the Indian civilizers brought their Cham pupils a much
more beautiful and a much more elaborate expression of

their common sentiments,
UNG.

Journal Asiatique, t. CCKXIV, No. 2 Avril-Juin 1934.

J. Fitizoat.—La Medicine Indienne et l'expansion bouddhique
en Extréme Orient—Points out how Indian medicine
and Buddhism have been diffused across Asia and have
spread abroad the prestige of Indian civilisation.

UNG.

Indian Culture, July 1934.

R. C. Majunpar.—Indo-Javanese Literature—Containe sur-
vey of principal works belonging to the first two divisions
of this literature, viz., Old-Japanese and Middle-Javanese,
the last division (viz., New-Javanese) being left out as it

really falls outside the Hindu period in Java.

Google
10 SELECT CONTENTS OF ORIENTAL JOURNALS

Ibid., October 1934.

Nitar Ranjan Ray.—Mahayanist and Tantric Literature in
Burma—Inscriptions from Pagan dated 804 B.E.=1442
A.D. mention 295 texts as the object of gift to a monas-
tery. Among these three are identified as definitely
Tantric and at least four are traced to Mahayanist
Sanskrit Literature.

Himansu BHUSAN SARKAR.—Siva-Buddha in Old-Javanese
records: The terms Siva-sogata and Sogata-Mahesvara
in two Javanese inscriptions have been translated as
Sivaites and Buddhists. The correct translation is Saiva-
sogata, Evidence of Siva-Buddha cults in Java is given
by way of corroboration.

U.N.G.

Google
BOOKS RECEIVED

THe GREATER INDIA Society acknowledges with thanks the

10.

12.

13.

4.

receipt of the following books, periodicals, reports,
pamphlets, etc., during the last six months :—

De Indische Cultuurstroom: By A. J. Bernet Kempers,
Leiden 1934.

The Bronzes of Nalanda and Hindu-Javanese Art: By
A. J. Bernet Kempers, Leiden 1933.

On a Tibetan text translated into Sanskrit under Ch’ien

Kung and into Chinese under Tao Kuang: By Baron
A. von Staél-Holstein, Peiping 1932.

A Commentary to the Kasyapaparivarta: By Baron A.
von Staél-Holstein, Peiping 1934.

On two recent reconstructions of a Sanskrit hymn: By
Baron A. von Staél-Holstein, Peiping 1934.

On a Peking edition of the Tibetan Kanjur: By Baron
A. von Staél-Holstejn, Peiping 1935.

Annual Report for 1934 of the Division of Intercourse
and Education (Carnegie Endowment for International
Peace): By Nicholas Murray Butler, New York 1935.

Indo-Tibetica Ill, Part 1, Spiti and Kunvar: By
Giuseppe Tucci, Rome 1935.

Indian Culture, April and July, 1935, Calcutta.
Hayagriva (The Mantrayanic Aspect of Horse-cult in
China and Japan): By R. H. van Gulik, Leiden 1935.
Nawaruci (inleiding Middel-Javaansche Prozatekst): By
M. Prijohoetomo, The Hague 1934.

Midden-Oost Borneo Expedite 1925 (Uitgave van het
Indiech Comite voor Wetenschappenklijke Onder-
zoekingen): Weltevreden.

Sculptures Indiennes et Indochinoise du Collection von
der Heydt: By Pierre Dupont, Amsterdam.
Poedjangga Baroe, Vol. Il, Nos. | & 2, Batavia,

Google
182
15.

6.

17,

18.

19,

2

BRR BP BE

BOOKS RECEIVED

The India thet is India: By Elizabeth Sharpe,
London 1934.

Book of Ram (Bible of India): By Mahatma Tulsidis,
London 1932.

Teachings from the Bhagawadgita: By Hari Prasad
Shastri, London 1935.

A New Approach to the Vedas: By A. K.
Coomaraswamy, London 1933.

Some Aspects of Hindu Medical Treatment: By
Dorothea Chaplain, London 1930.

Djawa, Vols. I, No. 3; Il; Ill; 1V, No. 4; V, Nos. 1, 2,
5, 6; VI, Now. 2, 4, 5, 6; Vil, Nos. 3, 4, 5, 6; VIII,
Noe. 3, 4, 5, 6; IX, Nos. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6; X; XI; XIl;
XII; XIV; XV, Nos. | to 3; Batavia.

. Two copies of reprints of ‘Bockbespreking’ from Djawa,

XV, Nos. June, 1935.

Indian Historical Quarterly, Vol, XI, Noe. 1, 2; Calcutta.
Ostasiatische Zeitschrift, N.F., 10 Jabrg., 11 Jahrg., 1/2
heft, Berlin.

The Buddha Prabha, Vol. 3, No. 2, Bombay.

Eleven volumes of Sun Yat Sen University Bulletin of
Inatitute of History and Language (in Chinese), Canton.

The Indian, Vol. II, No. 3, London.
The Studente’ Welfare, Vol. 1, No. 2, Agra.

Koninklijk Bataviaasch Genootschap van Kunsten en
Wetenachappen Jaarbock II, 1934, Batavia.

29. Tijdschrift voor Indische Taal-, Land-, en Volkenkunde :

30.

31.

32.

Deel LXXV, Af. 1, 2 and 3, Bat
A Much-Needed Prayer: By Nicholas Murray Butler,
New York 1935.

The Javanese version of the Bhagavadgita: By J.
Gonda, Batavia 1935.

The Rg-Veda as Land-Néma Book: By A. K.
Coomfraswamy, Londas 1935.

Google
33.

34.

35.

BOOKS RECEIVED 183

Varendra Resgarch Society's Monographs, No. 6,
March, 1935, Rajshahi.

Gids in Het Volkerkundig Museum, Koninklitk
Vereeniging Koloniaal Instituut; XIII—De Indianen en
Boschnegers van Suriname: door B. M. Goslings,
Amsterdam.

Aarwinsten op Ethnografisch en Anthropologisch gebied
van de afdeeling Volkenkunde van het Koloniaal
Instituut, 1931; 1932; 1933; and 1934., Amsterdam.

Google
JOURNAL OF THE GREATER INDIA SOCIETY
SELECT OPINIONS OF SCHOLARS

Dr. N. J. KRom (Leiden) :-—
“I have much pleasure in... ...congratulating you

as the editor of so sound a volume containing new. and

interesting information. May it be the firet of a long series,

maintaining the same high standard.””

Dr. Georce Oepes (Hanoi) :—

“| have read with much interest the first issue of the
Journal of the Greater India Society, which contains valuable
papers by prominent scholars.
Dr. G. Tuoct (Rome) :—

“Your Journal is becoming one of the leading reviews.”
Dr. Lupwic BacHHOFER (Munich) :—

“A careful study has proved the serious and surely
scientific character of the Journal.”

Dr. W. Percevat Yetts (London) :—

“I have read with much pleasure and profit the
Journal... ”
Dr. WaLrer LiEBENTHAL (Peiping) :—

“I certainly appreciate the value of your purposes and
Dr. R. O, Winstept (Johore):—

“Your excellent Journal.”
S, PaRANAVITANA, Eso. (Colombo) :—

“| have read the Journal with much interest and appre-
ciation. It serves a very useful purpose in that it brings the
results of the important researches carried on by the French
and Dutch savants to the notice of those students who cannot
read those contributions in the original French and German.”
Dr. A. J. BerNeT Kempers (Voorburg):—

“The contents have greatly interested me.
Dr. F. D, K. Bosc (Batavia) :—

.the last issues of the Journal
“ ‘highly interesting things on the Archipelago, proving
to what extent Hindu-Javanese and Sumatran history and
archeology may profit. in the future, from the experience
and knowledge of Indian scholare..

Google
Journal of the Greater India Society

A six-monthly Journal devoted to the investigation of Indian
cultural influences abroad and specially in Eastern and
South-Eastern Asia.

Contents of Vol. II, No. 1, 1935.

Obermiller—A Sanskrit MS. from Tibet; Rs Ce Majumdar—
Decline and fall of the Sailendras; J. Przyluski_The
Sailendravaméa; D. P. Ghosh—Migration of Indian Deco-
ative Motife; V. Bhattacharya—A Sanskrit Treatise by
a Tibetan author; H. B. Sarkar—An Old-, Javanese
Inscription from Penampihan of the Saka year 1191;

Ch. Chhabra——Identification of Sri Visnuvarman of the
Perak Seel; Ibid-—The Celebes Bronze Buddha; Book-
reviews; Miscellany etc.

Published twice a year in January and in July.

Annual subscription Rs. 4/- (Rupees four) or eight
shillings only exclusive of postage: Agents outside India:
Messrs. Luzac & Co., 46, Great Russell Street, London, W.C. 1.

Indian Influences on the Literature of Java and Ball
By Himansu Bhusan Sarkar, M.A.
Research Scholar in History, Dacca University.
(Greater India Studies No. I.)

This work is based on an exhaustive study of the Old-Javanese
literature as made available through the researches of a host of Dutch
scholars. It presents a comprehensive survey of different branches of
the literature of Old Java, both sacred and profane, and throws new
light on a number of points.

CONTENTS
Crater Pac
1 Barly, Indo-Javanese contact and the dialects of the
country : . 3
11, Sucred Literatire—(A) the Ved
(BY the Brahimindapurd
red Literature, contd.—Some other works of
winie character... ae)
IV. Sacred Literatura, concluded.—the Siiryan
Mantrrs and charms
Y. The Xgama or Dhurmasdstras of Indonesia
VI. Wariga and connected literature
IL. Itilidsa or Epic works—The Ian.
I. Ititasa or Epic works, contd.
IX. Utihisa or Epie works, contd.—Rami
recensions in stone ‘texts
X. Itihisa or Bpie works, contd.—the Rami;
of stories in Kari.
Mihisa or Epic works, contd.—the Mahabharata
Itihisa or Bpic works, concluded—
‘The Muhabharutu-cycle of stories
The Rpic Literature and Waytng stories
Miscellaneous works of Java and Bali
Legends and romances of Java and Bali
The Tantri Kimandaka and other beast-fables
Inscriptions and Historical Literature
Conclusion a. .
Additional Notes
Index 7
Addenda et Carrigenda

Price Rupses Six only: Postage extra:
21, Badurbagan Row, The Honorary Secretary
Calcutta. GREATER INDIA SOCIETY.

MI. Se

ayana Ke

Google
1
2
3.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE

Greater India Society

BULLETIN

Greater india—Dy Dr. Kalidas Nag, (to be re-issued),
India and China—liy Dr. Prabodh Chandra Bagehi (ty he re-issued),
Indian Culture in Java and Sumatra—Revised and enlarged edition. Part
‘Yext. By Dr. B. R. Chatterji, Part II Inscriptions. By Dr.
Chakravarti and Dr. B. R. Chatterjee Rs. 2.
India and Comtral Asia—ly Dr. N. P. Chakravarti (fy be re-issued),
Ancient Indian Culture in Afghanistan—By Dr. U. N. Ghoshal

Re. 1.

A

Anolent Indian Colonies in the Far East—Vol. I. CHAMPA—By Dr. &.
©. Majumdar Rs. 15,
Hindu Law and Custom—(Only authorized English translation of Dr.
Julius Jolly's Recht und Sitte)—By Dr. B. K. Ghosh. 8. 108
Soolal Life in Ancient tndia—<studies in Vi Kamasiitra—B
Prof. H.C. Chakladar. Rs. 4.
Pratima Laksanam (xanskrit and Tibetan)—By Prof. P. N. Bose.

Rs. 4
Indian Literature in China and the Far East—By Prof. P, K. Mukher

Rs. 3.

GREATER INDIA STUDI

Indian influences on the Literature of Java and Bally Himansu
Bhusan Sarkar, M.A, Rs,

Travels of Tibetan Pilgrims to the Swat Valley—By Dr. Giuseppe Tucei
(To be undertaken shortly).

OTHER PUBLICATIONS

Indian Colony of Slam—By Prof. P. N. Bose, Rs 38,
FER AA (Hindi Edition of Bulletin No,
4BI Sas (Bengali Kdition of Bulletin N

2) (To be resissned),
1) Re. 1,

To te had of the GREATER INDIA SOCIETY'S Office
21 BADURBAGAN ROW, P.O. AMHERST STREET,

CALCUTTA

Prin and Publisheal by Sj. Jogesh Chandra Narkhel, at the Calcutta Oriental

9, ‘can Ghose La 13" 9 3

Go get
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
GRADUATE LIBRARY

DATE DUE

. 0 ty \90.

Google

t fe) UNIV

SITY OF MICHIGAN

