GREATER INDIA SOCIETY
VOL. X¥

1956.

Original
OF

Uiivasitvof
chia
Libjiites.

Go es
Original from

Digitized by Google UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
Original from

Digitized by Google ° UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
Original from
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

JOURNAL

OF THE
GREATER INDIA SOCIETY
Vol. XV 1986 No. 1

The Ancient Burma Road—a Legend?
By Dr. Watter LigpenTHAL

The Burma Road which has become famous during the war leads
from Kunming, capital of Yiinnan, west through Hsia-kuan (a village
on the southern end of the Erh-hai, about ten miles south of Tali)
to Pao-shan (ancient Yung-ch’ang), crosses the Burmese frontier at
Wanting, then goes south to Lashio and ends in Rangoon. After the
occupation of Lower Burma by the Japanese troups a short-cut was
built in 1942, starting in Ledo (in north-east Assam, south of Sadiya),
leading actoss the Patkai Range and through the Hukwang valley to
Mogaung, Myitkins, Bhamo, and joining the Burma road when still
on the Burmese side. This was called the Ledo Road. The prewar
track of the Burma road followed the new track up to Paoshan then
went west to T’eng-ch’ung (later T’eng-yiich, Moulmein) before it
turned southwest and south to anciene Pagan and Prome (Sriksetra).
How ancient was this road? P. Pelliot in a famous article? has believed
to be able to date its existence back to the reign of Wu-ti (140-87
B.C.) and this has generally been accepted.*

1 Deux itinéraires de Chine en Inde & la fin du Vile siécle. Bulletin de
Uécole francaise d’ Extréme-Orient IV (1904) p. 142-3.

2 Cf, A. Herrmann: Atlas of China (Harvard-Yenching Institute
Monograph Series vol. 1), Cambridge 1935, maps 23, 27,28; O. Franke:
Geschichte des chinesischen Reichés, Berlin 1930 foll., I 22 (““uralter Weg”), 340,
4x0 (“zur Han Zeit lingst bekannter Weg durch Birma and Yiinnan”); G.
Cocdés: Les états bindowisés d’Indochine et d'Indonésie, Paris 1948, p. 108, “Il
semble que des le Ille siecle les Chinois soient entrés en contact par le Yun-nan

Google
2 The Ancient Burma Road—a Legend

I shall in this paper tty to prove that Pelliot was searching in
the wrong direction. The ancient Burma Road was much less ancient
than he thought. Let us consider his arguments one by one.

The route through Burma
(1) “In the third century A.D. the Wei-liv mentions a route
leading from Ta-ts’in to China through Yung-ch’ang in Yiinnan”.
The text says:? ‘One reaches Ta-tsin either overland following the
route north of the sea (i.e. via Tun-huang) or along (the coast of) the
(Chinese) sea southwards. (Thus one may) catty on trade with the
Barbarians (living) beyond the seven chiin of Chiao-chih. There
exists another sea route (which begins as overland route). It leads
through I-chou and Yung-ch’ang—and that is why foreign goods are
exported from Yung-ch'ang. Former generations reported only the
existence of the sea route because they did not know about che
overland route”. The town of Yung-ch’ang was founded 745 A.D.,
thus it is spoken here of the province of Yung-ch'ang the frontiers of
which were very ill-defined. According to this note, it must, in the
third century, have included a track between Shu and Chiao (modern
Szechuan and Hanoi). I wonder what relation this note has to the
Burma Road.
(2): “The first incontestable contacts between China and Asia

via Burma date from the beginning of the second century A.D. when
the king Yung-yu-tiao reigned in the country of Shan. This prince
had received a kind of Imperial investiture in 97, and in 120 he sent
to the Emperor musicians and jugglers from Ta-ts'in” (Pelliot ibid).
This refers to two embassies which came to the court in the years
mentioned. Another embassy of Shan appeared 132.4 The Chinese

avec le royaume de P'iao, correspondant en gros avec le bassin de I'lrawadi. Son
‘nom est la transcription chinoise du mot Pyu”.

3 My translation, Pelliot J.c. quotes F, Hirth: China and the Roman
Orient, p. 74. As this book is not available to me I quote from the original
Chinese, San-kuo chib, ch. 30 p. 31a/b, reading sbib for pei with the Ti-li
Kao-cheng.

4 CE. How Han-sbu (T’ung-wen pan) ch, 116 p. 20a; ibid. ch. 6 p. 72.
The first two quotations occur in the chapter on the Ai-lo who were spread all
over Nan-chao. But they were not only there,

Google
The Ancient Burma Road—a Legend 3

character for “shan” now stands for “t'ai”, a race eather than a nation.
‘A Shan kingdom did not exist in the Burma of 120 A.D. Pelliot’s
identification of Shan with Burma is obviously impossible. Besides it
is unnecessary as Shan kingdoms existed also in the lower valley of the
lower Mekong and central Annam. At the end of the second century
they organized themselves into che kingdom of the Lin-i. But che Lin-i
had predecessors. One of these might have ruled the Shan kingdom
which offered tribute in 97 and later.*

(3) “Is it not possible that...KaSyapa Mitafga and Chu Falan
had come by way of,the upper Irawaddy and Yiinnan?” This legend
Lhave deale with in other papers.*

(4) In the second century B.C. under Emperor Wu-ti (140-87)
when Chang Ch'ien was in Bactria, “he had been astonished to find
there bamboos and woven materials originating in the Chinese provinces
now known under the names of Yiinnan and Szechuan; he asked the
natives how they procured these goods; he heard of the existence of
the rich and powerful country of Shen-tu (India)...””” Pelliot asks :
from where else chan by way of Burma could these products of the
south-west of China be transported to the borders of India?

Thave compared this passage with the original." The text says
that the bamboo-sticks were from Chiung, a town not far from I, and
the material from Shu. Both towns were in Szechuan. We shall see
below that from Shu a very important route started which later led to
Lhasa and Assam. At that time there can have been no organized
route, but then there was also no organized resistance. Is it possible

5, Pelliot (2c, p. 266) translates “the kingdom of Yeh-tiao (Java?) beyond
the frontiers of Jih-nan and the kingdom of Shan sent an embassy” (my
English), but to me it seems more correct to read ‘the kingdoms of Yeb-tiao
and of Shan beyond the frontiers of Jib-nan”, Jih-nan was the last province
south of Chiao-chih, about the present Quang-binh,

6 CE, Sino-Indian Studies I, 3/4 (1949) pp. 127-130 and V, 1 (1955)
pp. 8-11.

7 Quoted from Chavannes: Mémoires bistoriques, t. 1 pp. 72-73.

8 CE. Shib-cbi, ch. 123 p. 7b.

9 Chang Ch'ten describes this route as easy (ibid. p. 81),

Google
4 The Ancient Burma Road—a Legend

that merchants made the enormous turn through Burma instead of
using the easy route leading through Tiber?

(5) The name of P'iao."®

A number of Burmese words occur in a little changed form in the
language of Nan-chao. Chinese p'iao is Burmese pyiis p'iao-bsin
Burmese pyi-shin; chao may be a Burmese sao (shao);"* a mythical
ruler of Nan-chao, P’iao-chiu-ti, and his son Ti-meng-chiu, reappear
in the myths of Burmese Chronicles.? As the earliest of these
Chronicles dates from the 15th century’ and the legend of ASoka’s
sons and connected myths was current in Nanchao already around
900, it seems probable that all the legendary material which Pelliot
believed to have travelled from Burma to Yiinnan in very ancient
times, actually went the opposite way round many centuries later than
he thought,

We must keep in mind that the Chinese by the term of p’iao
referred toa racial not to a political unit. The P'iao were tribes
which Hatvey calls TibetoBurmans. “Doubtless they came down
the great rivers.”"* There is nothing strange in the fact that the
language and customs of the Burmese and Nan-chao show similarity.
Yet the tribes of P’iao must be distinguished from the kingdom of
P'izo. What did the Chinese understand by this term? In the Nan-
chao yeh sbib it is used to designate a kingdom lying beyond the
southern frontiers of Nan-chao,® Was it located in the modern Laos?
Or where else?*

(6) Sanskrit titles of the Nan-chao rulers.

In A.D. 752 the ruler of Tibet sent a message of friendship to Ko-
lo-feng, king of Nan-chao, with a seal on which he was titled “Emper-
ot of the East”, tung-ti (udaya-raja?).7 In 784 his successor I-mu-hsin

10 Pelliot he. p. 165. 11 Ibid. p. 168, 12 Ibid, p. 166.

13 G,E, Harvey: Outline of Burmese History, London 1947, p. 9-

14 Harvey he, p. 1.

15 C,Sainson: Histoire particuliére dw Nan-tchao, Patis 1904, p. 50. 1
have compared the French text with a Chinese blockprint from Kunming,

16 Without an adequate Chinese library and maps I must leave the in-
vestigation of this important problem to other scholars,

17 Pelliot, pp. 153, 162 £,, cf, Sainson he. p. 44, 48.

Google
The Ancient Burma Road—a Legend 5

adopted the title of “King of the East of che Sun”."* elliot thought
that tung is same as Sanskrit wdaya which is also found in the titles of
Burmese kings in the form of udi—(udi-bbva). But, since these titles
are of modern date, my argument of the preceding paragraph is again
valid. It is, however, interesting in another respect to know that
Sanskrit titles were bestowed upon the Nan-chao rulers. (See below
s.v. “routes from Tibet”)

(7) “That the princes of Nan-chao had actually crossed repeatedly
the western frontiers of Yiinnan and played an important rdle in the
affaits of Upper Burma, the texts do not permit us to doubt. After
his victory of 754 Ko-lo-feng....sent his armies against the Hsiin-ch’uan
who occupied the valleys of the Upper Yangtse and Upper Irawaddy,
and against the kingdom of the PYiao, that is Burma.”** This state-
ment is based on notes found in the Chinese Historical Annals which
again rely on a Nan-chao inscription of A.D. 766.%° This inscription
reads: “Further, there were the Hsiin-ch’uan. (A route) leads south
to the PYoshai; to the west they are neat to the Ta-ts'in.™
Since the origin of the world they have never been touched by civilisa-
tion; since Fuchsi they have never been invaded by an army. The
king wished to reform these people by giving them clothes and caps,
rites and justice...”

There is no indication that these naked savages belonged to the
mighty kingdom of the Vikrama dynasty which at that time represen-
ted Burma, There is also no mention of the name of Burma.
Nothing is said about Ko lo-feng sending “this armies against the king-

18 I should rather translate “King of the Sunrise”, siryodaya raja.

19. Pelliot Ic. p. 155 n. 6, 156 n. 1.

20. CE Man-shu ch, 10 1b; Hsin T’ang-shu ch, 222 B ab (2). Chavannes :
“Une inscription du royaume de Nan-tchao”. Journal Asiatique, Nov. Dec.
1900, PP. 430-433-

21 Pelliot explains “Roman Orient «Hess: Journal of the American
Or. Soc, XXXII p. 193 f “Keesiphon", He is followed by O, Franke hc.
III p. 209, Both explanations do not fit here, Were these people not rather
identical with the Brahmins from Ta-ts'in, mentioned in the second of
Pelliot’s itineraties (see below p. 11) who lived between the Chindwin and
Kamariipa? 22. Chavannes I. p. 3942 7.

Google
6 The Ancient Burma Road—a Legend

dom of the Piao”. We read chat going south the ocean is teached.”*
This is undoubtedly interesting, for it is the oldest evidence we pos-
sess that Nan-chao (not the Chinese) knew of that fact. Nothing
else can be deduced from this inscription.

(8) The itinerary of Chia Tan, written between 785 and 805,
is offered by Pelliot as a proof that the Chinese at that time knew of a
route through Burma to the Bay of Bengal. After what we have said
before (7), this is in itself not impossible, but ie is strange that chis
important fact is not mentioned by che author. It seems also strange
that the traveller, in order to reach the terminus of Kalinga, goes first
1000 li down to Prome, then 1600 li up to Pragjyotishpur or Haru-
peavara, and down again, instead of travelling to his destination in a
couple of days by boat. None of the places which are touched in the
Itinerary, lying beyond the Burmese frontier, have been identified by
Pelliot with a sufficient degree of certainty. Ie may well be that this
text has to be interpreted quite differently.

We may now ask when the Burma road was open at all.

In the culcural history of Nan-chao the ninth century is of
vital importance. Under Shen-feng-yu (823-859) she experienced
an amazing outburst of building and other civilising activity.%¢
Responsible for this development was not the king but his Major
domus Wang Ts'o-tien. He ordered the pagodas to be erected by an
architect from Ch’ang-an, he waged a minor war against the Chinese
commander of Szechuan, pushed into Annam, and in 858 sent an
expedition under Tuan Tsung-pang into Burma. Tuan reported a
victory over the Ceylonese (Talaing?), gained on behalf of his allies,
the rulers of Prome (?), returned with a booty of golden Buddha
statues, and murdered Wang Ts'o-tien. This was at least a definite
proof that lower Burma could be reached from Yiinnan I do not
doubt that people wene chere before that date, but 1 know of no
docomentaty evidence. The Indians thought that lower Burma was
an island, This is implied in the name of Suvarna-duips.’* The
Chinese knew no better. Harvey says that Upper Burma received no

23 P'o-bai gives no meaning. I propose to read “pin bai".
24 CE. Inscriptions I p. 13 £. (below note 27).
25 Dvipa might be a peninsula but I do not think this is suggested here.

Google
The Ancient Burma Road—a Legend 7

civilisation from China.** Chang Ch’ien correctly surmised that India
was west of Shu (Szechuan plus a part of Yiinnan). People must have
thought that it began immediately behind the Erh-ho (the region of
Tali); so they called Shen-tu (India) what lay west of Tali. But
around 800 A.D. they must have heard from embassies"? that the
kingdom of lower Burma was inhabited by people who called. them-
selves Pyii as did those in the west of Yiinnan, and after 791 they
may have heard from the Nan-chao of the new-discovered route to the
ocean.
Note on early Indian influence in Nan-chao.

Thave published many Sanskrit

inscriptions, discovered in Yiin-
nan‘? and am publishing here one more (Figure 1) for the convenience
of those readers who wish to te-investingate my contention that this
script is identical with that written in Nalanda and Kamariipa during
the ninth century." Even orthographical peculiarities, characteristic of
the wood-cuts with which the bricks of the Tali pagodas were stamped,
re-occur in inscriptions of Kamariipa.”” In Burma, Kadamba and later
Telugu was written.*® This makes us wonder whether the Yiinnan
script was not imported from Magadha via Assam instead of via the
Burma route.

Besides, at least one of the Yiinnan inscriptions is of the eighth
century;*! then che Burma road was not yet open. Stone-figures of

26 Le. p.8.

27 Cf, W, Liebenthal: Sanskrit Inscriptions from Yunnan I (and the Dates
of Foundation of the Main Pagodas in that Province), Monumenta Serica XII,
(1947); A Sanskrit Inscription from Yunnan, -Indian-Studies WI. 1, 2
(1947); Sanskrit Inscriptions from Yuinnan II. Ibid. V. 1 (1955)-

28 CE Mémoirs of the Archaeological Survey of India No. 66, Plate Xe
(an undated pratasti from Nalanda); Plate XI £, g (both from the end of the ninth
century); also the seals, reproduced on pp. 108-111. Notice the similarity of
arrangement and content on seal No. 20 and others; compare the circular in-
scriptian on Plate XI with that published here,

29 Note on the published samples that the s and the § are not distin-
guished. The same peculiarity is found on the Tezpur rock inscription, cf.
Mahamahopadhyaya Hara Prasad Shastri in JBORS, III (1917), p. 509.

30 Harvey, lic. p. 2,

31 Inscriptions I Plate 1, cf. Inscriptions II n, 38.

Google
8 The Ancient Burma Road—a Legend

Nan-chao ancestors, found norch of Tali, seem to suggest Central Indian
influence earlier than Ko-lo-feng (748-778)°2 And finally, an
Indian community existed in Nan-chao in the first half of the ninth
century which must have been there some time before.

In the first year of the reign of Ch’tian-feng-yu (824) “a priest
from the West, called Candragupta,* founded Yiian-hua-ssu (a
monastery) in Ho-ch'ing (four days journey north-east of Tali),"*
He had performed a miracle in Ho-ch’ing before’* and performed
another one in Tali twenty three years later. If he was fifty years
old when he performed the first miracle, he could have ctossed
the Yangtse over the Iron Bridge in the age of about twenty, of he
might have come later via modern Wei-hsi, meeting a similar fate
as the Ch’ing dynasty officer mentioned below.**

We are completely unaware of che place, wherefrom came another
Western party. A man, called Li “with shaggy eyebrows", also “the
wise”, said to have hailed from India, played some role in the construc-
tion of Ch’ung-sheng ssu, a monastery with two small and a big pagoda
outside the walled town of Tali. The construction of the big pagoda
and most of the other buildings was begun in A.D. 833,°% But
other parts of the monastery and perhaps the two small pagodas are
of an earlier date. Their style seems to justify the conclusion that
they were built by an Indian architect. As this fact is not yet gener-
ally acknowledged, I am publishing a corner-decoration, consisting of
pots (gbata) for comparison (Figure 2).

So we know that Indian influence reached Nan-chao about half a
century before the Burma road was open. Which way did this
influence travel?

32 Inscriptions IE p. 11.

33 This name is common in Central India, 34 Sainson Le. p. 61.

35 Sainson’s translation is not correct. I translate again, “Ho-ch’ ing was
inundated. (Candragupta) pointed with his stick to the eastern corner (of the
inundation) and made the water dry off. He got a piece of camphor wood (that
lay) in the water, carved a Buddha and blessed it. It radiated far and near.
It was called ‘the living Buddha’.’

36 See below “Routes through Tibet”.

37 Inscriptions I pp, 6-16; II p. 19.

Google
The Ancient Burma Road—a Legend 9

The tsang-k'o route

E. Chavannes, in his translation of [esing’s paper, titled “A
record of eminent priests who went west in search of the Law”,!
quotes a passage from Hui-lin’s Glossary®* in which an ancient over-
land route from Shu (Szechuan) to Assam (Kamariipa) is described. 1
suppose that this gloss has been translated alceady by Pelliot in one
of his innumerable notes but, as it does not appear in the T’oung
Pao Index, 1am, in otder to save the time of searching, translating
it again,

“Starting from Shu-ch’uan (Szechuan) and travelling south, one
passes through the towns of Yii-yao, Yiielv-hsi (?), Pu-wei (?), Yung-
ch’ang.® The ancient name (of the tribes inhabiting this area) is
Ngai-lao."? Under the Han Dynasty** they were subdued. Later
their name was changed into shen-tw.!* The country was named
after their kings These people are descendents from a race
which worshipped a dragon ancestor. To-day they ate counted among
the southern Man. In the extreme northern frontier area the Ch’iang
(Tunguts, Tibetans) live mixed (with the Man).‘* Crossing this Man

38 Mémoires sur les religienx éminents qui allaient chercher la loi dans les
pays doccident, Paris 1844, p. 82, note. Chinese text Taisbd 2066 vol. LI,
PP. ¥-12.

39. Taisbd vol. LIV p. 835a 11-16, This Glossery was finished in A.D, 817.

qo The text reads Pu-hsi instead of Pu-wei. Hui-lin tells us that he relies
‘onan old geography, Kua-ti chib, composed 642 A.D. At that time Yiinnan
was garrisoned unto the cast of Tali; .the names must refer to these garrisons,
Yuryao is unidentifiable; Yiieh-hsi (or sui?) is now a town in Hsi-k’ang,
‘on the road from west Szechuan to Kunming; Pu-w in the Chinese dic-
tionaries identified with Pao-shan, ic. Yung-ch’ang. But these towns or districts
should follow one upon the other which means that Pu-wei must be sought
north, not west, of Yung-ch’ang, a district east of the Tali lake.

4x The Ngai-lao are said to inhabit the region. of Yung-ch’ang, .cf.
Sainson: Le. p.25. Huilin seems to identify: them with the population of
Nan-chao.

42 Read ebib for yii.

43 Shen-tw is the name for the Indus basin and stood for India.

44. Urcad sui as with radical 162, Shen is “spirit” and is here supposed to
refer to the dragon ancestors, 45 Uread keng for buy

2

Google .
10 The Ancient Burma Road—a Legend

frontier area in a western direction, (the traveller) enters the southern
frontier area of Tibet. Further west, passing several high mountain-
ranges and lofty peaks, crossing rivers and valleys, after travelling
altogether more than 3000 Ji, one crosses (for the second time)
the Tibetan frontier. Climbing again over a southern spur of the
Himalayas one enters the south-eastern part of east. T'ien-chu (India)
which is formed by the country of Kamariipa. Nearby, to the south
are the countries of Samatata, Arakan (?),* and Tamralipti. This
mountain path is the shortest way to India but dangerous and difficule.
Te is the quickest overland route between the Tang Empire and the
Five Indias. One has however to choose the best time. In midsum-
mer it is impassable because of the heat, diseases and poisonous insects.
Few of those who have met (these dangers) survived. In autumn it
is impassable because the rivers are swollen through heavy rain, And
in winter climbing the slopes is difficule because snow collects and
the cold is severe, though poisonous animals are absent. A suitable
time for the travel are only the first three months of the year (middle
of February to middle of April). Besides one needs interpreters for a
number of tribal languages and has to carry goods along in order to
pay for transit. As one relies upon local guides, one has to go here
and there seeking information in order to make sure that one will
reach his destination. For the mountains are dangerous and without
toads and it is difficule to find a path through..."”

Ltsing composed his Mémoires during a sojourn in the kingdom of
Sribhoja (Palembang in Sumatra) between 685 and 689. He dis-
covered a Chinese Temple (chib-na ss) about 40 yojanas cast of the
famous Mahabodhi Temple at Nalanda and got some information of
the Chinese monks who stayed there, So he heard that during
the reign of Srigupta (we do not know which Gupta) twenty Chinese
monks had arrived by the tsang-k’o route. This is the only instance
we know of anybody who went this way and survived, but the same
route‘? is also mentioned by Hsiian-tsang who heard of it when he

46 In the Cantonese dialect ho-lai-kai-lo.
47 The Chinese text, Taishd LI p, gaze 14-6, is in line 15 almost literally
identical with chat of Hui-lin,

Google
The Ancient Burma Road—a Legend 11

took leave from Bhaskaravarman, mighty king of Kimaripa, in 644.
The text runs as follows: ‘*

“On-the east this country (Kamariipa) is bounded by a line of
hills and mountains. There is no great city. The frontier area is
contiguous to that of the South-west Tribes (of China), that is, (those
who live there) belong racially to the Man and Lao. On inquiry
into the population (of this region) I learned that after a two months
journey one reaches the south-western frontiers of the province of
Shu (Szechuan). But the mountains and rivers present obstacles and.
the pestilential air, the poisonous vapours, the fatal snakes, the
destructive vegetation, all these causes-of death prevail.”

Another description of this or a similar route is contained in the
second of the itineraries translated by Pelliot.** It says: °*

“From Chu-ko-liang to T’eng-ch’'ung 200 /i; then west to the
town Mi 103 Ji; then west, crossing a mountain, 200 1 to the town
Li-shuei; then, after crossing the river Li-shuei (Irawady 2) and the
river Lung-ch’iian-shuei, (travelling) 200 fi, one attives at the town
An-hsi; further west, after crossing the Mino river (Chindwin?) (and
travelling) 1000 fi, one arrives at the kingdom of the Brahmins—who
are from Ta-ch’in. Further west, crossing a high peak (and travell-
ing) 300 fi, one arrives at the kingdom of Kamariipa which forms
the northern border area of east India. Further south-west, after
1200 i, one arrives at the kingdom of Pundravardhana which forms
the north-eastern frontier of central India, (This route) unites with
that which leads from the country of the P’iao to the Brahmins.””

From these records we take the following :

Before 644, pethaps already much earliet, there existed a route
leading into north-eastern Assam (Kamariipa) from Shu (Szechuan):
Ie began in the Yung-ch’ang district and led north to the frontier
which was always formed by the Chin-sha-chiang (the upper Yangtse

48 lam quoting from S, Beal: Buddhist Records of the Western World.
vol. 2, undated, p. 198, but have slightly changed Beal's translation.

49 The record of Chia Tan (730-805), composed during the period chen-
yiian (785-805), is found in the Hsin T'ang-shu ch. 43B 13 (T’nng-wen pan
29 6).

50. CE, Itinéraizes p. 371/2.

Google
2 The Ancient Burma Road—a Legend

rivet). Then it led west, pethaps through the Shib-men pass into
Po-nan,*? on the western side of the Mekong. Further west it must
have passed through the territory of the “Brahmins from Ta-ts’in” and
crossed the Namkin range before descending into the Brahmaputra valley
near modern Sadiya. The first cext implies chat he northern
corner of modetn Burma must then have been in Tibetan hands.

The third route of those desctibed led farther south than the first
two and might have followed partly the track of the modern Ledo
road, but it also ended in the north-east corner of Assam.

Routes through Tibet

A. Hetrmann’s Atlas contains four routes leading from Ch’ang-an,
the capital of the T’ang, to Lhasa. Three? follow the caravan track
through modern Kansu and branch off at different intervals, one
leading south-west through the country of the T’u-yii-hun (Ku-ku
nor), one south-east from Khotan, and one through modern Kashmir
to Pataliputra, then north through Nepal. Another route, perhaps
one of the oldest because it was known already to Chang Ch’ien,*
appears on amap of the western Tsin Dynasty (268-316 A.D.).**
This is now one of the best known caravan tracks used by official
and other travellers for journeys to places in inner Tibet.®* It starts
from Ta-tien lu (K’ang-ting), passes Batang in the south and, after
about 120 miles, divides, one track leading north-west to Lhasa, the

51 Uptothe Wan-li period (1573-1619) the southern frontier of the
Tibetans was formed by: a barrier near the modern Wei Cf. E. Chavannes :
Documents historiques et geographiques relatifs a Likiang. T’owng Pao X!I
(1912) pp. 565-653.

52 Po-nan, later Lan-chou, was occupied by the Chinese during the yang-
p'ing period (58-75 A,D.). It was the westernmost garrison, The bee-line
from there to the present Assam frontier is under 200 miles,

53 On map 39 (Asia ca. 750 A.D.).

54 Sbib-chi ch. 123 p. 8b (T’ung-wen-pan).

55 Map 28.

56 I have seen two descriptions. F. M, Bailey: China-Tibet-Assam,
London 1945 (scientific, with a good map) and G,N, Patterson: Tibetan
Journey, London, undated. Between Gartok and Drowa Gompa these routes are
not identical,

Google
The Ancient Burma Road—a Legend 3

other south-west to Rima and Assam. A third track branches off
some 50 miles earlier and leads south to Likiang in Yiinnan.! As we
are: interested only in the communications between this province and
Kimariipa, we shall not dwell on the histories of the first three routes.

I know of only one traveller who left Assam by this route and
finished in Yiinnan, an official. who in 1878 had gone to India from
Szechuan and was stopped on the return journey near Batang.** He
was forced to turn south to Tung-tien and continue to Likiang. Why
was this route used so rarely? “As I think, because of the hostility of
the tribes (Chiang) who held the lefe shore of the upper Yangtse-
kiang. Already Chang Ch'ien mentioned this point. The Chinese
armies who entered Yiinnan always went round the Yangtse bend and
entered Nan-chao from the west. Only Nan-chao herself had, in
peace and wartime, contact with Tibet either over the Iron Bridge
(constructed 7512)** or che Shih-men kuan (Stone Gate pass).t®
Chinese travellers bent on reaching India would naturally follow the
chain of Chinese garrisons and chus get into one of the routes farther
south (see above), but Indians might have come to Yiinnan via Tibet.

Let us now throw a glance on the history of the respective coun-
tries in order to find out when possibly there could-have been traffic
over this route. The Pushyavarman dynasty of Kamardpa is counted
from 380-650 A.D, Their last king was Bhiskaravarman who was
visited by Hsiian-tsang in 643/4. Then followed the dynasty of
Silastambha which gave way to an anarchy, the so-called. matsyanyaya,
lasting about 30 years (750-780). Names of rulers are known again
from epigtaphical materials of the ninth and tenth centuries. K. L,
Barua reports chat King YaSovarman sent an embassy to China in
731" We know nothing about diplomatic relations between
Kamariipa and Tibet and also nothing of hostilities.

57 Concerning the routes between Batang and Likiang cf: E. Chavannes,
Documents I.c. Six itineraries, leading into Tibet over two different routes, an
eastern and a western one, are described.

58 Chavannes: Documents l.c, p. 580.

59 430 li north-east of Likiang. 60 120 li west of Likiang.

61 Early History of Kamaripa, Shillong 1933, p. 118, He refers to
Vincent Smith but does not quote the exact place of his reference.

Google
14 The ‘Ancient Burma Rosd—a Legend

How was the situation in Tibet? S, Lévi tells us that “the firse
positive relations between Nepal on the one hand and China and
Tibet on the other date from the 7th century. They began after the
population of Tibet organized themselves asa state”.*® At that time
no organized trade routes existed, and few towns,*? but perhaps settle-
ments of nomads. Routes through Tibet were opened by Chinese
embassies, which began in 643 with that of Li I-piao who escorted
the famous princess Wen-ch’eng to the court of Srong-btsan-sgam-po
and ended in 665 with the return of Wang Hsiian-ts’c from his last
journey. They were used by some monks during the next decade but
soon later all routes through Tibet were blocked.**

And Yiinnan? Before 751 the northern frontier was defended by.
the rulers of Nan-chao in co-operation with the Chinese. But after
that date which marks a break with their former allies*® they sought
the friendship of the Tibetan neighbours. The Iron Bridge was buile
in order to facilitate communications. This friendship lasted till 788
when I-mu-hsin turned round and together with the Chinese defeated
the Tibetans in the battle north of Ning-yiian in modern Hsi-k’ang
(794)- :
From this it follows that through traffic between Nan-chao and
Kamardpa via Tibet, though not impossible, must have been difficule
before 751 through the complete absence of route organization. Only
a well equipped expedition could have succeeded. Of that we have
no knowledge. Later when the Iron Bridge was built a route must
have been organized between Lhasa and Tali which made traffic easy
till the Bridge was cut in 794. - No traces of Tibetan influence in
Yiinnan during the eighth and ninth centuries have yet been discovered,
apart from the titles bestowed on the Nan-chao rulers, but cf. Figure 3.

62 Le Népal, Paris 1905, p. 150.

63 According to Vincent Smith : Early History of India including Alexan
der's Campaigns, Oxford 1924, p. 377, Lhasa was founded 639.

64 665-715 all routes between China and the West were closed. (V.
Smith Le.), The following two centuries were filled with almost uninterrupted
hostilities with the Tibetans.

65 The Chinese were defeated in a battle west of Tali and again four years
later east of that town,

Google
The Ancient Burma Road—a Legend 15

Summary

In very ancient times myths, plants, animals, technical devices,
are transferred not by route but by contact between whole populations
which pass motifs on. In this paper we were dealing with routes.
Between India and China contact by route existed: in the north since:
the expeditions of Chang Chien (via Turkestan), in the south since
the first century B.C. (?) (by boat along the coasts). Contact with
the tribes inhabiting the Tibetan plateau existed even earlier. A
track into Tibet and from there to India, beginning in Shu (Szechuan—
north Yiinnan), was known already to Chang Ch'ien. But because
of hostilities it was rarely used. Pilgrims to the holy places of
Buddhism therefore tried to bypass Tibet in the south, They
succeeded in some cases, but the tsang-k'o route became never a
trade route. Indian influence in Nan-chao, evidence of which exists
for the second half of the eighth century A.D., most probably reached
Tali via Kamaripa-Tibet. Since about 760 A.D. the fact that
Srikshetra and the ocean could be reached via Burma was known to
the people of Nan-chao but the Burma Road was not opened to traffic
until between 791 and 858 when the first evidence of such traffic
is available, This date, about a millenium later than that accepted
by P. Pelliot, this follows as a consequence if we accept two premises :'
(1) that the Chinese word p’i¢o, when used before 800, does not
necessarily refer to the kingdom of the Vikrama dynasty in Sriksetra,
(2) that the word ta-ts’in, besides being used to designate the Roman
Orient or Ktesiphon, also referred to a hypothetical ethnical group,
called the ‘Brahmins from Ta-ts'in” who inhabited what is now the
north-eastern corner of Burma.

Google
Di

Figure 1, Rubbing from a stamped brick of the Bell-clapper
Pagoda in Ta-yao ‘hsien in Yiinnan, Ninth century, ‘The
script is identical with that written in Nalanda and Kimaviipa
io thee ccomary, “The eest read namah ye dharma hetu-
prabhava hetu...evamvadi mahisramanah! tadyatha otf
anale anale visad,..vajradhara bandhabandhani_vajrapini huth
phat svaha,,.oifi buddhilocane svahi...strvith (2) hath?

1, Four Chinese characters yiian sheng fa chow (name of
the dharani)

2, Three Chinese characters ta fo ting (half of the name
of the dharani),

Google

Figure 2, Drawing after an amatcur photo of one of
the two smaller pagodas in Ch’ung-sheng ssu near
Tali. The cornices and the rows of pots (gbata), used
as corner decoration, show Indian inBuence.

Figure 3. Drawing after an amateur
photo of the top of the Bell-clapper
agoda at Ta-yao hsien in Yunnan, Simi-
Er'pagodas are unknown in. China,
Should we think of Tibetan influence?
CE, Inscriptions 1, p. 35.

Google
Kamandakiya Nitisara etc, in Old-Javanese
By C. HooyKaas

To bring out a revised edition of the Kamandakiya Nitisira, the
Asiatic Society asked for my help for the Javanese side of this work.
Indeed, unless one is an Indologist and a Javanist at the same time,
like Professor Hendrik Kern in a former generation, and Prof. Gonda,
author of ‘Sanskrit in Indonesia” nowadays, co-operation of students
in the various fields is the only solution to the language-diffculties.

The Ol-Javanese (O-J) text does mot contribute positive
materials to the reconstruction of a Sansktit-text, dissimilar
in so far as to the rdle played by O. J. parvas of the Mahabharata,
Those studying the spread of Indian culture over ‘Greater
India’, however, might be interested in the results of my researches,
since the practical lessons from Indian works on niti and artha-
fastra prove to have stood in high esteem, not only in Java’s
colony Bali, hinduised more than a thousand years ago and still profess-
ing Hinduism, but even in Islamised Java, up till the XXth century
and the second world war. I am in a position to add some thing to
the work done by the Javanese scholat Professor Poerbatjaraka,? and
that of Himansu Bhusan Sarkar,* both of whom were preceded by Sir
Thomas Stamford Raffles with his monumental work ‘The History of
Java’ (completely antiquated but never to be forgotten), and by
Dr, H. H. Juynboll with his indispensable catalogues of MSS.

1 International Academy of Indian Culeure, Nagpur (India) 1952.

2 Nitigastra, Oud-Javaansche tekst met vertaling, uitgegeven doory......
Bibliotheca Javanica 4, Kon, Bataviaasch Genootschap van Kunsten en We-
tenschappen, Bandoeng 1933.

3 Indian Influences on the Literature of Java and Bali, Greater India
Society, Studies No. 1, Calcutta 1934.

4 London, 1817; 2 vols. and, imp, 1830.

5 Supplement op den catalogus van de Javaansche en Madoereesche Hand-
schriften der Leidsche Universiteits Bibliotheck, Leiden, I 1907, II x91.

Google 7
Kamandakiya Nitisira etc. in Old-Javanese 19

These findings are dealt with under the following headings:
I. Niti-sira (Bali) and Niti-Sastea (Java),
I, Kamandaka: the work and the name,
III. Niti-praya wich its dozen Sansktit Slokas.
IV. Artha and Niti in the Old-Javanese Ramayana.
V. Sara-samuccaya Tutur (i.e. Ethical Work).

1. Niti-sira (Bali) and Niti-tastra (Java)

The Sanskeit Kamandakiya Niti-sira has been edited twice at
least." Manmatha Nath Dutt gave an English translation? to which

he added quite a number of clucidations, A comparative evaluation
of the text is to be found in A.B. Keith*, in M, Winternitz’ and
other works. Our compilation consists of + 1200 stanzas, disposed in
XIX chapters.

On the Indonesian side it appears that Sarkar*, editing his book
in 1934, had not yet had access to Poetbatjaraka’s book dated 1933.2
Dr. U.N. Ghoshal in his «Progress of Greater Indian Research (1917-
42)’ *° could find room only to characterise it as ‘a collection of wise
sayings, moral precepts and so forth of the Canakya-niti-class’;
here, however, we will consider it at greater length.

This is the more necessary since Sarkar’s valuable introduction just
here clearly denionstrated its weak side. To begin with, it was based
upon Raffles, undoubtedly a pioneering genius, but certainly no longer
an authority. Sarkar quotes, without making comment": ‘Bhatica
Guru is cool ; still colder is the moon; but the coldness of neither is
to be compared to that which is instilled by the voice of a holy
man,

6 By Rajendralala Mitra in Bibliotheca Indica 1849-1884; with the comm,
of Saitkaricatya by Ganapati Sastri in TSS No. 14, 1912.

7 Kam. N.S. ot The Elements of Polity, Calcutta 1896.

8 A History of Sanskrit Literature, Oxford University Press, London 1920;
3rd photographical reprint 1953, p. 462.

9 Geschichte der Indischen Litteratur, Leipzig, pars III, 1920, pp. 524-7.

10 Greater India Society, Calcutta 1943 (previously in Jubilee Volume of
the Bhandarkar Oriental Institute, Poona, and simultaneously in the Joarnal of
the Greater India Society 1X. 2).

11 op. cit., p. 92.

Google
20 Kamandakiya Nitisira etc. in Old-Javanese

This proves to be the only quotation to be found in Poerbatjaraka’s
text-edition, Ill. 10= 37 (first half), metre Padma-kefara’*:

Bhatara Hari-candandtigaya tis nira luméwih'* i teja ni  wulan;

sa-tis nira kindlihan kaléwihan tékap i wacana sai mabarddhika.

[God Hari-candana’* gives much coolness, more even than

the moon;

the words of a true sage, however, are more as twice as cool.]

Sarkar’s other quotations are borrowed from the Modern- Javanese
recension Panniti Sastea, as Raffles had already remarked."* Hence
it is preferable to curn immediately to Poerbatjaraka’s text.

This kekawin (= kavys) disposes its 120 stanzas in XV cantos
(between brackets the number of stanzas): 1(14), XI (1) & XIII (11)
Sardala-vikeidica ; I (13) VanSa-patra-patita; III (11) Padma-keSara ;
IV (24) & VIII (6) Raga-kusuma; V (6) & XIV (8) Kusuma-vicitra;
VI (4) Aévarlalica; VI (2) Bhramara-vilasitas IX (4) & XII (1)
Unknown (00-/0-0/00-000/000/-0-/00); X (3) Praviralalitas XV
(12) Vasanta-tilaka,

According to Indian standards, such a composition comes nearer
toa sarge in a kavys, of which sarges nearly every Rivya has one
at least, in which a considerable variety of metres is displayed™*, than
to a havya itself. OJ Kakawins, however, are generally shorter
than the classical Indian kavyas ; though the OJ Ramayana counts
2774 stanzas and Bhauma-kavya 1375, Bhirata-yuddha has 724,
Harivaiga and Smara-Dahana have some 500, Arjuna-vivaha and
Nagara-ktdgama between 4oo and 350,'* Nirartha-Prakgta'? even 61

12. 0-0/00-/0-0/00-/000/000|-0- /0e-.

12a (Correction-note) & denotes Jav, pepet, voiceless a, as in a-field.

13 CE. Poerbatjaraka (Lesya), Agastya in den Archipel, thesis Leiden,
1926, Leiden p. 65 599. 74 544-

14 op. city I (and imp.) p. 285.

15 Cfmy The Old-Javanese Rimiyana Kakawin, with special reference
to the problem of interpolation in Kakawins, Verhandelingen van het Koninklijk
Instituut voor Taal-, Land-en Volkenkunde XVI, The Hague 1955, p. 19, £

16 My book in note 15, Appendix III.

17 Bijdragen Koninklijk Instituut, Jubileum-nummer 1941-1951, The

Hague, pp. 201-25,

Google
Kamandakiya Nitisira etc. in Old-Javanese at

only, several of which moreover are to be rejected, according to
Poerbatjaraka, as being inserted.

In the preface to his edition and (Dutch) translation, Poerbatjaraka
is worried about the fact that Raffles attributes 123 stanzas to ‘Niti-
Sastta Kawi’, My investigation into the Raffles MS at the Royal
Asiatic Society, London, revealed that actually this MS belonging
exactly to Poerbatjaraka’s right-hand-group of his p. 20, inserts one
stanza only in the beginning of Canto XI, after most MSS had
stopped with X.3=87, and that the other 2 stanzas do not exist,
ot owe their alleged existence to mistakes in numbering.

This poem, entitled Niti-sara in Bali, Niti-Sastca (kawi) in Java,
according to Poerbatjaraka, the student par excellence of Javanese
literature, old and new, must date from the last years of Maja-
pahie, Unfortunately this way of dating is rather vague, since
we no longer believe in a ‘fall’ of Maja-pahit in 1478 or 1528 asa
victim of the Mussulman sword, as did a previous generation, We
are now obliged to believe in a gtadual decline in force of the old
capital, when the new Muslim coastal ports became more opulent
and powerful. Poerbatjaraka will have meant: in the second half of
the XV century, not (much) after 1500.

Ies recast in Modern-Javanese, fragments of which are to be found
in Raffles’ and Sarkar’s books, survived in the Javanese Principalities
until the recent (XX. century) introduction of (Dutch) governmental
education ; it was translated (into Dutch) by Mounier"*.

The contents of the OJ Niti-sata/Niti-Sastea_make the impression
of being purely Indian in origin. The garb, however, in which the
maxims have been clad, though also of Indian origin, did not favour
exact translation: its metres must at times have driven the poet to
some abbreviation, at other times to enlargement and addition.
Though Poerbatjaraka was unable to trace ‘the’ example of his work
as a whole, he could for roughly half of his stanzas point to similar
thoughts in Otto Béhtlingk’s ‘Indische Spriiche""*; without too much

18 Tijdschrife voor Neérlandsch Indié, sde jaargang (1843), ade deel,

p. 236 sq.
19 First ed. St, Petersburg 1 1863, I 1164; 2. ed. in 3 vols. 1870-73.

Google
22 Kamandakiya Nitiséra etc. in OldJavanese

difficulty I could find several _more,2* As soon as these 480 lines
have beech translated into English, students of Indian niti-literature
will, I feel sure, be able to trace (nearly) all of chem in Ske. works
on niti. 1 doubt whether it will be possible to detect one definite
treatise as a source; the Javanese may not only have re-arranged the
contents of the work, but also have omitted from or/and added to it:
the work may also have been an anthology from the very beginning.

One thing, however, is beyond doubt: the OJ Niti-sira/Niti-Séstra
(Kawi), though certainly a work on niti, has (next t) nothing
in common with the Ske. Kamandakiya Nit

Il. Kamandaka; the work and the author
a. The Work

Not OJ Niti-sita bue OJ Kamandaka serves to show telationship
with Ske. Kamandakiya Niti-sira. This work was already known to
the German Sanskritist Dr Friederich who went to Java and Bali in
order to study there the effluents of Sanskrit thought and shape, just
as Anquetil du Perron had done half a century earlier in search of
Indian thought itself: in the uniform of a military man in the coloni-
al army!" Several copies were acquired by Dr Van der Tuuk, author
of the Kawi-Balineesch-Nederlandsch Woordenboek™*, who studied
mainly OJ for neatly 20 years unintercuptedly in Bali (1875-94-)
His MSS were first described, mainly according to their outward
appearance, by the assistants of Dr Brandes;* che initial fragments
ate in this case sufficient 0 state that OJ Kamandaka begins with
wisdom also to be found in the very beginning of the Kim. N. S.
Dr Van der Tuuk’s MSS, donated to the Library of Leiden Univer-

20 Bibliotheca Javanica, in DAWA, 20, 19401 pp. 42-46.

21 Voorloopig Verslag van het Eiland Bali, in Verhandelingen van het
Bataviaasch Genootachap van Kunsten en Wetenschappen, XXII, 1849 p, 23+

22 Landsdrulekerij, Batavia, I-IV, 1897-1912.

23 Beschrijving der Javaansche, Balineesche en Sasaksche Handschriften,
aangetroffen in de nalatenschap van Dr.H.N. van der Tuuk, en door hem
vermaake aan de Leidsche Universiteitsbibliotheek, Batavia, Landsdrukkerij,
LIV, 1901-26.

Google ’ 7
Kamandakiya Nitisara etc. in Old-Javanese 23

sity, were accorded a painstaking description by Dr. H. H. Juynboll**,
who failed, however, to trace their Indian origin, Djakarta also has
some MSS of this work, according to the titlelist made by Dr. Poer-
batjaraka™*.

The following extract is based upon ULL Cod. Or. 3927 (1),
aromanised transliteration of which, made by the Javanese assistant
for Javanese J. Soegiarto, I had at my disposal, thanks to Prof. Dr.
C.C. Berg from Leiden.

To begin with: Ske. Kim. N.S. numbers XIX chapters, OJ
Kamandaka 19 palm-leaves only, on both sides written with 4 lines;
Skt. Kam. N.S. numbers 1200 stanzas ad 32 syllables, OJ Kam.
has some 12,000 syllables. So from the outset it will be clear
that the OJ prose text can only be cither a fragment or an anthology
from the Ske. example. Actually it proves to be a rather sketchy
anthology; the division into chapters has disappeared completely,
bue the sequence of examples has been roughly followed. A consider-
able number of Ske. cechnical cerms bas been preserved, and will be
mentioned underneath in due order, but not even a part of one single
Ske. éloke. Several names are included even of persons not mentioned
in Ske. Kam, N. $.5 these enlargements are of unknown origin and
diminished the space allocated to borrowings from Ske. Kam, N.S.

(leaf 1) After awighnam astu the Bhagavan Kamandaka promises
his students that he will teach them Sai Aji Raja-Nisi (or, accord-
ing to 2 other MSS. Sei Hyai RN—the most holy R.N.).
After some sentences the holy man sums up, according to 1
MS: “And so I will teach aji Kemandake to you.’ The MS. Br.
472=Ju 4247, tightly characterised by Brandes as deviating and mote
ample (a characteristic which was wrongly omitted by Juynboll) soon
repeats this same name twice again.

24 Cp. note 5 and Supplement op den Catalogus van de Sundaneesche
Handschriften en Catalogus van de Balineesche cn Sasaksehe Handschriften der
Leidsche Universiteits Bibliotheck, Leiden, 1912.

25 (R.Ng, Dr. Poetbatjaraka) Lijst der Javaansche Handschriften in de
bockerij van het Kon. Bat. Gen., Jaarboek I, 1933, pp. 269-376.

Google
24 Kamandakiya Nitisara etc. in Old-Javanese

This MS has no colophon; Br. 465 =Ju 327 (1) more than once,
also in its final part, stresses maintaining of raje-niti, more a genetic
term than a name, and has as its colophon: /ti Kamandaka (not as the
name of the teacher, but as that of the book, for those words are imme-
diately followed by ‘worthy to be striven after by kings’. Thesame in
Br. 468=Ju. 3990 (1). Br. 466 = Ju. 3885 (1), a copy of Br. 467 = Ju.
3781 (1), makes this still clearer by reading: [+i aji K. (Such is the
ethical treatise K.). Br. 473 = Ju. 3877 (1) in its colophon first reads:
Sait Hyan Raje-niti Kamandaka samapta, and after 3 namaskiras
(‘nama Sivaya, namo Dbarmasya, namab Satisaya Svabe’) continues:
Iti Sati Hyats Raja-Niti samapta,

The Skt. Kam. N.S, begins with Salutation unto the Glorious,
GaneSa, and proceeds by praise to Visnu-gupta/Canakya/Kautilya, in
the colophon calling itself the Niti-Sara of Kamandaki—but in com-
parison with the contents these divergences are insignificant.

The passage of prose which follows goes back to I. 9, 1. 10,1. 11,
bue the author compares the righteous king with Brahm& and not
Prajapati.2*

In absence of such a king, the subjects eat one another as if they
were fishes (cp. VIII. 68.)

(leaf 2) A good king should pay attention to purobita, brabmana.
Gcarya, veda-paraga, students of dharma, sattvika, paustika.

A king should have 3 friends: dharma, kama and artha.—

He should avoid 20 types of men, designated one by one with
the Skt. terms, immediately followed by the OJ paraphrase; afterwards
follows the explanation, why these weak brethren should be shunned
by a righteous king. In this enumeration a copyist must once have
overlooked a paraphrase and next Ske. word, which omission appeared
clearly from the explanation which followed underneath in the Jav.
text. The explanation also went setiously wrong a few items further
on, and both series warn the king only again 19 categories to be avoided,
The words given, however, suggest something like the following 4

26 use this—to denote that the author himself finishes his paragraph
with a concluding phrase, Where this sign fails, the MS jumps over to another
subject without transition.

Google

Kamandakiya Nitistra etc. in Old-Javanese 25
Slokas in the original text, which in our MS has only been quoted

piecemeal.
Bala-veddha-dirgha-rogi jfiatibabikreti——
bhirukah—bhiru-jana sama-lobha-lubda-jana
virakea-praketi— visayesy atifaktiman
aneka-citta-matrasca ——
devopakatakaScaiva daiva-cieeata evacca
durbhiksa-vyasanopeta balawvyasana-saikulah
adestaka bahu-ripuh loke yukta kile ya$ ca
satya-dharmabhyapetaca viiSati-purusa

(leaf 5) A king should have 7 friends, to wit satya, drys, dharma,
abbarya (paraphrased with bitisake to sarve-dusta), vrata-saigeta
(paraphrased with having a large family), bali, aneka-yuddba-vijays—
so the author here definitely does not envisage the 7 constituents
mentioned in Kam. N.S.I.16 and repeated throughout the book.

(leaf 6) The 7 friends exemplified.—The authoe warns of war
between kings of equal forces, resulting in the death of both parties.
He illustrates his view by pointing to the death of Nivatakavaca, a daitya
who took the shape of a varaba, but was killed by Acjuna when
penancing on Mount Indrakila (Xl.r1 mot connected with this
reasoning). Next deterrent is the mortal quartel of ‘Nisunda’ and
‘Pasunda’ for the sake of a gitl (Tilottam’, the heavenly nymph), in
this connection also adduced in IX.61. Consequently kings equal in
valour and power should become friends.—

(leaf 7) War will now be deale with. A king should obsetve the
right kala, first look at the number of his enemies, and know how
many allies he can dispose of. In case of victory, he gains 3: king-
dom, friends and gold, Enemies, difficule to conquer, are he who (a) has
adbikara of janma, (b) is reliable in his utterings, (c) has great Sakti,
(4) is steadfast in buddbi, (c) knows about guna, ot (f) viveka, (g) has
dbana (or: dina) Sara, (hk) has many adherents, Therefore aking
should have sufficiene viveka and be firm in his Sésana.—

a7 Xi.11 means Kam. N.S. XL 115 henceforward this abbreviation is
omitted,

4
Google
26 Kamandakiys Nitisira etc. in Old-Javanese

(leaf 8) Before attacking an enemy, the king should study the
5 possible weak points of his foe: being addicted to women, cating
and drinking, hunting, gambling, utpathe concerning the gods; for
in those cases it will prove easy to conquer him.

‘Another #paya’—so the author continues, is duaidbibbava (XI.24-
27), double-dealing, defined at length, as docs Dutt in his note.

Different is the behaviour of him who seeks afraya (sansraya,
XI. 28). A laudable example was set by Yudhisthira, Suyodhana’s
victim in gambling, leading the Pandavas from his capital, after 12
years seeking refuge with Maharaja Matsya-pati of Virata-nagara,
and with his help crushing the Kaurava-Sata.

(leaf 9) Another example is that of Sugtiva, king of the monkeys,
brother to Valin, king of Kiskinda-vivara, which last-mentioned
monkey-chief had robbed him (S) of his queen Tara; secking refuge
with Rama, Sugriva was restored.

On his turn, Rimadeva sought refuge with Sugriva, because
Sita had been taken from him by Ravana, king of Lahka-pura, while
Rama guarded Sutiksna’s hermitage, and was chasing DaSa-mukha’s
cara, the daitya Miica, embodied in a golden deer.

In this way these 3 persons profited by updya saniiraya.—

The 6 gunas are: sandbi, vigraba, sthina, duaidbibbava, yana, and

saiiéraya (cp. XI. 29 LP).

Dangerous is the position of a king whose viveks (power of
discrimination) is weak, and who is careless about his mantris,
brabmanas, Saivas and saugatas, and all those conversant with naya.

A wise king should take as his advisers wise people, devoted to
him, but avoid those who are foolish, though devoted to him, or
clever people not devoted to him (XI. 29 S).

(leaf 10) Council should be held in a place without curtains or
sifikab (concealment), on the flat top of a palace and in a place
devoted to the worship of the gods, and it should be well guarded
(gopita).

A king should have 12 councillors according to Divine Manu,
16 acc, to Bhagavan Brhaspati and 20 acc. to Bh, Sukea (XI. 74
has. here Usanas, mentions Sukea, preceptor of the demons, as an
authority in XIX. 31).

Google
Kamandakiya Nitisira etc. in Old-Javanese 27

When a king follows the rasa of thé agama, he is unconquerable
to his enemies, invulnerable to their weapons, enjoys permanent
happiness, as the fruit of practising niti-yopya. As long as he ear-
nestly practises the rasa of aji raja.niti and raja-Sasana, however fierce
his enemies may be upon him, he will be the more powerful and
dominate them completely,

A king should have ambassadors and spies (XII). A spy should
find out geographical and military situations in the enemy's country.
An ambassador should be a learned man; just as the sun sucks the
water from the soil, so he should suck thoughts from his enemies
(cp. XII. 29).—

(eaf 11) Now I will teach you the kinds of upaya patcat prakopa
(XV. 20) with which che enemy should be afflicted, for they cause
virodba: gambling, wagers, cocks, sopoti‘ics (? parib-pariban),
gambling, all kinds of wagers, eating and drinking, amusements
(inakan kala), inebriation, all kinds of things which cause disagtee-
ment. They should be instilled into the enemy's purobita, courtiers,
senapati, the rajaputra(s), army-officers, the P. M. and all the subjects

and soldiers. They will cause their utter ruin, and the king should
not lose sight of this wpaya.

The king should be careful, when his own teoops are unreliable;
he should not trust chem too soon, for the enemy has many
stratagems. (this and next pericope not cleat to me). Herewith the
king’s inspiring of sama-bbeda into his own army has been dealt
with (cp. saptdpaya in 1.13).

The king should try to make himselé popular with che army,
comply with its wishes, be on a friendly footing with it, Guna,
when found in his servants, he should mention and praise, and
accompany this with rewards, in order that the army may love him
with real devotion,

(leaf 12) In order to obtain victory, a king should act without
delay, be well-informed (vidagdha), not dina-citta ot dina-ripa in case
of misadventure, do his best to be...of mind, and practise dharma.

Fourfold is the buddbi, beginning from garbba-vasa: (a) pravrttl,
(b) $astra-samutcavab (? explained by buddbi kapaiiguh saken ajya 2),

Google WV AIGAN
28 Kamandakiya Nitisara etc. in Old-Javanese

(6) sansargini, (4) parinamiki (? ikan buddbi kapatigub de ni
havrddbyan i j'dna—mentality obtained by growth of wisdom).—

‘At the occasion of an audience the king should smile benevolently
and his speech should be priyamvada. Gifts, consisting of money
gold, garments, robes, should be accompanied by madbura-vacana
and friendliness. This behaviour will firmly establish his swkbé,
‘cause su-bbakti from his subjects, so that they ate prepared for
parityaga, ready to sacrifice wife and child in times of distress'and
war, because of su-satya towards the prabbu.

In order to obtain victory in war, the prabbu should choose
favourable environments for himself (XVI), unfavourable. for the
enemy.

(leaf 13) The author distinguishes dharma-, uttama-, madbyama-
and adbamasthina (XVI. 19-21)—

The king should be virtuous in order to obtain victory, and should
respect pandita, brabmana, acarya, Saiva, saugata, mabesvara, not
practise intrigues, and in this way further the stability and effectiveness
of all his actions.

The king should conquer his enemy by Rosa (=dravya miilya) and
mantra (= wise words) (no more here; cp. 1,17)«

Follow the saptépaya: sama, bbeda (these 2 already proleptically
in leaf 11), dhana (meant: dana), danda, maya, upeksa, indra-jala
(XVIL3).

(1) sama consists of 5 Sabda : teaching (a) upakara, (b) guna in
other people, (c) pirva-sambaddha (or : p:-samvada?), (d) long-lasting
-sukba, (c) how to behave to the parents of other people (?).

* (2) dana (dealt with here) can be subdivided in 5 kinds (XVII.
67)« (a) gifts made to other people, kanistha-madbyaméttama, (b)
property, taken away by anwmana (permission) of the owner, then
given, (c) property, taken away unobservedly, so that the owner is
surprised (sic; cp. XVII. 7), but then an whbaya (agreement) is made,

(leaf 14) (2) property, made the object of svayarigrabe (freely ot
violently taking); when this action is reciprocated, the taker makes an
wbbeya, and the owner gives it; if property is given to another person,
but he refuses it (inmpawakaken de sai wineb).

Google
Kamandakiys Nitisira etc. in Old-Javanese 29

(3) bbeda is of 3 kinds (prabbeda) (XVII. 8): (a) awe-inspiting
pravriti to yout enemies, (b) amiable prauytti towards your friends, (e)
same pravrtti towards enemies and friends (?).

(4) danda (XVIL. 10) is of 2 kinds: (2) open, against criminals;
(b) secret, against those who cause anxiety to their friends (XVII. 11).

(5) maya (XVII. 51-54) consists. of bad intentions towards other
people, by assuming disguise of a woman, by doing evil during dark
nights, by hiding one’s self in trees, by assuming the shape of a daitya
pikéce, wild hound, deet, or of a person, The king’s spies should
find out about this maya. Maya caused by the king’s enemies should
be carefully found out by the king’s spies and kept secret.

(leaf 15) All kinds of weapons, fire, stones, water, mountains and
wind produced by the gods at their pleasure are their maya. Bhima
killed Kicaka by being disguised as a woman (XVII-54). He who
was called Nala used the maya stratagem and was successful (vague
allusion; XVIL. 54 is as vague, but must have read A-nala=God of
Fire).

(6) wpekga (XVII. 55-57). Not preventing one from doing
wrong, from waging wat, from committing all kinds of crimes, not to
be prevented, most of all when threatened (?) by the king,...imminent
danger of death,,, that is upaydpeksa. Mahd-raja Matsya-pati, king
of Virdta failed to warn (his brother in law) Kicaka, who was killed by
Bhima (cp. above under 5). Another example is Hidimbi, enamoured
of Bhima, afraid of her elder brother Hidimba, a raksasa, had him
intentionally slain by Bhima,

(7) indra-jala=causing hallucination to the enemy, seeing of
clouds and .

(leaf 16) darkness where there is no darkness, seeing rain, fire,
mountains, men in arms, where they do not exist, etc. (XVII. 58-59).

‘A king desirous of victory should practise the saptépaya + sad-
guna mentioned above (XVII. 60). Sama-+ dana gives good results
(XVII. 61); sama without dina, friendly words even, not accompanied
by dana, gold, artha, garments and excellent robes, cannot give good
results; even with one’s own wife without sama (XVII, 62). Friendly
words without dine do not stick to the mind; therefore the king
should add dana if he wants to be sure of his deeds. He should not

Google
30 Kamandakiye Nitisira etc. in Old-Javanese

apply upaya only towards enemies, but also towards subjects, friends
and relatives. Failing in wpaya the king is as a blind man (XVII. 63),
failing to discern evil from good.

IE wpaya gives no results, the king should resort to danda (XVIII).
Before attacking the enemy he should worship Siva and make offerings
to the brahmanas.

(leaf 17) Only after be has earned divine favour should he give
commands to his army.

The king should contrive that his troops, engaged in battle, do not
encounter durgama, for the enemy has numerous upaya eg. updya
pascat prakopa.

Those engaged in vivdda in times of urgency fight with their
friends, subjects, relatives and family.

Kosa =dravya milya, mantra= words and discrimination (repetition
from 1. 13)., the cause of virodba (cp. leat 11), ..., to be striven after
by the king, i.e. pafeat prakopa; therefore the P.M. protects him (and)
the troops in the battlefield (transl, far from certain).

The sena-pati (cp. XVIII. 27-43) should be a su-janma from Arya-
deSa; a man who knows discrimination, loved by all mantris,
favoured by the king, popular with the subjects, learned in danda-niti
raja-niti, and sodasa-vyaba. He must practise mantra-siddbi, not
criticise sarva-vrate, not suffer from vairagya when defeated by the

enemy, and Sakti-karma (kara? fortify) the prabbu, have su-
bhakti towards the gods; he must feel confident in marching, in things
coarse and fine, and protect the subjects by day and by night.

(leat 18) The king on his march should have subjects before him,
queens behind him in Sakata (vyaba), onechatiot conducted by 2
horses; elephants enclosing the chatiots, soldiers the vehicles and wag-
gonss, as a forest those all, all of them conducted by 2 elephants.

Behind the king comes the send-pati by way of tulak balsk
(=lightning conductor) (XVII. 47)

The troops should not move too hurriedly, neither should they be
allowed to move too slowly.

When resting they should have plenty of water and food, make a
camp on a well-guarded site, for neither by day nor by night one can
be sure of the enemy’s stratagems,

Google
Kamandakiya Nitisira etc, in Old-Javanese 31

Having arrived in the enemy’s country the king should deploy a
vyiiba: site, gaja-, garuda-, makara-, cakra-, padma-, wukir-
sagara-, ardba-candra- ot vajra-tiksna-vytha (XVII. 48-493 XIX.
4°57).

Now the king should attack his enemy, from right, left and
behind, whatever may cause the enemy's defeat, and he may cheat
the enemy (XVIII. 69)

The king should try to make the enemy retire into an unfavourable
position, and not allow him a moment's rest. He should deceive the
enemy.

(leaf 19) The resule will be the enemy’s defeat. ASvatthiman,
Drona’s son, deceitfully attacked the Pandavas by night, killed their
children, the Pafica Kumara, Dhystadyumna, Srikandi (sic.) and his/her
troops. The women were not killed but fed. The bhagavans Krpa
and Kta-varman helped him in his furious nocturnal attack while the
Pandavas had gone off on their tirthagamana (XVIII.69)

A king, desirous of having an elephant as his vehicle, should
choose a big and tall one, furnished with su-lakgana, This will give
victory to him and defeat to his enemy with all his family and
relations. Elephants are the friends of the kings, are the cause of
jaya-batru, provided the king takes at heart raja-niti and sa-rasa of
agama, When the king behaves well, his cakravarti-ship is well-
established; so is his superior position. Most of all he should love
his subjects, and his vehicles. The king should know everything, in
order that his ememy be defeated...,.,And so the world fosters su-
bbakti towards the king, the bbuvana fares well, and comfortable
(sva-stha) is the world during his reign.

Iti Kamandaka, to be striven after by a king intent on sukba-
vabya, for he (his book) is able to give urddbi to sarvépaya.

The preceding pages form not a complete translation (che state of
my text prevented it being this), but contains some 90% of the
contents. Even if one found the opportunity to spend 10 times as
much time upon this text as I have done here, by comparing all the
available MSS, even then it is doubeful whether the last 10% of
perfect understanding would be reached. I feel certain, however,
that ic is a better policy first to try to trace-a possible Skt. origin,

32 Kamandehiya Nitisira etc, in Old-lavanese

before spending now more time on this work; more important texts
and interesting problems lie ahead of us.

Te will have appeared chat this treatise is connected with Kam.
N. S. in so far as it mentions some of its topics, there dealt with at
great length, here generally taken in the same order.

Our text is of no help for the constitution of the text of Ske.
Kam. N.S. and even not much good in itself. I fail to see how it
can’ ever have satisfied anybody, even for which ends it has been
composed and copied. In the field of artha the III. Sarga of OJ
Ramayana is much better worded; in the field of niti the Sara-
samuccaya is incompatably more valuable and extensive.

b. The Name

The unsatisfactory work which we now know under the title of
Kimandaka can hardly have given much inspiration; still the face
cannot be denied that we meet Kimandaka attached to 2 other
Javanese literary works, one fairly old, the other rather modern, i.e,
Tantri Kamandaka, and Babad Pasir or Romance of Kamandake.

I. The Paficatantra in OJ, Modern-Jav. and Balinese shows a
considerable diffusion and variety; 4 different versions are known as
Tantri Bali, 2 Modern-Javanese work is called Cantri, older Javanese
recensions ate distinguished by the metre in which they have been
composed: Tanti Kadiri and Tantri Démua, and a prose recension
appears under the name of Tantri Kamandaka™.)

These older Javanese recensions have in common that they consist
only of the first prakarane, not preceded by the frame-story of the
King, his lazy sons and the clever Brahmana who tells the 5 tantras,
but by that of the root Nights (This last, as is well-known since E.
Cosquin wrote his study “Le Prologue-Cadre des Mille et une Nuits",

is also of Indian origin).

28 C.Hooykass, Tantri, de Middel-Javaansche Paficatantra-bewerking,
thesis Leiden 1929, specially ph. 20-21.

29 Revue Biblique, publiée par W'fcole Pratique d’tudes Bibliques des
Dominicains de Jérusalem, Janvier et Avril 1909; reprinted in Etudes Folklori-
ques, Recherches sur les Migrations des Contes Populaires et leur Point de

Google
Kamandakiya Nitisira etc. in Old-Javanese 33

Now Tantri Kamandaka"® has some 80 Slokas scattered through
its text, which are far from faultless, but ina number of cases could
be reconstructed and recognised. These Slokas however invariably
claim to be spoken by Bhagavin Basubhiga, known from che South
Indian Paficatantra by Durgasithha, Johannes Hertel in his days had
not yet much comment on this recension**, full details of which have
been made accessible by A. Venkatasubbiah’®, The problem remains:
why has the OJ prose recension of the Tantri been furnished with the
surname Kamandaka (who plays here no tole whatsoever) and not
Basubhiga, to whom the sayings on niti are ascribed? Sarkar, who
in his book'®. devotes Ch. XVI to the Tantri Kamandaka and other
beast-fables, was not able to suggest a solution.

Il, In Modern-Javanese’ kamandaka means ‘fabricated, trea-
cherous’, the verb riamandaka ‘to mislead, to fabricate’; this meaning
attached to the word is rather one-sided; the existence of the verb
points to popularity and frequency of use.

A. very well known donnée of Modern Javanese romances is the
male hero’s entering setvice at an unknown court, wiere he pretends to
be a commoner, disguises his real name and assumes a new name; in
Javanese amandaka. Only in one case the new name assumed is

Dépare, Paris 1922, pp. 265-348. —CE. also J. Prayluski, Le Prologue-Cadre des
Mille et une Nuits et le Théme du Svayathvara, Contribution a l'histoire des
Contes Indiens, Journal Asiatique, 1924, pp 101-37.

30 Tantri Kamandaka, Een Oudjavaansche Pafitjatantra-Bewerking in tekst
en vertaling uitgegeven door Dr. C. Hooykaas, Bibliotheca Javanica 2, Bandoeng
1931.

31 Das Paficatantra, Seine Geschichte und seine Verbreitung, Leipzig und
Berlin 1914,

32 The Pafcatantra of Durgasiitha in ZIl 6/2, 1928 pp. 255-318; 7/1,
1929 pp. 8-32; detail studies in ASIA MAIOR, III 3/4, 1926 pp. 307-20
(largely about Kamandaki); JBBRAS, 1V/« & 2, 1928 pp. 1-26; V, 1929
p. 1-10; ABORI, XV/1-2, 1934 pp. 39-64.

33 Indian Influences, pp. 357-383-

34 Gericke + Roorda (+ Vreede + Gunning), Javaansch-Nederlandsch Hand
woordenbock, Amsterdam-Leiden, I, 1901 p. 533; Dr. Th Pigeaud, Javaans-
Nederlands Handwoordenbock, Groningen/ Batavia 1938.

5
Google
34 Kamandakiya Nitisira etc, in Old-Javanese

chat of Kamandaka itself; no reason for this choice is given by the
author, In the course of the story, which is based upon The Beauty
and the Beast, the hero disguises himself as a monkey, Lutui
Kasarun**,- only to be the more comely, beautiful and desirable - after
retaking his original shape,

Now Javanese brides at their wedding-day are always embellished
to resemble as much as possible Devi Rati(h), and bridegrooms are
constantly compared with Kama, Kama-deva, Kama-jaya. This fact
pethaps may have contributed to the confusion which we meet in
texts in use for performances of the shadow-theatre, where Kama-jaya
and Kama-{n)daki are used alternatively*!; probably a false etymology
facilitated the assimilation.

To conclude: the frequent use of the word Kamandaka may have
influenced or even caused its addition, we do not know when, to that
of Tantri in the case where a distinguishing word was needed.

’
Ill. Niti-praya with its Sanskrit slokas

More often than not a Leiden MS. beginning with Kamandaka,
continues with Niti-praya of -prajas in one case (Cod. Or. 5088)
Juynboll® noted no transition. Van der Tuuk in his dictionary”
s.v. mentions ‘lessons for a king to be used against an enemy’, and
the extracts given by Brandes show 3 Slokas right at the beginning;
moreover Friederich** calls it Nitipraya ‘or Niti-Sastra’—sufficient
reasons to include this work in our investigations.

Consisting of 18 palm-leaves in U.L.L, Cod. Or. 4348 (I could
consult here again J,Soegiarto’s transcript, thanks to Professor Berg,
Leiden; moreover I could dispose of a transcript of the Kirtya-MS
No. 573. The Kittya MS No. 663, 41 leaves, same title, same

35. }-Knebel, Babad Pasir, volgens een Banjoemaasch Handschrift, Ver-
handelingen Bat, Gen, LI/1, 1898, (Dutch) translation p. 5; re-edition Balé
Pustaka, Batavia-C. 1931.

36 FS. Eringa, Loetocng Kasaroeng, een mythologisch verhaal uit West-
Java (eerste gedeelte), Bijdrage tot de Soendase Letterkunde, thesis Leiden 1949;
Verhandelingen Kon. Inst. The Hague,

37 Gericke-Roorda; Tjan Tjoe Siem, Hoe Koeroepati zich zijn Vrouw
verwerft, thesis Leiden 1938, p, 11 bottom, note 59.

Google
Kamandakiya Nitisira etc. in Old-Javancse 35

contents, for a considerable part uses its own words, has no slokas
except one, which does not occur in 573, but which I inserted in my
précis on its place as No. 13), it begins with

(leaf 1) Awighnam asta, immediately followed by :
Jayaneu Srota bhamantvam ——-vahyantu hita saikate
nuragajana Satrunam lakvaneu Nitiprayantam - (1)

So sounds the Sloka, to be listened to by those desirous of sukbe-
vabya, who should study sa-rasa of the Niti-praya, with the phala that
they ate able to conquer their Satru and carn anurdga (from) the whole
world,

In the past a bbagevan, Ratna-bhiimi, lived in an extremely well-
kept hermitage, Sthagana- (or: Swagana-)dipa, together with his son
Bhagavin Raveya; they knew raja-niti and sa-rasa of the Niti-praye,
with the Slokas and padartha.

Nirtatvancu Ratnabhumye —upadya Suparka-devo
prastavan pura yoddyayet —Indra-kulan tatvam rajye. (2)

Now we will let Bhagavan Ratnabhumi pass; let us speak about

Rahaden Suparka-deva, king of Ayodhya, a royal descendant,

lamanis rajabhasike tahambuh rajya-patnyante (3)
who already during considerable time had not had his abbiseke, and
who had no raja-patni. Pondering about the engaging of a brabmana
for his abbiseka, he went a-hunting with his retinue. When he
arrived in Sthagana-dipa, he was welcomed by the bbagavans and
asked about his aims,

(leaf 2) The king asks for water only, but the bhagavins offer him
and his retinue an excellent meal, after which they entertain him with
(che spiritual food) Aji Raja-niti, concerning the methods how to enjoy
things; the king spends his night in the hermitage.

Next morning the king asks bh. Ratnabhimi to administer him
the abbiseka, and to become his purobite.

Bh, Ratnabhiimi postpones the abhiseka, because the king had not
yet married, but was prepared to give him che saiskara he asked for,
told him to return to his palace and enjoy bbogdpabhoge, ratna mani-
maya. This done, he should not choose holy water; after having

Google
36 Kamandakiya Nitisara etc. in Old-Javanese

cleansed himself, he should anwbwn, ask for (be satisfied with, wear
on the head?) pufpa kaki (ower for the feet?)

pratamanta susruyatam (4)
He was guru-suiruge and was given any anugraba, which could be
given to a kgatriya.

After some time he asked permission to return to his palace, and
was welcomed by his army.

(leaf 3) Now we will let pass Raden Suparka; let us speak about
Aji Waabaa, prabbw in Danawu-awu:

Nantarajye sopotrake nandawwan prastavan kumeh
Brahma-kula-vanéajfieyah danavanuraga praje. : (5)

There was aking, Aji Wafbaa by name, prabbu of Danawu-awu,
su-putra (an excellent son; or: having good sons; 1 chink the author
means: the son of the highest-born queen), brabme-kula-varisa-ja,
viryavin and  jandnurdge. He planned, in accordance with his
mantris, to attack Ayodhya in a week's time.

Raden Suparka-deva heard about the plans and went to consult
the dcarya purobita.

Bh. Ratnabhumi was engaged in teaching his pupils, bh, Raveya
not far off, when R, Suparka-deva approached with perfect self-humilia-
tion,

The bbagavans welcomed the king cordially and asked him about
his prayojana,

When Raden Suparka-deva had told his worries, bh. Ratnabhimi
told ‘the king’s elder brother’ bh. Raveya to teach the Niti-praya to
the king, and he spoke:

Nitiprayentvam anaike pirvvam Visguh mahapunyam
tvam yantu prajamaloke Krsna Dvaipayanam idam. ©

There exists (a work) called Nitipraye, made by Bhattira Visnu,
revealed on earth to ci bh. Dvaipayana, who at last was called bh.

Byasa.
Listen to the words of the astra:
Khaga nilaneusavake Satire pindamiyukeam
jiianendre prajayet ranam —tatha kulvandvagyanyaset @)

Google
Kamandakiya Nitisara etc. in Old-Javanese 37

Acking should embody a crow and cock, when he wishes to
conquer enemies and to rule over subjects. We begin by dealing with
the crow. The crow causes worry when cawing, but he does not
announce death; he only gives a warning not to forget it.

Do not find guilt with guiltless people, do not kill, give life to
and do not let pass people who are sw-doga, ie. do not remove the
spititual men and bbujaigas, for they know about the people’s good
and evil (deeds). Punish (an offence with regard to ordinary wine of
the country or pumpkins by indemnification with wine and pumpkins;
663), a financial crime by a fine, a capital crime with death. Follow
sa-rasa of the agama, by all means maintain danda,

(leaf 4) Caksu-dibya-nila-khage. (8)

‘Asa crow, you should know about far and near. Learn how to
help poor and diseased subjects. Learn their gunas and do your best
for other people’s gunas. Welcome and protect those far off and those
those hit by worries, rain and heat.
Compose your body-guard from troops far-off; remove those who are

nearby,,..by day and by nigh

near, and take neat those who are far off. Keep your enemies at a
distance, broaden your territories when territories have gone lost,
reconquer them. If there are people who promise to oppress
territory of the enemy, give them their expenses, do not conciliate
them; when the basic circumstances are changed, give them (their
expenses) similarly then, for important is che basis for people in
reigning tertitory of enemies (?).

Widen the forces’ buildings when they ate insignificant.

Is the country well-peopled at the boundaries, than it is also well-
peopled in the centre. If the country is densely-populated at the boun-
daties, than it is not well-populated in the centre.

Regale people, be they ill and hungry, ... most of all courageous
men, people with a large family, people of high birth, brahmins, for
they bear no grievance against gifts. Such people, to whom lands and
gifts should be given, as a resule will give you good reward for the
gifts, for they may be expected to be grateful and will certainly restore
life to the person they are indebted to (?).

Moreover the erow is sex-conscious. Do not use obscene language,
do not be addicted to women. Be sure of yourself and inspire fear in

Google
38 Kamandakiya Nitisara etc. in Old-Javanese

the army, for the protection of women and children and the strong
position of family and descendants depends upon a man who is well-
obeyed.

In the case of people who have too many elephants, horses, cows,
water-buffaloes, goats—do not covet them, for still you only are the
owner, since they follow (obey) you; you are adorned (by them), you
are pleased, for great is your pleasure when you move, accompanied
by people in fine garments, with superior horses as conveyances, for
they contribute to your splendour. Who else than you will form the
object of discussion? for nobody will cause difficulties to you, for they
are contented in mind.

But when you deprive them of their pleasures, that is misery; their
pleasure wanes, specially with reference to horses. When you cake
away many of them, the inevitable consequence in the case of was
will be that, deprived of horses, many of them will certainly die.
Who is then the loser? ... When the troops are disgruntled, their
lord will without doubt be abandoned. Many choose the other side
and become enemies. Without doubt (the king) will be conquered
by lack of troops.

(leafs) Part of the medbd of the crow is also knowledge about
para-chidra of the buddbi of the bala, and the appreciation of the
panditas. (The king) should give dane-punya and with a friendly
mind he should speak benevolent words..

Rahaden Suparka-devg. now asks to be informed about the medha
of the cock.

Bh, Raveya answers: lend your ears to a different subject :
Purihtetep Sarirentvam _varagati masasandhye
mamariksyantu kolante  medantu wvatsasakyanam. (9)

ie. The Cock knows about naliké, knows about the arrival of
inferior and superior (2); in the same way he who governs people
should scrutinise svabuddbi externally and internally.

Moreover a cock likes company, behaves in a stimulating way (?),
and when things go wrong, is mot ashamed (?); in che same way
when he has many wives, one should not betray by signs his love
for a woman, (ot) when love and affection wane. When love

Google

Kamandakiya Nitisira etc. in Old-Javanese 39

promises to be realised, the enjoying of love should be accompanied by
pearls and gold for the pleasure of other people (wives?), who then
also feel loved, though they all of them are only addressed in a
friendly fashion and kindly spoken to, For a woman who is friendly
addressed and kindly spoken to, is satisfied in mind, Therefore one
should not make his love visible. When it is visible that one loves a
woman, as long as she behaves as one in high spitits, her markba
will be the more, she will ask that her whims be obeyed, and she
desires to rule her husband; therefore do not give signs of your love.
Most of all when you ate aftaid of women, then you are no longer
a human creature; you will certainly be conquered when the enemy
attacks you, for you will be despised by your subjects (?).

A cock is courageous to the point of fighting an adversary on
whatever terrain: in ravines, rivers, forests, even in inaccessible
places like mountains and oceans, he is not afraid as long as he can
fight—that you should follow also, for you are as a young leaf (?) as
long as the moment of death has not yet arrived. —

This is the cock’s medba; now I will tell you about dharmista of
stri and bala:

Mazngaletutyakseyuddheh —tatantuhinanayenam
priyajfie-dharmesta-hite nadantvam satyonam gandheh, (10)

When you desire battle, by all means be clever, have sufficient
naya, by all means be buddbi-dbarma, entertain your army to its
sukba,
faithful and courageous—then you deserve the name of a man who

by all means have santose of your manas, be reliable,

binds the world; which place could exist, unobtainable for your army?
for it has dharma as its mentality.

You should foster dharma as well at audiences as when entertain-
ing the forces; instruct them in dbarma and tattvopadess. They
should learn the dharma of yuddba and should-be given good advice,
(leaf 6) for troops certainly consider their lord as their guru, and
dbarma-bchaviour raises their courage. Though tamab is not alien
to them, they work the kyta of the nagara, because all of them follow
dbarma; it will be difficult for the enemy to outdo (?) them, for the
gods love them as they practise bbiksw-ship and have dharma as their

Google
40 Kamandakiya Nitisira etc. in Old-Javanese
mentality. Your Majesty will be attacked; you have numerous

enemies.
In the giving of presents you should not be too late, and you
should not already be attacked by enemies when you have only

reached the stage of giving food and garments to your people.
Whether you prepare for dharma or for battle; do not forbear to give

away raje-dravya, raja-bbarana, raje-peni, rice and grounds,...do not
deplore them, for they will certainly be lost when you are conquered
in battle and slain, In case of defeat and death, great will be your
reward; you will enter heaven, mix with bbettéras and be looked
after by vidyadbaras and vidyadbaris.
So as a result of free-handedness_you reap praise from che army...,
If Vidhi is favourable, you win in the yuddbe, and your sukbe
will be the greater, as also your wealth: that which previously had
been spent, will return to you five-fold: you will obtain superior
women, everything of the best quality,...
Tatan Sure valayuddhah stavaneu bavargena— (11)

In war, one should not only have confidence on courage, for if you
cannot expect decent behaviour from your troops and faithfulness
towards their lord, you will be conquered...

In enjoyment, one should not only have confidence in possessions,
but also satisfy the wishes of the army, and be careful in complying
with their mentality. For in seeking a refugee soldiers and servants
observe the lord’s mind, and the lord observes the servants’ mind.
by all means follow se-rasa

Only by all means practise para-chidr
of the Kamandaka.

The behaviour of the lord has the character of (the proverbial
saying; 663) ‘a sick elephant, a heavily-loaded ship". How to take
care of an elephant, once it is infuriated? The only means is assum-

ing the mentality of a basti. In assuming the mentality of the army,
the lord is comparable to a saratbi, the army to the elephant in fury.
Daily mounted upon, it is obedient, but when one neglects to
take care of it, it becomes ferocious and only desires to kick. Know-
ing the nature of the elephant, he makes it kick a blazing fire, and
it will be obedient because it has learnt something from him,

Google
Kamandakiya Nitisira etc. in Old-Javanese 41

When an army is not paid attention to, its fierceness is awe-inspiting;
better to face a numerous enemy, whose danger is known already.
When they attack together, they certainly do not worry about
their lives. However numerous the enemy may be, they will not be
overpowered by him, for it has not to do with numbers when they
escape their attacks (?)
saficaya vadva balena (12)

When the vadvas with all their family have assembled, present
all of them

(leaf 7) with gifts, try your troops, in small units (?), ask them
their conetibution individually; pick out the most courageous troops
who despise the question of life and death and who promise not to
desert you in the rane. Bue do not take them; later on, when you
have come to the battlefield, you make gugunuiians (imitation-
mountains), and you say to the eroops, first of all the tanda-mantris:

“Now the enemy has attacked me. To all of you I gave gifts.
Presently be tough on the battle-field,...Let us hope for Vidhi’s
favour. When we win the battle, be careful with my gold, I will
give swkbe to all of you,...”—Such should be your admonition to the
army.

“And I ask your contribution. All my people who have promised
not to desert in the rans, will be tried. I will not take them, however,
Igive them money, and bring them together in a place. After
arrival on the battle-field, I make a gugunuiian. Presently those who

stand by their promise, I reward. All those who have promised, I
present with garments and cloths.

When, however, they die in the battle, and their wives become
suttee, I take the costs upon myself, and their children and children’s
children, I will honour and

Those however who do not stand by their promise and desert from
the battlefield, throwing away theie weapons, I will kill, and make an

example of them, and no compensation will be given to thei children
and grandchildren.” —

So you must speak to your troops. After you have given gifts
and garments, admonish the troops.

6
Google -
4 Kamandekiya Nitisira etc. in Old Javanese

Morteover you should cross the mountainous masses and give dana-
pnye to the mabi-pandita, all those who have obtained Sakti and
practise tapa. Tell them to perform pija, bhiste-yajia, (manusa-
yajfa and deva-yajfia; 663), boma-traya for your own person, the tandae
mantris and the whole atmy; prayascitta must be done on their behalf,
by giving gifts to the maba-panditas. There exists no other retribu-
tion for adbyatmaka,,....They are the beloved ones of the gods; they
should be given everything they like.

Having done those things, you should prepare for battle. Prevent
that the enemy is earlier than you, Make a disposition and check (?)
the flying of your troops. Do not make changes, do not...your going
to the front, to the right, to the left, to the neck, to the middle, to the
rear; give admonition and prevent changes in marching, pay attention
by day and by night.

Those with the gugunurian you should make to go in the middle,
not far from your front. Take care, by day and by night, for the
food of your troops; give it to be borne by peasants and bearers whom
you tell to march in the rear. Prevent turmojls and hasty marches,
Be careful when underway and in the night-bivouacs, as if you were
already near to the enemy.

Suppose there are observers from the side of the enemy, let the
troops not be seized by panic, for that would put fear into the army,
which should fiercely attack the enemy.

When rest is sought in the bivouac, it should not be too near the
night, for that would be too late for a good lay-out. The place for
rest should be near an important stream, wich many trees. In bathing
one should use a sheltered place, safe from attacks of the enemy (?).

(leaf 8) After arrival in the territory of the enemy avoid negligence,
and when taking rest, make it known by voice to your troops, for the
stratagems of the enemy might cause difficulties; and you should not
allow them to infilerate amongst your ranks.

There exists a difficule place, which I remember from the past,
Talaga Patikuta by name; try to find it out, for it is favourable as a
battlefield there. After arrival there, make your biyouacs at the
lake’s border, When you see that the enemy has come, permit ‘him
to cross, but do not allow all of them to cross. Feign that he is equal

Google
Kamandakiya Nitisira etc. in Old-Javanese 43

to your troops, attack him violently with all your troops, order your
troops altogether in one great rolling mass. Inspire panic, but do not
chase them in a hurry. If they return, feign fear (follow a stratagem
which I do not completely understand), In that way the large as well
as the small masses will be conquered, provided they do not enter
your ranks, and obviously they are not attacked as long as they keep
together.—

Thus spoke bh. Raveya, admonishing Raden Suparka-deva.

The king accepted the wise lessons, asked for leave to return home,
thanked and praised the bhagavans and went forth, accompanied by
his tande-mantris,

The following morning, in his palace, he convoked his tanda-
mantris, the twoops and peasants, together, gave them gifts,
bbarana, raja-peni, ratna-kaficana, garments, all of the finest quality,
rice and ground. This was accompanied by deva-paja. Eating and
drinking the people enjoyed themselves during four days, We do not
mention the gifts to the maba-panditas, Saivas and saugatas, as far as the
remotest pilings up of mountains, first of all the dcdrya purobita and
Bh. Raveya—all of them were presented with dana-punya, rija-bbiisana,
raja-peni, vastradi, ratna katicana, all of superior quality.

Now he took care of boma and prayascitta for the whole army.

All musical instruments, mydariga bheri, were beaten and sounded
together with the Saikhas which were blown; music alternated with
loud shouts, The whole army did not stop eating and drinking and
amusing itself; becoming garjita they promised victory on the battle-
field. Those used for the gugnurian promised the same.

All Bh. Raveya’s admonitions were well followed up.

(leaf 9) Aji Waibai learns that he has been forestalled by the
rahadyan of Ayodhya, who has already reached Talaga Pafkura (n).
He is atyanta-garjita, for he had planned to march next day. The
whole numerous army is in a hurry to have an encounter. They go
to the battlefield, after 24 hours, having passed the night on their
way. They arrive at Talaga Paikura(n), and ate very glad on seeing
that the enemy appears not to be numerous. Without concentrating

Google
44 Kamandakiya Nitisira etc. in Old-Javanese

their troops—for they are perfectly misled—and without taking rest,
they immediately engage in crossing.

The warriors from Ayodhya are well-ordered and prepared for the
encounter. Their music makes a thundering noise, they shout loudly
and at the appropriate moment they shower a rain of missiles upon
the enemy, who has just been engaged in crossing the water.

Overwhelmed by the troops from Ayodhya, suffering extremely
heavy losses, the troops fly to their lord. Followed on the heels by the
well-organised troops from Ayodhya, they are unable to resist their
furious attack. When the troops from Ayodhya have reached Aji
Wanban, they double the fierceness of their attack. Aji Waabaa's
missiles miss their effect and he is killed, on his elephant. The
troops shuddered and were crushed without essaying a counterattack,
The survivors sought individually a refuge in their capital and asked
for their lives; all submitted and gave the raja-dravya and raje-peni to
Rahaden Suparka-deva. This last collected an immense booty from
the palaces of Aji Waabai and those killed in the battle, sarva-raja-
bbarana, bbiganadi, ratna kaficana, artha, sarva-milya, and all the

cattle, water.
beautiful women, first of all Aji Wafbai’s daughter, Devi Yajfavati
by name, and his concubines.

uffaloes, cows, elephants, chariots and horses. And the

The subjects ask Rahaden Suparka-deva to rule the country. After
a regent has been installed, the king returns homeward with his
prisoners and booty. The palace-guardians and women are very glad
and immediately begin festivities by day and by night.

He however took measures to procure the gifts for the venerable
icarya purobita and for Bh. Raveya; then he set out with his mantris.

(leaf 10) The king found the rsi, attended upon by Bh, Raveya,
engaged in stuti. He wiped the rsi’s feet and offered him the most
precious booty, doing the same to Bh. Raveya.

The hermit accepts the presents gratefully and offers a meal to the
king. A teal banquet follows, with much talk about the battle. The
181 is satisfied and gives presents to the king and all his followers.

After the meal Bh. Ratnabhimi expresses his satisfaction for
the presents given to him. He would regret if the aste-guna were

Google
Kimandakiya Nitisara etc. in Old-Javanese 45

not completed (and in Kirtya MS, No. 663 recites a Soka, not to be
found in the Leiden MSS)

Pancaksaram midam punyam —_pavitram papa-nasanam
papakoti sahasranam dagda bavat kastavat. (13)

He praises the king’s free-handedness, coming down like the tain,
not only over the warriors, but also over those who guarded the palace
and capital. Rightly so, for in the case of a defeat they would also
have been made prisoners, slaves, and shared the evils of the defeated.

The ‘elder brother’ will give the abbiseka to the king, for the kyta
of the country.

The king asks leave to withdraw, which is granted, but not
without good counsel, not to forget the essence of spiritual life and to
enjoy the material sukba.

Raden Suparka-deva promises to do this, and in his turn thanks
the rsis, affirming that he feels himself bereft without his spiritual
masters and dark at heart, for their humble servant has not yet learned
about the depository of death and life; he knows only about ‘Vira-jfa’
and nagara-krama, but when it comes to death, how must Your
Excellency the Rsi’s son behave?

(leaf 11) The mpu (boss, lord, teacher) tells the king to reappear
before him after he has distributed rewards to his army and his subjects,
nistamadbyéttama, avoiding extreme pleasure and displeasure, taking
the remainder for himself, profiting from his way of distributing
before the battle.

Raden Suparka-deva reverentially takes leave from the bbagavans,
and returns to his capital, He and the army praise Bh, Ratnabhiimi
continually.

Next day the king gives audience and distributes presents, from
his P, M. Arya Virasitha down to the humblest porter. Great
festivities ensue in which His Majesty takes part.

The following morning the king appears before Bh. Ratnabhiimi,
who is in his offering place; his jana is ripe, his dhyana has no
varana, his yogiivara-ship does not deviate, but is only directed
towards the Siva-pada. Together with Bh. Raveya, Raden Suparka
with seva bhakti appears in the offering place.

Google
46 Kamandakiya Nitisira etc. in Old-Javanese

Bh. Ratnabhiimi promises the king, that now he will reveal che
origin of existence to him.

(leaf 12) (This mystic lesson, falling outside the scope of a study
on niiti, has been skipped over here)

(leaf 13) After Bh. Ratnabhiimi has finished his instruction/reve-
lation, he is delivered and goes to Sivaloka. The king, Bh. Raveya
and the pupils are astonished that Bh. Ratnabhiimi has vanished
without leaving behind his mortal remains and praise the delivered
rie

(leaf 14) R. Suparka-deva, after bh. Ratnabhimi’s moksa, takes his
leave from Bh. Raveya, returns to his palace, has a sisbasana made,
takes care of home and. prayaécitta. He invites Bh. Raveya, obtains
his abbiseka, is now called Sri Maharaja Suparka-deva and is acknow-
ledged by everybody. Princess Yajfiavati he takes as his paraméivari.

Now Bh, Raveya in his turn dies and arrives at Indra-bhavana, where
Bhattéra Indra is extremely pleased with him. Bh, Raveya picks
flowers, brings them to his nose and throws them one by one on a
heap. By chance he hits Bh. Indra, who remarks that perhaps a
parakeet might have dropped the flower. Bh. Raveya sees his fault,
asks for forgiveness, but Bh. Indra

(leaf 15) can only console him with the statement that his embodi-
ment as a parakeet will not last too long.

Bh. Raveya, now a parakeet which has not its equal in beauty,
able moreover to wccarana of veda Santi mantra, flies to Ayodhya and
is caughe by a hunter, who presents the extraordinary bird (as is his
duc) to Maharaja Suparkadeva. At court everybody is astonished
when hearing the bird sing veda mantra, and the king takes it with
him into the inner apartments.

After having observed the king for some time, the bird finds fault
at the king’s using gandbas he resolves that he only might point the
king’s attention to it. He addresses the king, introducing himself
as the son of the man who administered the sbbiseka to him,
Bh. Raveya.

Maharaja Supatka, astonished, asks whence this embodiment as a
parakeet?

(leaf 16) The parakeet explains what has happened.

Google
Kamandekiya Nitisira etc. in Old-lavanese 47

The king asks to be taught concerning Bhattira Indra’s doings.

The parakeet tells about Indra’s heaven, ending by saying that
Indra uses jébad (civet) by way of gandba.

Questioned by the king, the parakeet answers by giving detailed
particulars about its making, ending by mentioning sadur.

(leaf 17) The king, now asking what sadur is, receives ample
information, but then his curiosity is raised by rawis, and again the
parakeet sets out upon a long explanation. Since he ends by mention-
ing srébad, the king asks how it is made. The parakect answers,
advising the king to follow his prescription, which’ will contri-
bute to his eternal glory.

(leaft8) The parakeet concludes by saying:

Kulehigakayoddhyake antakalusa kagajiie
sopane miilye svah loke matvai Sri naya homantram. (14)

The parakeet now feels that his time for returning to Indra’s
heaven has come; singing veda mantra he is ceremonially thrown
into the fire and returns to heaven, where he continues to enjoy the
fruits of his previous penance. And the king continues to enjoy a
righteous and pleasant palace-existence.

Iii Nitipraya samapta, to be practised by those desirous for swkba-
vabya, able to conquer their Satra,

Om Sarasvatye namah, om Ganapataye namab, omn ri Gurubbyo
namab,

This work by its slokas, use of Ske. technical terms and names,
suggests an Indian origin, but it has suffered not inconsider-
able alterations. I would be most grateful if an Indian colleague
could trace its possible origin; such a discovery would greatly contri-
bute to the understanding of this old text. In Java it has been
popular, perhaps even authoritative, and is recast in modern from
(metric)**; the quotations in Raffles** and Sarkar‘? are taken from
this Modern-Javanese Nitipraja or Pannitipraja.

Te does not contribute to the reconstruction of the Skt. Kam. N.S.

38 A.C. Vreede, Catalogus van de Javaansche en Madoereesche Hand-
schriften der Leidsche Universiteits-Bibliotheek, Leiden 1892, pp. 283-5,

37% 377+ 39 The History of Java, (and imp.), I, pp. 305-7, 351.
40 Indian Influences pp, 89-91.

Google
48 Kamandakiya Nitisira etc. in Old-Javanese
IV. Artha and Niti in the O] Ramayana

The last two minor OJ works on artha and nisi were neither helpful
to elucidate the text of Skt. Kam. N.S. not very valuable in themselves,
Theie prosaic form, like chat of Tantri Kamandaka, and still mote the
parvas, makes a Skt. prototype probable. And they continued to
enjoy popularity, if not authority.

The OJ Ramayana’ for more than the first half has had Bhatti’s
Ravana-vadba as its prototype. This fact enables us to decide
that Rama’s speech to Bharata, IIL, 53-86, is a Javanese interpolation.
In the atticle ‘Bharata’s Departure, a passage on Arthasastra in the
OJ Ramayana Kakawin’ (Journal of the Oriental Institute, Baroda)
T have requested the help of my Indian colleagues for tracing a
possible origin of these 34 quatrains.

Vibhisana’s succession in Laaké, (XXIV. 43-86), a passage on
Nitisastra in OJRK, also sent to Baroda, might in toto have been
borrowed from an Indian source, though in this case no interpolation
could be proved. This passage is very popular, leads its own indepen
dent life in Modern Javanese literature as Asta Brata (Cat. Vreede)
or has been incorporated into (better: forms the key-stone to) an
ethical work dating from the early Muslim days: Niti-éruti (Cat.
Vreede).

For reasons of practical utility I must ask my readers to consule
my two complete translations; moreover, these two fragments are not
or are only indirectly helpful for the reconstruction of the Ske. text of
Kam. N, S.

V.. Sara-samuccaya Tutur (Ethical Work)

[The lawbook, also called Sarasamuccaya, remains out
of the picture here; we ate only concerned with that SS,
which has added Tutur to its name in order to make
clear that it is concerned with ethical lessons or maxims].

Already when Dr. H. H. Juynboll had started writing his catalogues
of Javanese etc. MSS of the University Library, Leiden, he invited
attention to Sarasamuccaya in a study entitled ‘An Old-Javanese

Google

Kamandakiya Nitisira etc. in Old-Javanese 49

Collection of Indian Maxis’, He who had edited Atrame-vase-,
Muusale- and Prasthinika-parvan,*® and was to be the editor of Adi-
parvan‘* and Virdte-parvan*®, remarks that the Ske. words, generally
so corrupt in other OJ works e.g. Mahabharata, Brabmanda-purina
and Ustara-kinda, have been so well preserved here‘?, and that the
Hlokas can usually be reconstructed? In those days he was
proof-reading his Glossary on the OJ Rimayana.t* At the same time
he states that the work has a definite lexicographical value, as the OJ
translation is generally rather accurate.‘ He then proceeds to present
several maxims in theit correct form and scrutinises the value of the
Jav. paraphrase (for often this cerm is better than ‘translation’), He
was also interested in the Indian origin of the élokas, where Béhelingk’s
Indische Spriiche .also rendered good service. Juynboll states chat
most of the recognised élokes have been borrowed from Anusésana-
parva, ‘which has gone lost in Java’ as he expresses himself, but also’
from Adi,- Udyoga,- tri Santi- and Asvamedba-parvan, from
Harivaniée, Hitopdesa, Paficatantra and even Manava-dbarma-sastras?

Juynboll in those days could not know that this text in Bali
moreover has undergone the same glorious fate as the Sabbi-parva,
the local recension of the Paficatantra and many other works, chat
it has been recast in Balinese language in a metrical form‘’. Neither
could he suspect that even a new prose-version in Balinese (of the
first half at least) would see the light of day‘*. These two recensions
ate so many signs of popularity. When working in Bali, which is

4h op. cit., note 5, vol. II p. 193.

42 Een Oud-Javaansche Vertaling van Indische Spreuken, BKI Vi/8=52,
1901 p. 393-98. :

43 Drie Boeken van het. Oudjavaansche Mahabharata, thesis Leiden 1893.

44 The Hague 1906.

45 The Hague 1912.

46 Kawi-Balineesch-Nederlandsch Glossarium op het Oudjavaansche

Ramiyana, The Hague 1902.
47 Sirasamuccaya Parikan, MS Kirtya Liefrinck-Van der Tuuk (Singaradja,
Bali), No, 2364.
48 Tucur Sarasamuccaya, MS Kirtya Liefrinck-Van der Tuuk (Singaradja,
Bali), No. 1893.

7

’

Google
50 Kimandakiya Nitisira etc. in OldJevancse

rich in MSS but destitute of printed books in its own language,
before the war, I asked which work should be printed first of all;
the answer was: Sirasamuccaya Tutur.. This high prestige of the
Sarasemuceays was known already to Friederich, in whose days the
copies were still reserved for brahmanical use*,

These circumstances, and, moreover its bulk (six times that of
Kamandaha oc Nitipraya) and the availability of a considerable number
of MSS,‘ described as good,®® made the investigation an interesting
task. Consequently, when invited by the Director of the International
Academy of Indian Culture to be his guest and edit an OJ text of my
choice for the inauguration of the Indonesian section of his Sata-
pitaka-plan, I gladly accepted the offer and chose SS, a choice with
which my colleague Raghuvira agreed.

Before my departure from London, working through the three
Leiden MSS, I found that Juynboll bad not overestimated this text; and
the vatious readings, registered here, enabled a thorough Sanskritist as
is Raghuvira to reconstruct the slokas neatly without exception, The
rough constitution of the OJ text and translation which I left at Nagpur
will, it is hoped, help him to complete the Ske. side of our work,
which was to be his responsibility.

This co-authorship, however, I am afraid, makes it at the moment
less expedient to remark more about this extraordinary text than the
publicly accessible results quoted above have already been made known.

For the moment I can only say that these 517 maxims are the best
source for OJ Niti-literature hitherto known.

49. Leiden 3, Djakarta 4.
50 op. cit., note 5, vol. Il, pp. 275-77-

Google
Central Asia : The Crucible of Cultures

By Dr. BuopHAa Prakasit

“On the Central Asian ‘roundabout’ routes converged from the
Tigris-Euphrates Basia via che Iranian Plateau, from India through
the passes over the Hindu-Kush, from the Far East via the Tarim
Basin and from an adjacent Eurasian Steppe, that had taken the
place and inherited the conductivity of a now desiccated ‘Second
Mediterranean’, whose former presence there is attested by its frag-
mentary survival in the Caspian, the sea of Aral, and Lake Balkash”*,
Hence from the earliest times known ¢o history, this numiniferous
region has been the confluence, where different streams of commerce and
colonization met and merged, and a crucible, in which the cultures,
they carried, were brewed in a cosmopolitan amalgam of art, religion
and philosophy.

Since the thicd and perhaps the fourth millennium B.C, we get
glimpses of a civilization of the Steppes having its own art-style,
that is, in all probability, the work of the Indo-Europeans. Some
centuries before the dawn of the Christian era the Scythians and
Sarmatians belonging to this stock constituted the sedentary popula.
tion of Chinese Turkestan and pushed up to the frontiers of the
Chinese province of Kan-su and even penetrated into Mongolia figur-
ing in the confederacy of the Hiung-nu and imparting their costume
and armaments to them. Through these nomads the sedentary com-
munities of China, India, Iran etc. adopted their custume of pants,
bele and boots.?

The routes of Centeal Asia were the mecting-places of Hellenic,
Indian and Chinese cultures long before the journey of Chang-K’iea
in 126 B.C. At Nojn-ula to the North of Urga in Outer Mongolia

1 Amold J. Toynbee, Study of History, vol, VIII, pp. 91-92,

2 Berthold Laufer, Chinese Clay Figures, Prolegomena on the History of
Defensive Armou: (Chicago 1914) pp. 218 fi, M.I. Rostovetzei, Iranians and
Greeks in South Russia (Oxford 1922) PI, XXII; Paul Pelliot, La Haute
Asie, p. 7.

Google
52 Central Asia: The Crucible of Cultures

Col. Kozlov has discovered the tombs of Hiung-nu chiefs in which
remnants of Chinese silks, jades and lacquer, decorated in a style of
Iranian inspiration, and fabrics beating Hellenic influence, that appear
to have been imported from the shores of the Black Sea, have been
found. Similarly, in the Ili Basin to the North of the Western T'ien-
Shan the coins of Bosphores of circa 400 B.C. have come to light.
These discoveries prove that the routes of the Steppes to the North
and South of the Gobi linked the West and the East even before the
4th century B.C.

India had vital connections with Central Asia from very early times.
‘The Epic traveller crossed the Himalayas and found stretching before
his eyes the “ocean of sand” (‘balwkarnava), which apparently repre-
sents the deserts of Gobi and Taklamakan. Beyond that the “lofty
plateau” (twiigayatab) of Central Asia rose before him. After scaling
it he reached the “Northern Sea (Uttarah payasim nidbib) where the
hazily luminous goddess (yémaprabbadevi), which perhaps denotes
Aurora Borealis, greeted his sight.’ In later literature some interesting
references are made to the variety of terrain and routes which a
traveller had to traverse. At some places the narrow and steep
mountain tracks could be negotiated with the help of goats (sjapathé),
at others the precipitous faces of the cliffs could be scaled by
throwing up a rope-ladder surmounted with a diamond, drill that bored
the rock and stuck to it (Sa%ikwpatha). In the marshes of the Lob-nor
one had to hop with the help of reeds and bamboos growing in it
(venupatha) and some rivers like the Khotan and the Yarkand were
crossed by clutching at the bamboos growing on their banks, which the
high winds bent towards the opposite side (varhSe-patha). Sometimes
the terrain was so forbidding that there was no alternative but to fly
over it with akind of parachute (chatrapatha) as explained in the
Saddbammapajjotika, the commentary on the Mabiniddesa.*

In this country of sprawling deserts and galloping rivers, swallow-
ing marshes and frightening mountains and yawning steppes and

3 HL C, Raychoudhury, Proceedings of the Indian History Congress,
Calcutta (1939).
4 Moticandra, Sarthavabe, pp 134-145.

Google
Central Asia: The Crucible of Cultures 53

humming solitudes Indian culture has left an indelible imprint. To
take one instance, let us approach the name of Arjuna that is associated
with che dynastic history of the states of this territory ina variety
of ways, Arjuna has been treated asthe founder of many royal
families ruling over the oasis-states of the Tarim Basin and numerous
kings have been named after him. The first king of Yen K’i
(Agnidesa), modern Karashahr, known to history, was Shoen (cir. 75
A.D.), whose name isa Chinese transcription of Arjuna, A later
king of Karashahe was called Li P’o-shoen, whose name is conserved
in the Tsen-che-t’ong-k'ien in the forms of Sien-shoen, which stands
for Senirjuna. Dr. Liiders has discovered a Sanskrit work in this region
which records the reception given to the Buddhist fraternity by aking of
Karashahe (Agniévara) named Indrarjuna for the spritual benefit of the
line of his ancestors beginning with Candrarjuna.* In fact, the word
Arjuna isa regular component of the names of the kings of Karashahr.
Besides Karatshahr, Kucd was also ruled by a line of kings with whose
names the title Po (white), that stands for Arjuna, meaning also (white),
was invariably associated. The king of Kucd vanquished by Lu-koang is
named Po Shoen (Ch’oen) in Chinese works. This name occurs twice
and represents “Shoen” (Jun) or Atjuna (the white). In the narrative of
the Chinese writer Yen-yang-tsa-tsu, the hero is named A-chu-eul which
is a variant of Arjuna and in a manuscript in Tokharian B dialect pre-
served in the Leningrad Museum there is a reference to a king Ksemar-
cuna or Kéemarjuna. The literature and traditions connected with the
name of Arjuna were so widely prevalent in these regions that the Turks
also gave them a place in their lore after settling “there. In the
Uigur redaction of the Hidimbavadba, a part of which has been
published and translated by F.W.K. Miiller, the name of Arjuna
occurs as Arcuni.’ According to Prof. Sylvain Lévi, this episode of the
Mabiabbarata owed the privilege of entering into the Turkish world to
the presence of the name of Arjuna in it, who was regarded as the
eponymous founder of the dynasties of the Central Asiatic oasis-states.!

5 H, Liiders, Westere Beitrage Zur Geschichte und Geograpbie von
Ostturkestan (1930) p. 28. 6 FLW. Miller, Uigurica Il (1911).
7 Sylvain Lévi, Fragments de Textes Koutcheéns, p. 23.

Google
54 Central Asia; The Crucible of Cultures

In the light of this close association of Arjuna wich the Tarim Basin, it
is plausible to conjecture that the tribe of the Arjundyanas mentioned in
the Arthasastre of Kautilya and the Allahabad Seone Pillar Inscription
of Samudeagupta signified some people of Ceneral Asia, whose kings
derived their origin from Arjuna, and it is also reasonable to hold that
the battle between Arjuna and the Risikas mentioned in the Sebba-
parvanof the Mababbarata enshrines a memory of some military episode
in the history of these Ceneral Asiatic oasis-states. When we equate
these facts with the location of Utrarakuru in che North-West beyond
the frontiers of India and the existence of the town named Kuruskhete
in Bactriana, it does not remain difficult co understand chat many
anecdotes of the Mababbarate were connected with Central Asia.
Central Asia had its importance as an artery of trade, Two princi-
pal routes running in the North and the South of che Tarim Valley had
theie vermini at Tun-huang in the East and Kashghar and Balkh
in the West. The Northern route passed through the oasis-states of
Turfan (Kin-she), Karashahr (Yen K'i), Kucha (K'iew-tseu), Aqsu (Ku-
mo), Uch-Turfan (Wen-su) and Kashghar (Shu-lé") and the South-
ern route lay through Lou-lan near the Lob-nor, Khotan (Yu-t’ien) and
Yarkand (So-kiu). The principal merchandise passing through these
routes being Chinese sill, they came to be known as silk-routes. Ie is
held by some scholars that the English word ‘silk; Russian ole, old
Slavic silk, Lithuanian szilkai, Latin, sericum, Greek ser, sera, seres,
Arabic sarak, Persian sarab are derived from a Chinese word which has
given birth to sir in Korean sirkek in Mongol and sirge in Manchu.
This original Chinese word is taken to be se, modern ssew, by Herrmann
and others.* But Laufer does not agree with this view and finds himself
unable to trace the Iranian word serab to a Chinese original.’
However, a unique fragment of crepe belonging to the Han period
found at Edsen-gol, has been identified with tsow mentioned io the
Chinese texts of that epoch.!® In India an echo of this word is perhaps

8 V.V. Barthold, La Découverte de I’ Asie, Payot (1947) p. 64.

9 Berthold Laufer, Sino-Iranica, pp. 537-539.

10. Vivi Sylwan, Investigation of silk from Edsen-gol and Lop-nor (Stock)
holm 1949, p. 4 pt. XII.

Google
Central Asia: The Crucible of Cultures 55

perceptible in the Sanskrit word améuka. Ie is significant to note that,
according to Serabo, the word on which the Latin Serica (plural) is based
was first heard by Nearchus in India. That India and China
effectively cooperated in the commerce of silk is manifest from
the numerous references to Cindmiwke in Sanskrit literature and the
remnant of a silk-bale bearing price etc. in Brahmi script discovered
by Sir Aurel Stein in Central Asia. Like India, Iran also learnt of
silk from China through Central Asia. Ie is very likely that the
acquaintance of the Khotanese with sericulture, introduced by a
Chinese princess in A.D. 419, gave the impetus to the spread of this
new industry in the Western direction in Yarkand, Ferghana and
Persia." With the helps of the Iranians this industry spread west-
wards. Like silk, the fabric called Ksanma in India is the Chu-ma of
Chinese and the embroidered brocade known as Kim Khaw ot Kamkbab
ot Kamkba in Persian, Kin-kbaw in Arabic and Kambbab in
Hindustani is derived from the Chinese word Kin-bwe, pronounced as
Kim-kbwa.

These hints indicate the part played by Central Asia in
the assimilation of peoples and the diffusion of economic techniques.
In the synthesis of religious traditions and symbiosis of art-styles. also,
the contribution of Central Asia has been significant. On this point
archaeological discoveries have shed a flood of new light. At the
Southern edge of the Taklamakan Desert near Khotan the sand-dressed
ruins of a settlement have been unearthed at Dandan Cig and a great
stiipa has been found at Rawak. Further East, near the place where
the Niya River disappears in sand-dunes, there are remains of another
town. This place was iccluded in the territory of the state of
Lou-lan, whose capital has been found by Sven Hedin near the edge of
the old bed of the Lob lake. At Miran, near Charlik, a ruined Tibetan
fort guards the remains of an earlier group of Buddhist shrines. Neat
Maralbashi, on the Northern edge of the desert the temples of
Tom-Shuk crown the spurs of the foothills of the T’ien-Shan range.
Above the Kucha oasis the great temples are the splendour of Subashi
and Duldurakhur. In the vicinity of Kucha itself are the Ming-di

tt Speigel, Eranische Altertumskunde, vol. I, p. 250.

Google
56 Central Asia: The Crucible of Cultures

or the thousand caves of Kyzyl, Kumtura and Kiris. At Shor-Chuk
between Koral and Karashahr are the ruins of an ancient walled town
with many temples and burial monuments. The Turfan Depression,
comprising the oases of Turfan and Khara-Khoja, is replete with
artistic remains. Two old towns have been traced here: the older is in
utter ruins but the other, Khocho, the capital of the Uigurs from
the ninth to the thirteenth century, has many temples, monasteries and
tombs, which amply recompensed the labours of archaeologists. In the
rocky ravines of the Khocho area are clusters of shrines and monastic
dwellings, most notable among which are the temples and stiipas of
the Tuyok valley and the Sangim Gorge and the great monastery —
terrace of Bezeklik. At Khotan, though structural remains are negli.
gible, large quantities of metal and pottery objects have come to light.
Across the Gobi on the Western frontier of China the famous caves
at Tun-huang, cut between the fifth and the eleventh century, are
the repositories of many religions, languages and literatures of
Eastern Asia.

Though Buddhism reigns supreme almost everywhere in these regions,
the influence of other religions is not insignificant. In the Western
parts of Chinese Turkestan many Judeo-Persian documents have been
found and at Tun-huang a Hebrew manuscript of cit. 800. A.D,, con-
taining a roll of prayers of a Samaritan Jew, whom the current of
commerce had brought to the frontiers of China, has been discovered
by Paul-Pelliot. It is well-known that in the fifteenth century there
was a synagogue at Ning-+hia in Kan-su and the Jews residing
there came through Central Asia. Likewise, Mazdaism was known
to have been practised by the Uighurs of Turfan. Chinese works
mention many temples of fire, name Zoroaster and state that his religion
was introduced in the capital of the T’ang in 621 A.D. In the fifth
century . Manichaeism reached Chinese Turkestan and in the seventh
appeared in China. In 762 a Chinese rebel appealed to the Qeghan of
the Uighur Turks for help, who occupied the Eastetn capital of the
T'ang and met there a Manichaen dignitary. By his contact that
Qaghan embraced this religion and proclaimed it as the religion of
the state in the regions of the Orkhon. As a result of Uigur
ascendancy Manichaeism was popular in Mongolia and China up to

Google
Central Asia: The Crucible of Cultures 57

840-841, whereafter it fell on evil days and suffered proscription in
843-845 in China and shifted with the Uigurs to the Turfan
regions, But its imprint lasted long in China and its dualist
doctrine gave birth to the great Vegetarian sects, that played
an important part in the Eastern and Southern provinces, notably
at Chakiang and Fukien. It is highly significane chat Chu-hi,
ithe Aristotle of the East, had been a Fukienian follower of such
a sect. In 1019-1025 two Manichaen works were incorpora-
ted in the official Taoist canon. Though we do not know as to
when Nestorian Christianity entered into Central Asia, we are
quite sure that in 635 the Christian A-lo-pen reached the capital
of the T’ang and three years later was permitted to construct a
monastery there. Muslim and Christian sources speak of the Christians
of Turkestan in the Xth century and the German archaeological
missions have discovered a large number of Christian manuscripts in
the Turfan Depression. Last to reach Central Asia and eclipse all
other religions was Islam. Between the tenth and the fifteenth centuries
it accomplished the conversion of Turkestan and in the twelfth
made its debut in China. Thus we observe that almost all
important: religions came face to face at the cross-roads of Central
Asia and breathed a spirie of toleration among its people, which found
vent in the dictum of Mungka (Mangu) Khan that “all religions are
like the five fingers of the palm”.

The synthesis of religions, syncretism of cultures and synoccism
of peoples are reflected in every phase of the art of Central Asia.
In the Buddha images of this region the styles of Indian, Hellenic
and Sassanid art commingle and coalesce. Well-known divinities
of classical Greece as well as many armed Iranian gods are adopted
in the Buddhist pantheon, In the frescoes of temples the pictures
of the donors reveal a medley of facial expressions and physical
characteristics. Here, we have an astonishing variety of racial types
and a lavish display of different styles of dress and deportment.
European, Levantine and Eastern Asiatic faces feast the eyes every-
where. The Miran murals resemble the frescoes found at Fayyum
in Egypt and Dura-Europos in Syria. An inscription in the thigh
of a white elephant in one of these pictures records the name of the

8

Google
58 Central Asia: The Crucible of Cultures

painter 4s ‘Tita’ which Sir Aurel Stein takes to be a rendering of the
Romdn name Titius. While most of the seated Buddhas in the
temples at Miran are draped in classical flowing garments, the
Dvarapalas (gate-keepers) wear the Steppian dress consisting of long
under and over coats, trousers and boots. In the frescoes of Kuca
the full spring of life wells up in a splash of form and colour.
Worshippers, kings, queens, Brahmanas, ascetics, monks, dancers,
musicians, servants, demons and other personages display a marvellous
variety of colour, feature, figure, garb and expression. The donors
depicted in the Kyzyl caves are tall, fair-skinned and red-haired resembl-
ing the Knights and ladies of medieval Europe, but wear clothes and
armour prevalent in Sassanid Iran from the thitd to the seventh
centuries. At Kumtura about nine miles East of Kyzyl the
central Asiatic features become more pronounced in the Buddha
faces: the eyes are just slightly tilted and the landscapes depict the
typical T’ang Dynasty clouds hovering overhead. At Dan-dan
Oilik near Khotan the donors are markedly Chinese of Mongolian in
appearance and a Bodhisattva wearing long beard, brocade-gown and a
diadem of Sassanid model recalls the image of a Persian knight. In
the Shorchuk frescoes near Karashabr, that are ascribed to the seventh,
eighth and ninth centuries, the Buddhas, monks and Gandharvas have
markedly Far Eastern features and the benefactresses ate slant-eyed, long-
nosed stocky women, who can be confidently identified with the women
of che Western Turks, that held sway over Karashahr for some centuries.
In Turfan Manichacism shares the sway of Buddhism asa consequence
of the conversion of the Uigur Turks to this faith, as seen above. The
people pictured here are of many races, some have red hair and blue
eyes and some have robust faces, small linear. moustaches and braids
hanging on the back. The Buddhas and Bodhisattvas mounted on
horses and camels and wearing boots, tight trousers and long cloaks tied
with belts give an idea of the local colouring of culcure-complexes. The
influence of Christianity is also pronounced and in a mural a priest
having Byzantine appearance holds incense in one hand and a vessel
of holy water in the other and blesses chree persons of small stature
having slanting eyes. At Bezeklik Chinese motifs appear in every
context: deities sit in the windows of Chinese style houses and

Google
Central Asia: The Crucible of Cultures 59

children with Chinese pigtails spore on balconies. A fine Manichaean
wall painting shows a priest of Persian features, probably Mani him-
self, dressed in full canonicals and followed by several ranks of white-
gowned and tall-bonneted electi. In this artchistory of one thousand
years ranging from the early murals of Miran to the latest work in
the Turfan area the confluence of cultures has burst forth in thousand
streams and the mingling of several styles of living has tinkled out in
thousand tongues.

Google WN
Administrative System of the Kambuja rulers
By. Dr. Baty Nats Port, M. A., B. Lirr (0xon)., D.PHIL (OXON),

The Kambuja inscriptions adduce enough information to form a
comprehensive view of the administrative system of that country in
the time of the ancient Khmer rulers. It must be borne in mind
that the extent of the empire coupled with che complexity of the
population and its geographical position, encircled, as even at present,
by the kingdoms of Annam or Champa, Tonkin and Siam entailed
a complex administrative system so as to minimise the chances of
external aggression and internal revolt, ‘The matriarchal system of
social structure and the absence of any regulated mode of succession
had at times engulfed the country into disruption and disorder. But
this state of affairs did not continue for long. The credit for retaining
the independent existence of the country for well over seven hundred
years is due to the system of country’s administration which was
borrowed from the home land of the rulers in Northern India, and
the unshakeable faith of the people in the ruling sovereign in whom
the sovercignty vested. The oath of allegiance on the patt of the
officials, their hereditary appointments, and the division of the country
into provincial and local units had ensured efficiency, stability and
room for progress. This had not ruled out democratic spirit which
is clearly manifested in the reference to the Royal Assembly or Rajya
Sabba, the office of the Sabbapati, the chief of corporation and the
patt played by the village elders in local administration. In the light
of the above observations we propose considering the system of
administration under the following headings :—the Position of the
King, his powers, the Royal Assembly, Provincial Units, Vassal chiefs,
High officials, Minor officials, Judiciary, Local administration, Sale
transactions and transfer of title deeds, Military administration,
Hereditary appointments and Oath of allegiance, Administration of
Religious endowments, Administrative laws and uniformity of punish-
ment.

Google
Administrative System of the Kambuja rulers 61

Position of the King. The reference to the “Arthaastra and the
Dbarmasastra’ in the inscriptions implies that che position of che king
and his status was well defined. One of the features of the cule of the
Devaraja was the acceptance of the divine element in the king. One
inscription? refers to King Jayavarman born as a portion of the god Siva.
He was the highest authority of the state in executive and judicial
matters and was the fountain of law and its interpreter. He was also
the head of the forces. He appointed the provincial chiefs*, and could
interfere in all matters independently even at the head of the officialst.
He was assisted by Mantrins, and other officials’. An. inscription
refers to the Rajyasabbadbipati*, but his relations with the king and
his powers are nowhere defined. The fersonal safety of the ruler was

1 tasya taw mantrinavastamsimmatan kritavedino.
Dbarmasastrartha sastrajiio dharmarthavit
Majumdar: Inscription No. 30 p. 39

In one inscription there is a reference to a favourite of the king who was
sarvopadbisuddba (No. 12 p. 18. V. 12, ibid) This might suggest that he had
stood all temptations. The tests of such a nature are also mentioned in the
Arthasastra (Book I, Chap 10)

2 Yasya linge sabastraram

tadesena=vatirnena jitam Sri ‘Teyavarmana.
(No 34 p. 45 VV 2-3).

3 Inscription No 34 from Tan Kran suggests that a person was appointed
to several junior posts before he was placed as the lord of district. Such
appointments naturally were made by the king, The evidence furnished by the
Chinese sources is very clear on this point, as it suggests that all appointments
were made from the members of the Royal family, and in the absence of the
male members even female members of the family were appointed (Remusat :
Nouv. Mel. As, Ip. 1¢9). We have considered this point in great detail.

4 The Tuol Prasat inscription (Majumdar. No. 122) mentions the Chief
Justice and other members of the tribunal reporting their decision to the king,
and the Neak Ta Carek inscription refers to the king taking cognizance of an
offence against an officer of the state who had done wrong toa private
individual.

5 Itis difficule to suggest on the basis of these administrative terms the
relation between the king and these officials, but it is evident he could interfere
in all affairs, The powers of these officials are nowhere defined,

6 Majumdar, Inscription, No. 33 p. 43-

Google
62 Administrative System of the Kambuja rulers

a matter of vital concern’ to the State, and there were special officials
like inspector of bed chamber, special body-guards (nrpantaraiga) and
dvaradbyaksa*. The Chinese accounts have also referred to thousands:
of such body guards’. His position in the Judicial set up would be
considered when we take that aspect of administration into considera-
tion, To what extent the king enjoyed the esteem of the people
might be judged by the fact that the people were prepared to offer the
merits of their austerities to the king’®. The king sometimes had his
own favourite."

Provincial Administration: The vast Kambuja empire was
‘d into a number of Provincial units, which, according to the

divi
Chinese accounts, were 30 in number. The inscription do mention

a few Provinces. They are Tatandrapura, Tamrapura, Adhyapura,
Srestapura, Bhavapura, Dhruvapura, Dhanvipura, Jyesthapura,
Vikramapura, Ugrapura and Isanapura. The Ruler of Adhyapura
named Sithhadatta was also the Royal Physician, and that of
Dharmapura was a Brahmana.'* The governors of the towns of
Bhavapura and Jyesthapura are associated in a record’ of dedication
along with a few other donors. In a record" the ruler of Bhavapura
named Samaradhipativarman is mentioned as the hereditary governor
of Bhavapura. These heads were appointed by the king. Some
times they were recruited from the services. One inscription mentions
the appointment of the elder son of Dharmasvamin who had held many
royal offices, such as commander of the Cavalry (mabaSvapati), lord of
Stesthapura, and lord of Dhruvapura, full of dense forests and ferocious
men, The expression (Punar=Dhruvapuram prapya) suggests that
cither he was a retired person, but that does not appear to be the

7 This is always the case where there is no regulated law of succession,
and sometimes the close relations are disposed of.
8 Majumdar ; Inscription, no. 61. p. 82, V, 87.5 ibid., no, 34 p. 46. v. 16.
g BEFEO., Vol. Ill, p. 264.
x0 Majumdar: Inscriptions, No. 139 p. 344; cf. no, 148 p. 351; and

p. 614.
11 Ibid., no, 13 (antarangatvem asthitab)
12 Ibid., no. 30, p. 39 13 Ibid., no. 34, p. 45
14 Ibid,, no. 42, p. 42 19  Ibid., no, 126, p. 310

Google
Administrative System of the Kambuja rulers 63

case, or he was appointed at the post held by his father after he had
shown his merit in other assignments. The contention also implies
that che principle of hereditary appointment was accepted with
reservations depending upon the capacity and talents of the succeeding
incumbent. There is also a reference to vassal chief known as
Rajfiadbikrita and an inscription refers to the vassal chiefs of Tamrapura
who possessed in addition to the town of Cakraikapura, Amoghapura
and Bhimapura.

High Officials: The Kambuja inscriptions mention a number
of officials of a high status who were similar to their counterparts in
India. These high officials included Kuméaramantrin,'* Baladbyaksa,¥
Mantrins,* Rajadbisaka®® and Rajakula-mabamanti2? The Kumara-
mantrin can very well be equated with the Kumaramatya of the
Northern Indian inscription”? who were attached to the princes.
The Beladbyaksa is also noticed in Indian inscriptions, and it may
be taken as synonymous with Baladbikyita which term is noticed in
many Indian inscriptions.” He was different from the Senapati
who was actually in command of the forces on the front. The two
officers are distinguished in the records in India, and so it may be
suggested that the Beladbikyita was attached to the Secretariat and
he looked after the forces, and was not actually fighting on the front.
The Mantrins were certainly more than one, as in one inscription
two names are mentioned. They were appointed by the king and
were mostly from the blue blood. According to the Chinese account,**

16 Ibid. no, 25, p. 30

17 Ibid., no. 66, p. 127 18 Ibid., no, 71A p. 149

19. Ibid., no. 66, p. 133

20 Ibid. no. 30, P. 39

21 Ibid. no, 100, p. 269

22 Bhandarkar’s List, No. 1270, 171, 1272 etc,

23 Baladbikrita and Baladbayksa appear to be synonymous terms and
this official was probably different from the Sendpati who led the forces on the
battle front. Baladbikrita or Baladbyaksa, on the other hand, seems to have been
an adviser on army matters who remained in the Secretariat. (cf, El., vol. 10
p. 85; vol. XIV p, 182; also Mababbarata, Vil. 189; Harivamsa. 15841)

24 Nonveanz Melanges Asiatique (1829) p. 85-86 quoted from Chatterji:
Indian cultural influence in Cambodia, p. 61

Google
64 Administrative System of the Kambuja rulers

as noticed by Ma-touan-lin in his chapter on Chen-la, and translated
by Abel Remusat, in the first half of che 7th century, there were
five classes of high officials who knelt before the king before they
took their seats in a circle round the king to discuss the state affairs.
The bas-teliefs of the first gallery at Angkorvat illustrate the court
scene at Kambuja. Ie is possible to locate the officer and his name
because the names and designations are inscribed. The Ministers
include the ‘Holy lord and master Vitasithhavarman kneeling before
the king and presenting a scroll, che Chief Sri Vardhana, the lord
and master Dhanafijaya, and the holy lord and master of the merits
and defects, and the Chief Justice. Fortunately most of these titles
and offices are mentioned in the records, and we shall refer to them
later on,

The minor officials included Dvarédbyaksa,** Astradbipati*®
Gunadosapariksaka,*® and a few others who were associated with the
Viharas. The Prasat Komnap inscription’® and associated ones
mention a number of minor officials associated with the different
sectarian Viharas established by the emperor YaSovarman. These
included Rajakusipala, Pustakaraksin, and Lekbaka. A host of others like
torch bearers (Ulkaikadbaraka), Sakadbibaraka, Paniyabara, Patrakara,
Tambulika, Tandulakarisya and Ksuraka had hardly any administeative
status. The Lekbaka ot scribe could correspond to the Kayastha
mentioned in many records, especially in the Damodarpura copper
Plate inscriptions,"* and the Pustakaraksin might be the keeper of
the records. The Rajakutipila probably kept Royal seals. The
association of these minor officers in the ecclesiastical establishments
is not an uncommon factor. We find that the Réjabotzis** occupied
a high position, and the interest taken by the Khmer rulers in setting
up and managing such religious and humanitarian institutions could

25 Journal Asiatique, August-September 1883, p. 199 ff.

26 Majumdar; Inscriptions, No. 61, p. 88

27 Ibid., no. 87, p. 176

28 Ibid., no, 125, 314

292 Ibid, no. 66,119 | 29 EL, vol. XV, p. 1316
30 Majumdar: Inscriptions, No. 71A. p. 148

Google

Administrative System of the Kambuja rulers 65

not have been possible without administrative personnel being
appointed for this specific purpose.

Military Administration: The geographical position of Kambuja
necessarily required both land and naval forces. The inscriptions
mention officers connected with both, An inscription’ refers to
Mabananbbbaka, and Samantanasvaba. The Sabastrivargadbipati®
was in charge of a force of a thousand men. The chief of cavalry was
called Mabaivapati*®. An idea of the Kambuja army and its structure
can be had froma look at a scene from the Angkor Basteliefs.
Ie shows the match past of the generals with their escorts. Clad in
armour one is seated on an elephant with a javelin on his shoulder and a
shield in his left hand, He has an escort with umbrellas over his head.
His pilots are four horsemen. There ate also Saiijakas or ‘bodyguards.
Ie may be interesting to learn that the king had separate palace guards
under a commander known as Narendraparicaraka’*, They had arms
in their hands and wore helmets on their heads. The palace force
under a tried (sarvopadbatuddba) was a sheer necessity when succession
to the throne was disputed and the chances of a coup état were not
slender.

Judicial Administration; There is enough information on this
point in the Kambuja records. One insctiption"* mentions the chief
Judicial officer (Vyavabaradbikari), and che Superintendent of the court
of Justice (Dharmadbikaranapala) who along with the other officers of
the court, the Inspector of the property of gods (amritakadbana), and
the Inspectors of the bailiffs who were working under the authority of
Prithivindra Pandita, called in this record the Inspector of qualities and
defects (Gunadosadarsi). This person is mentioned in another
record®* as the Chief Justice, who along with the other judges of their
tribunal reported their decision to the king at that time in the sacred

31 Ibid,, no. 34, p. 46, v, 18
32 Majumdar: Kambuja Inscriptions, No. 34, p. 46. V. 19.
33 Ibid., Vix

34 Ibid, V. 5

35. Ibid., no. 125, p. 314

36 Ibid., no, 122, p, 311; ef, no, 125

Google
66 Administrative System of the Kambuja rulers

town of Jayendranagari. An inscription mentions a term Samyadbipa**,
supposed by Dr. Majumdar to be the head of the magistrates, Actually
it was the king who was the highest judicial authority who could
be approached even in the initial stage of the complaint. He was the
highest court of appeal, and he could punish officials, if found guilty.
In one case Matai Kurun, the chief of the Virapura district, was
found guilty of removing the boundary and reaping the corn of the
field of the complainant and was fined ten ounces of gold, while his
younger brother who abetted the crime was condemned to 102 stripes
on the back (prsthidana)**. Another inscription records that Sri
Prithvindra Pandita, President of the Civil tribunal of the first category
conveyed a royal order of donation and the order was engraved on
stone.'* The procedure in a civil law suit is noticed in a Khmer
inseription*® which refers to the replacement of a slave who was
ultimately handed over and placed in the service of God. We notice
here the name of the judge, his two assistants and the witnesses,
Similarly a legal judgment is recorded in the Tuol Prasat inscription‘!
presided over by Sri Prithvindra Pandita and assisted by some others
whose names ate also mentioned.

Alienation of land and sale procedure: The Prasant Kok
inscription'? furnishes very interesting details of the procedure for the
sale of lands, and its reference toa number of officials connected in
the deal is very interesting. At the request of the purchaser for acquit-
ing proprietary rights, there was a notification issued to the inspector
of qualities and defects (gunadosadarsi) This official was given full
powers to the inspector who asked the assembly to summon the other
party, naturally the vendor. The inspector on his patt entrusted the
execution of the Royal order to the inspector of wages, the chief Judicial
officer, (Vyavabaradbikari), the Superintendent of the court of Justice

37 Kambujadeéa p.
38 Majumdar: Kambuja Inscriptions, no. 99, p. 269

39 Ibid., no. 146, p. 349

40 Amonier; Le Cambodge, Vol. i. p. 247-47. Chatterji; Ref. cit. p. 149.
41 Majumdar: Kambuja Inscriptions, p. 314

42 Ibid., no, 122, p. 31

Google r
Administrative System of the Kambuja rulers 67

(Dbarmadbikeranapala), the Inspector of the property of the gods
(emritakadbana) and che Inspector of the bailiffs of the third class. The
land called Arama was delimited with the help of the nobles (parusa-
pradbans) the elders (grima-vrddba), and the dignitaries of the four
regions in the neighbourhood. In the presence of these notable per-
sonages the boundaries were defined, and with the striking of the drum
atthe site the formalities were completed. The same inscription
mentions a few other officials connected with the sale transactions. It
mentions the chief Acdrya and President of the court, the usual inspector
of qualities and defects, the reciters of Dharma-Sastras, an inspector
of boys of the country, and the inspector of the bailiffs of the third
class, as usual. The sale transaction and the details connected with
it can favourably be compared with the data from the Damodarpura
Copper Plate inscriptions.“* It would appear that both the official and
non-official elements were connected with such sale transactions in
both the countries.

Another inscription furnishes some additional details regarding
the transference of land by royal order. In this case the leaders and
noble persons from four neighbouring villages—four from each—came
and fixed the boundaries of the land given by royal order. The elders
included the person who fixed the auspicious moment, the chief of
ten villages (daSagrama), a notable and another chief of ten villages,
the leader of the village (grémavrddba), a thitd chief of ten villages
and several other persons who probably acted as witnesses, Another
inscription refers to Vrah Sabha or the holy assembly fixing the
boundaries of the land which was purchased from the contributions
made by several officials and consecrated to god Jayaksetra. This
shows that there was little room for the acquisition of private property
even for ecclesiastical purposes, and the private interest never
suffered. The persons selling the land took solemn vows never to
reclaim the land already sold.

Local Administration: The democratic spirit was manifested
in local administration, The villages, as usual, had a head whose

43 Ref, cit.
44° Ibid., no. 145, p. 347

Google
68 Administrative System of the Kambuja rulers

title gramika unfortunately is not noticed in any record, but there are
references to heads of ten villages inthe Khmer text of che Prasat
Trapan inscription of Jayavarman.‘* It is therefore quite clear that there
must have been the head of a village unit as well. Certain inscrip-
tions? mention village elders (gramavriddba) and notable persons
(purusapradbana) who assisted the officials in fixing the boundaries.
Here their ripe experience and status were taken advantage of.
Appointments and Oath of allegiance: To ensure efficiency and
smooth running of administration, it was necessary that all appoint-
ments should be made on certain considerations, Here it appears
that efficiency was the first consideration, and next came the allegiance
of the family. As these appointments were made by the king, he
took these facts into consideration. Generally the son succeeded his
father!" provided he had shown his merit in other assignments. An
inscription mentions a learned Brahmin named Dharmasvamin who
was the chief of Dharmapura. His elder son held many royal offices
such as ‘commander of the cavalry’ (mabaévapati), lord of Stestapura
and lord of Dhruvapura. His younger brother was also a high official
who held successively the post of the ‘commander of the palace guards’
(nrpintaranga), some other office the name of which is not clear,
‘commander of navy’ (samantananvabana), and a ‘commander of the
thousand soldiers’ (sabasravargadbipati). It is also evident that transfers
from one post to another were quite frequent, The allegiance of the
family was taken into full consideration. In one inscription a
family monopolised the office of ‘the bearer of che royal fan’—for
thieceen successive kings beginning from Jayavarman II. According
to certain Chinese accounts®* the offices were mostly held by the
members of the Royal family and when male members were not to
be found, females were appointed. Actually we find Prana, one of
the wives of King Rajendravarman, who was distinguished by her

45. lbid., no, 131, Pe 333
46 Ibid.

47, Ibid., no. 131, p. 333
48. Ref. cit. no. 34, p. 44

49 Ibid., no. 157, p. 400
50 Remusat; Ref. cit p, 109; Chatterji, p. 165

Google V 4
Administrative System of the Kambuja rulers 69

lineage, conduct and talents, appointed on the death of Rajendravar-
man, the head of the private section secretaries of Jayavarman."*

The officers were expected to take the oath of allegiance, thereby
solemnly offering their lives and devotion to the sovereign. This was
taken in the presence of sacted fire, Brahmanas and Acityas. They
were asked not to honour any other king, never to be hostile to their
king, not to be accomplices of any enemy, nor harm their king in any
manner, show utmost devotion to him, fight on behalf of theie sovercign
in case of war to the best of their abilities, consecrate theit lives to
the service of the king even if it meant death, should not hesitate in
discharging their duties minutely even if they were sent to remote
place on king’s business, Failure to do their duty entailed any corporal
punishment which the king might inflict. In case they absconded,
they were condemned to be born in the thirty two hells so long as
the Sun and the Moon endure. The king, on the other hand, was
to provide for these people and their families, and the heavenly reward

might follow for their devotion to duty. .

The institution of Saijakas: The Saiijakas were those people
who owed special allegiance to the king and were always with him,
They were actually proud of sactificing their lives fur the safety of their
lord. The Bantay Chmar Inscription mentions the situation when
Bharata Rabu treacherously rebelled against king YaSovarmadeva and
sacked his palace. All the troops of the capital fled. The prince
fought, and the two Safjakas fought to save him. In so doing they
lost their lives, but Bharata Rahu was defeated. Their images were
set up by the king, and posthumous awards were conferred on them,
The basteliefs at Angkor Vat also depict Safijakas. These Safjakas
might be classed as personal bodyguards of the king.

Laws and punishment; We have noticed certain cases of a civil
nature which suggest chat the rights of che individual were well
protected, and even in cases where the State was a party in alienation
the non-official element was always consulted for the delimitation of
boundaries. In cases where the official element had misused his
position, he was not immune from punishment, The State was

51 Majumdar: Kambuja inscriptions, no. 163 p. 422 V. 24

Google
Jo Administrative System of the Kambuja rulers

certainly che owner of the property without any claimant. An
inscription? does refer to mrtekadbana. People had to pay taxes.
The king had the right to reduce the taxes. A Khmer inscription
of Rolom Tim refers to the giving of a buffalo to the head of the
collectors of the paddy tax in order to be exempted from the royal
corvee,

We have, thus, visualised che administrative system of the Kambuja
rulers on the basis of the inscriptions. Ie has been made very clear
that the system was based on the Artha and the Dharma Sastras, and
there were also reciters of the latter. It was just like the Indian adminis.
trative system. The divine origin of the king, his council of ministers,
provincial chiefs, democratic spirit in local administration, the principle
of hereditary appoinements subject to efficiency were all akin to the
Indian system. Only the institution of Saijakas appears to be an
indigenous one, though cases of faithful servants sacrificing theic lives
for the sake of their master could be traced everywhere and at all
times, The oath of allegiance is also very interesting. On the whole
the system seemed to be well planned, and there was hardly any
change in the set up during the period of Kambuja history.

52 Ibid., no. 183, p. 528

Google
Editorial Notes

_ Bulletin de 1 Ecole Frangaise d’Extreme-Orient
Vol. XLVIL, pt. i.

This issue opens with an obituary notice of the late savant René
Grousset (1885-1952) written by J. Auboyer, Curator of the Musée
Guimet. Ie contains a list of writings of the late learned scholar,

Ie is followed by Prof. Louis Charles Damais’s learned and
painstaking study of the Indonesian (Java, Bali and Sumatra) inscrip-
tions with a view to fix their dates by adopting certain methods,
particularly, by calculating che months, years and cycles mentioned
in them. There are ten appendices, of which the last contains an
exhaustive index of the inscriptions dealt with in the paper published
by the writer in this and the previous issue of the Bulletin.

Vol. XLVII, pt. ii

This issue opens with another obituary notice of the late Professor
Jules Bloch written by Prof. J. Filliozat. Ie contains also the valuable
list of papers written by the late professor.

This is followed by

(i) Maurice Durand’s translation of Cw’-o'ng, quyen II, wich
notes and a facsimile of the original Chinese text;

(i) Yves Hervouet’s paper on Chinese manuscripts in the
Library of L’Ecole Frangais d’ Extreme-orient and

(iii) Henri Maspero’s paper on the “Materials for the study
of the Tung language”;

(iv) The fourth paper is written by Guy Mortchand on the
Principal Traits of Shamanism Mio Blanc of Indo-China,

In this learned paper, the author has dealt with Meo Blanc
Shamanism, which is a sort of religious phenomenon. The Shaman
or priest possesses extraordinary powers. His soul can leave his body
in order to travel in an unknown region to bring back the soul of the
ailing person for whom he shamanises.

The technique of Shamanism can be traced in South-east Asia,
Tibet, America, Oceania, Africa and also in China. There are
cultural evidences to prove that there was in the past a vast Austro-

Google
72 Editorial Notes

Asiatic civilization. The Asian beliefs relating to souls and spirits
were linked up with Shamanism from a very ancient time. Actual
Shamanism prevailed in Siberia and Central Asia. The culture of
the Meos is very complex and has given rise to contradictory
hypotheses. Shamanism is based on the belief of the existence of
plurality of souls or spirits in human beings and chat some of these
enter into insects and bring from them diseases which sometimes cause
death. The spirits have no concrete shape or representation but
occasionally they become visible to the priest when he chants the
magical spells in trance, but he cannot remember the representation
when he rises from the trance and regains the normal state of mind.

The Shaman, i.e., his soul is supposed to undertake an expedition
into the world above and below the earth, i.e., heavens and hells, in
search of a Meeting soul removed by an evil spirit. He tries to reclaim
it from a celestial or infernal deity and the task is believed to be
hazardous as he may be caught in a trap ata critical moment. He
sometimes takes the help of auxiliary spitits for self-protection. This
magical joutney needs the priests mystical death, which is followed by
a resuttection, During the trance if an evil spirit comes to cut the
magical circuit, the Shaman cannot reintegrate his body and dies.
The present study of shamanism deals with (i) che journey into the
unknown sphere; (ii) the spiritual worlds and theit divinities; (iii) the
difficule path to be traversed; (iv) the mystic death and resurrection;

(») the spirit or the auxiliary spirits; and (vi) the réle of sonorous
and magical chantings.

Shamanism starts with psycho-physiologic experience. Ie is defined
by Mr. Eliade as a technique of ecstacy. It requires the trembling of
the priest before the eyes of the people, and the trembling must be
spiritual and not material, The priest then becomes a spitit. His
physical and psychological activities form only a fringe of the religion,
He remains aloof from pomp and grandeur of collective rites. He
does not take any assistane, His trance shows his extraordinary powers.
The trance is a journey which the Shaman apes to a certain extent and
is guided by a fleeting object. It is among the Méo Blancs one finds
the aping of horse-ride. The Shaman takes his seat before the alear
of the: horse-spitit. While so sisting he makes various physical

Google
Editorials Notes 23

movements. Sometimes he interrupts his chantings by making a
sound of lips, intended to excite the horse, on which he is supposed
to ride. Among the Méo Blancs there is no trace of the practice of
riding on bied-spirits or any Aying animal or object to catty the priest
to the heavens. A Shamanic chant runs as follows:

“Ye powerful horse, conduct the soldiers in front farther away, go
then, thereby let us frighten che spirits | Men come, may the spirits
regain cheir habitats, may the men reach the earth, come, finish; may
the soul have enough to go by this left way, by the right way! Ye
powerful horse, let us finish, may the soul have enough to wander, to
come and go”.

According to the Shamans of Central Asia, the figures 7 and g
have an importance. The Altaics have a cosmic pole with nine
notches representing nine heavens. The pole represents the axis of
the world; it is along the axis that the Shaman finds his way to the
domain of spirits and heaven. Among many tribes the pole is made
of birchwood, Among the Méo Blancs a social rite is performed seven
times by men and nine times by women. These numbers have a
ritual value.

Among the Méo Blancs, the paws of a dog tied together are found
hanging on the top of the main gate of a house. The dog was
sacrificed for frightening away the evil spirits which might haunt
the house. A dog is believed to watch the gates of hell and the
bridge thrown over the river. The bridge is as narrow asa hair.
The Shaman must have purity of heart in order to be successful in
his performances. One with evil heart and intention is killed by his
powerful horse. Bue the acquisition of all human virtues does not
make a Shaman, who must have an extraordinary character to under-
take the journey to the spirit worlds.

The initiation of a Shaman transforms him and enables him to
perform the difficult tasks of a Shaman. The initiation is physical
and physiological and not intellectual. Among the Yakoutes the
Shaman fasts three days without drinking water and acquires strength.
The rites of initiation of the Méo Blancs are not known.

(v) The fifth paper contains the late Dominique Antomarchi’s
collection and translation of Le Chant Epique de Kdam Yi (Klei Khan

10

Google
74 Editorial Notes

Kdam Yi). It is prefaced by a biographical notice of D. Antomarchi
written by F. P, Antoine, followed by a learned introduction written
by G, Condonimas to Klei Kdam Yi, containing sociological observa-
tions on the two epic poems of the Rhadés. Dr. G. Condonimas’
obse:vations are as follows: —

La Chanson de Damsan is a magnificent poem of the tribals of
Central Viet Nam. There are other poems collected in different
groups of the linguistic family of Mon Khmer (Babnar, Sra, Mnog-
Gar etc). Le Chant épique de Kdam is another epic which completes
the theme of Chanson de Demsan on the different forms of culture.
The Klei Khan Damsan is a didactic poem. .

The Klei Khan Kdam Yi praises a hero who refuses to follow the
social customs and faces all obstacles to his ambition. The first poem
asks people to respect the rules of marriage particularly those relating
to “replacement of the deceased husband of a woman.” The hero
of the entire poem was a fine warrior who knew how to rescue his
wife from the hands of her ravishers. He died and was resuscitated
by Aé Dig. He then undertook an expedition to obtain the Sun
(Female spirit) as his wife and wanted to relegate his former wife
H Ni, who forced him to observe the social custom, to the rank of a
concubine. He however suffered defeat and met with death, Kdam
Yi is depicted as a hero with boundless pride and ambition from his
boyhood; he was fond of arms and plunder and disliked agrarian
duties,

Among the Rhadés, a matriarchal tribe, the husband lived in his
wife’s house but the hero of the poem refused to follow the custom
and wanted his wile to live in his house. Though a son’s marriage
depended on his mother’s will, the hero refused to obey her command
to marry the widow of a dead chieftain.

The end of every hero of a poem differs from one another. Dam-
san who acts against the social customs meets with death while Kdam
Yi defies everything and faces death, The moral inculcated in Chanson
de Damsan is opposite to that of Chant épique de Kdam Yi. The
first Khan recommends chat the husband must filél his duties towards
his wife and never quit her while the second encourages revolt of men
against the female domination of a clan.

Google
Editorial Notes 75

Mr. Y. Bit Nig Kdam writes that nominally the husband is the
chief of che house but the woman holds the predominant position,
The husband lives at his wife’s place and works for the family. He
is only a manager in his wife’s household affairs and looks after che
children, The wife does not necessarily wield her authority on her
husband and also collaborates with him. The husband does not
inherit the wealth of the family. On the death of the wife her succes-
sor is selected from among her sisters or grand-daughters. On the
death of the husband, the widow, in order to feed the family and
maintain the property, selects a successor from among the brothers or
nephews of the dead.
_ In La Chanson de Damsan the important persons other than the
hero are his wife and sisters. Kdam Yi has no sister and is not
dominated by his mother. Damsan follows the social custom of
submitting to the power of his sisters and is deprived of his mother’s
tenderness.

The writer after afew more observations on the Indo-Chinese
tribes gives a note on the manuscript of Antomarchi.

Then follows the original text and translation of Le Chant Epique
de Kdam Yi, written by D. Antomarchi.

Printed and published by J. C. Sarkhel, at the Calcutta Oriental
Press, (Private) Ltd., 9, Panchanan Ghose Lane, Calcutta,

Google
Original from

Digitized by Google UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
JOURNAL

OF THE
GREATER INDIA SOCIETY
Vol. XV 1956 No. 2

Bhavavarman I and the Conquest of Fu-nan
By Dr. Bat) Nara Port

The real history of KambujadeSa begins with a new ruler named
Bhavavarman who delivered the country from the bondage of
Fu-nan, integrated the other smaller kingdoms and laid the foundation
of a big empire. The origin of this ruler, his home and family, and
his relations with the contemporary ruling families can be traced from
the inscriptions of this ruler and his successors, as well as from certain
later records, an inscription from Champé, and the evidence furnished
by the Chinese sources. An assessment of the contribution made by
this ruler in the history of KambujadeSa can be made aftera considera
tion of the existing sources de novo. It would also be possible to mark
cout the extent of his empire from his inscriptions and those of his
successors, and how he brought about the end of Funan. :

The available inscriptions of this ruler and those of his successors
are justa few. The Phnom Bantay inscription (244 miles south of
Angkor Bautai, two’ days journey to the west of Battambang) refers
to the installation of the liriga of Tryambaka (Siva) by King
Bhavavarman, along with the gift of riches conquered through the
efforts of the bow. The other record from Phnom Prah Vihara? in the
Kompong Chang records religious donations of Vidyapuspa, an
official of king Bhavavarman who is eulogised in the earlier part of
the record. The third record from Ponhea® Hor (Province of Trang)

1 Majumdar, Kambuja Inscriptions, no. 9, pp. toff.

2 Ibid., no. 10, pp, 11.
3 Ibid., no. 11, p. 13.

Google
2B Bhavavarman I and the Conquest of Fu-nan

refers to an official called Pasengapati who is said to have served
two kings Bhavavarman and probably his successor (or his predecessor)
and received from the former an umbrella with a golden top. The
next inscription from Han Chei Temple‘ (between Kampong Siem and
Stung Trang) congains the eulogy of Bhavavarman and his successor,
and records the installation of a Siva lifiga worshipped under the name
of Bhadresvara by the governor of Ugrapura. The last is the Veal
Kaneel inscription® (near Stung Trang) which records the installation
of an image of Tribhuvanesvara along with that of Sun by SarvaSarman
whose wife was the daughter of Vicavarman and sister of Bhavavarman.
This record is very important because it clearly points out that
Bhavavarman’s father was a commoner, and confirms the statement
of the Phnom Bantay record that Bhavavarman conquered riches
through the efforts of his bow (Sardsan =odyogajitartha) and the king
held the two worlds in his hand (karasthaloka duitena tena). There
was another Bhavavarman in this family and it is suggested® that some
of the records might be attributed to him in the absence of any date
recorded in them, and for want of paleographic evidence. This view
need not be accepted as final, as the find spots of the inscription
fully endorse the conquests of Bhavavarman I as the result of his
prowess and valour. Ie is, however, possible to attribute to him an
approximate date by way of inference from the records of his
successors containing genealogical tables and dates.

The Phu Lokhon (in the neighbourhood of the junction of Mun
with the Mekong river) inscription’ records the installation of a
Siva liiga by Mahendravarman, formerly known as Citrasena, who
was a younger brother of Bhavavarman, son of Viravarman and grand-
son of Satvabhauma. It is difficult to suggest if Sarvabhauma is a
personal name or denotes a suzerain. This Citrasena or Mahendra-
varman was succeeded by Sinavarman whose Sambhor Prei Kuk
inscription* (Kompon Sway) is dated’ in the Saka year 549=627

Ibid., no. 12, pp, 13.

Ibid., no. 13, pp. 18.

Cocdes, Etats Hindonises, p, 124; Majumdar, Kambujadeta, p. 53.
Majumdar, Kambuja Inscriptions, no. 15, pp. 20f.

Ibid., no, 16, pp. 21ff; BEFEO., vol. XXVIII, pp. 44ff.

oe ane

Google Inv oe cnican
Bhavavarman ? and the Conquest of Funan 79

A.D, Another important record? is the Kadei Ang Temple, popularly
known as Ang Chumnik (Ba Phnom Province) inscription of
Jayavarman dated in the ycar 589=667 A.D. Ie records the founda-
tion of a temple dedicated to Siva under the name of Sri VijayeSvara
by Simhadatta, physician of King Jayavarman and the Governor of
Adhyapura. This record narrates the history of the donor for four
generations with the names of the kings under whom they served.
namely, Rudravarman, Bhavavarman, Mahendravarman, [sanavarman
and Jayavarman, In this record Rudravarman is compared to Dilipa
as regards the extent of his empire. (yasye saurdjyam =adyapi
Dilipasy = eva viérutam). His relations with Bhavavarman are not
defined anywhere, but he preserved the kingdom as a resule of his
prowess (svasaktyakrantarajasya rajnas Sri Bhavavarmanab). This is a
very important point which we shall consider later on. It is, however,
clear that there was no intermediary between Rudravarman and
Bhavavarman.

Here we might also consider the Mysone Steale inscription’® of
PrakaSadharma dated in the Saka year 599=677 A.D. which
describes Bhavavarman as powerful ruler who broke the arrogant power
of his enemies, by his military strength and excess of heroism (Ksiti-
pates-jakti trays slagbino). His brother Mahendra is compared in
prowess to Indra. The latter's son was Isinavarman. In chis connec-
tion one has also to consider the evidence from the Chinese texts.
The history of the Sui Dynasty" (589-618 A.D), while describing
the kingdom of Chen-la points out that it was originally a vassal state
of Fu-nan. The family name of the king was Ksattiya. His name
was Citrasena and he made himself master of Fu-nan. His son
Tsanavarman succeeded him and inhabited the town of [sanapura. The
same texe adds that the first embassy from Chen-la came to China in
616 of 617 AD. and it wasobviously sent by Iéanavarman.? Another

9 Majumdar, Kembuja Inscriptions, no. 26, pp. 318.
10 Finot, BEFEO., vel. 1V, pp. g23f; Cocdes, Etats Hindomises, p. 122.
11 Abel Remusat, Nowveaux Melanges, vl, |, pp. 7; Majumdar, Kam-
bujadeia, p. 47. :
12° Pellict, BEFEO.. vol. Ill, p. 275.

Google ad
Bo Bhavavarman I and the Conquest of Fu-nan

Chinese text called Nan-che"* places the Ksatriya king Tina at the
beginning of the period Cheng-kuan (627-647 A.D.) who conquered
Fu-nan and took possession of the kingdom. From the account
rendered by the Chinese sources it appears that the conquest of Fu-nan
was a gradual process finally culminating in the time of Isanavarman,
Having noticed che sources of information about Bhavavarman and
his family, we might now consider the following important problems
relating to his reign, namely, the location of his original seat of power,
his relations with the other contemporary kingdoms, his relations with
Rudravarman of Fu-nan and the probable date of his conquest of
Fu-nan, As regards the first point, the decisive evidence is furnished
by the find-spots of his inscriptions. We learn that his records are
found to the west of Battambang, in the Province of Kompong Chang,
in the Province of Trang about 30 miles to che north-west of Chaudoc,
on the right side of the Mekong near the junction of the district
of Kompong Siem and Stung Trang, and to che west of Mekong near
Stung Trang. As it is not certain if all the records should be assigned
to this ruler, it is likely that some might be associated with Bhavavar-
man Il, It is equally probable that some of the inscriptions might
have been recorded after che conquest of the regions where they are
now found. We learn from a late record at Ta Prohm' of the time
of Jayavarman VII, and dated in the Saka year 1108= 1186 A, D.
while mentioning this long genealogy of Jayavarman VII refers to
Srutavarman and his son Sresthavarman, king of Sresthapura, the
Kambuya Laksmi and one Bhavavarman one of whose descendants had
a daughter named Jayacudamani who was the mother of Jayavarman
VII. Srutavarman is described in the Baksei Camkron inscription, "*
dated in the Saka year 869=947 A. D., as a descendant of the great
sage Kambusvayambhu and the root (mila) of the rulers of Kambu
(Sri Kembubbiamerta’ Srutavarmamitle). The reference to Bhavavar-
man after Srutavarman and his son Sresthavarman in the Ta Prohm
record, and the credit of freeing Kambujadeéa being assigned to Sruta-

13. Ibid, vol. XXVIII, p. 130.
14 Majumdar, Kambuja Inscriptions, no. 177, pp. 4598:
15, Ibid. no. 92, pp. 1886.

Google
Bhavavarman I and the Conquest of Fu-nan 81

varman, the root of kings, raises the issue of the relationship of
Srutavarman and his family with Bhavavarman. We may now draw
a table on the basis of the data available from the records.

Ta Probm Inscription Baksei Carakron Inscriptron
| | Kambusvayambhu

Scutavarman—the root of the rulers of Kambu who freed the country.

Sresthavatman

(che progenitor of the royal line

born on the Me. Jayadicyapura,

and king of Sresthapura) Sarvabhauma (Phulokhon)

Rudravarman (Ang Chumnik) — Vicavarman (Veal, Kantel)

Bhavavarman, lord of Bhavapura Mahendravarman D=Somasarman
founder of a line of kings, alias Citeasena
descent traced from Kaundinya
and Soma)
Tsénavarman (First embassy from Chen-la
| came to China in 616-17 A.D.)
Jayavarman,
This table clearly shows that Bhavavarman was unconnected either
with the family of Rudravarman, supposed to be the last ruler of
Fu-nan, or with the family of Srutavarman and Sresthavarman, but
the inscriptions explicitly suggest the relationship between the ewo
families, We notice in the Ta Prohm inscription that in between
Sresthavarman, the founder of Sresthapura, in line 7 and Bhavavarman
in Verse 9, there is a reference to Kambuja Laksmi who is eulogised in
Verse 8 for devotion to her lord. In Verse g ‘Bhavavarman is called
Bhartabbuvo Bhavapure and Avanindrakulaeprasiiteh hartta. Dr.
Majumdar presumes" that these two expressions may mean no more
than that Bhavavarman was the founder of a ‘lord of Bhavapura’, and
‘the founder of a royal family’. It also contains an allusion to
the face that he was the husband of the lady. The insertion of Verse

16 Majumdar, Kambujadesa, p, 50.

Google
82 Bhavavarman | and the Conquest of Fu-nan

8 in between the eulogy of Sresthavarman in V. 7 and that of Bhava-
varman in V. 9, clearly implies the existence of some relationship
between the lady and Bhavavarman,

We, however, propose that Kambujaraja-laksmi need not mean
here the lady of the royal family of Kambuja, but the expression
implies the sovereignty of Kambuja. A similar analogy is suggested
by the Bhicari Pillar inscription’” of the time of Skandagupta which
refers to vicalita-kula-laksmi. Moreover, the absence of any successor
to Sresthavarman is an indication that the sovercignity of Kambuja
had passed away from the family of Srutavarman to Bhavavarman.
This young and ambitious person belonged to an ordinary family as
the Phu Lokhon and Veal Kantel records suggest, but possibly some blue
blood was running in his veins, as we find che epithet Sarvabbauma
applied to his grandfather. The find spots of Bhavavarman’s records
suggest that he ruled over the region in the north-west covered by the
Battambang district, and his empire in the east extended as far as the
Kompong Chang and Stung Trang districts and in che south as far as
Baphnom to the east of Makong, and Chaudoc to the west of the
t, where Srutavarman and
Sresthavarman are supposed to have ruled, is isolated if the findspots of
the records are taken into consideration as authentic. The position seems
to be that Bhavavarman had cut a wedge which had isolated the kingdom
of Fu-nan in the south and that of Srutavarma and his successor in

river. Bassac or Sresthapura in the north-

the north. Bhavavarman first conquered the region ruled by Sregtha-
varman, and that accounts for his name in the genealogical list. Ie is
likely thar he had married in the family of Srutavarman and after
Sresthavarman’s death he stepped in as the legal ruler but not probably
without a contest with some other person, It is difficult to
suggest the date of his conquest of Sresthapura. The conquest of
Fu-nan in the south-east was a gradual process, and it culminated in
the time of his brother Citrasena or Mahendravarman, The Chinese
annals ate very clear on this point. We may, therefore, suggest that
there were three kingdoms: that of Fu-nan, of Sresthapura and the one
headed by Bhavavarman which was founded at the expense of the for-

17 Fleet, CIL., vol, Ill, no. 10.

Google

Bhavavarman | and the Conquest of Fu-nan 83

mer Empire of Fu nan, and it assimilated the second one of Srestha-
pura. The original Fu-nan empire was considerably reduced and the
final blow was keenly awaited.

As regards the relations of Bhavavarman with Rudravarman, the
last ruler of Fu-nan to have sent an embassy to China, we are to
a large extent dependent on the Chinese annals for our information.
Rudravarman was the son of a concubine and succeeded Jayavarman,
his father, after killing his younger brother who was the son of Jayavar-
man from his legitimate wife Kulaprabhavati, The last date of
Jayavarman is 514 A. D. We learn from the Chinese sources men-
tioned earlier that Rudravarman sent six embassies to China in A. D.
527) 519, 520, 535 and 539. The envoy sent in 517 was an Indian
named Tang pao-lo. (Dharmapala) and the presents in the second
mission included an image of the Buddha made of Indian sandalwood,
and pearls and precious stones. In the last mission in A. D. 539, a
living rhinoceros and a hair of the Buddha 12’ long was sent to the
Chinese emperor. According to the Chinese texts, Rudravarman is the
last king of Fu-nan. We, however, learn from the ‘History of the Sui
Dynasty’, (589-618 A.D) that Fu-nan was conquered by Citrasena,
king of Chen-la, whose son ISanasena sent an embassy to the Chinese
court in 616-7. D, We also learn from the Chinese texts that To-mu,
the capital of Fu-nan was suddenly attacked and seized by Chen-la,
and the king of Fu-nan removed himself to a town called Na-tu-na,
further to the south. The conquest of Fu-nan finally took place
before 616-7 A.D., and in between 539 and 616-7 A.D. i.e.
roughly 80 years we have to place the end of Rudravarman, the
emergence of the new dynasty headed by Bhavavarman, his length of
reign, succeeded by his younger brother Citrasena alias Mahendra-
varman and a few years of Isanavarman's reign as well. In this con-
nection the evidence furnished by the Ang-Chumnik record is very
important, as it_ mentions a family of physicians and the names of
kings served by them. The two brothers Brahmadatta and Brahma-
sinha were physicians of Rudravarman. This fact presupposes a fairly
long time for Rudravarman, and we might assign him a period up to
550 A.D. Dharmadeva and Sithhadeva, the nephews (sister's sons)
of Brahmdatta, and his brother attended on Bhavavarman and his brother

Go gle .
84 Bhavavarman 1 and the Conquest of Fu-nan

Mahendravarman, while Sithhavira, son of Dharmadeva, was a minister
of Iénavarman, and his son Sithhadarta was the physician of king
Jayavarman and was also the Governor of Adbyapura,

In the light of the evidence adduced above we make the following
suggestions: there were more than one kingdom in ancient KambujadeSa
which were dependent on Fu-nan. In the North-east it was Srutavar-
man who threw off the yoke of Fu-nan, and heand his son ruled for a
fairly long time. In the North-west the blow tothe ancient Fu-nan
empire was given by another person named Bhavavarman. The
Fu-nan empire had to recede to the south. After estabilising his
position Bhavavarman, the founder of the other kingdom, somehow
stepped in at Sresthapura, very probably after che death of Sresthavar-
man. He might have had some claim as a resule of some matrimonial
relation, but the possibility of a conflict to uphold his right is not ruled
out. Next, the gradual process of annexing portions of Fu-nan further
south commenced, but this took some time and it finally culminated
in the time of Tanavarman; and the Fu-nan empire was completely
eclipsed before the rising sun of che Khmer rulers.

Google VERSIT
Some aspects of Social life in ancient Kambujadesa

By Dr, Ba) Nari Puat

The Kambuja inscriptions mention a number of persons who
from their names appeat to be of Indian origin. Their presence in that
country away from their motherland is an important factor suggesting
their emigration from India. The reference to Brahmins coming to this
country from India, and the high esteem in which such emigrants
were held by the local people is a clear indication of che encourage-
ment given to this move, so that in course of time the country was
Indianised, with its Indian cules, and a social structure which was
based on the Indian caste system. As the persons who came into
Kambuja country were eithes Brahmins or Ksatriyas, their impact with
the local population resulted into a new social structure of which the
flexibility of the caste and inter-caste marital rélations were important
features. The indigenous matriarchal society continued to exist, and
it did influence the patciarchal system of the Indian immigrants.
This resulted in people tracing their descent from the mother’s side in
a number of cases, and che absence of any regulated syccession order.
Some of the names seem to represent a combination of Sanskrit and
Khmer endings. This complex social structure was, nevertheless,
Indian, and we propose considering the subject under the following
headings: Social divisions and creations of new castes, marital
relations, dress and ornaments, tood and utensils, position of women,
pastime and recreations, slavery, and disposal of the dead.

Social divisions: There are references to the four varnas in the
Kambuja records (Catuaro varnas), but primarily only the Brahmins
figure as very important persons who sometimes matried in the royal
family. This marital relations between the Brahmins and the Kgatriyas
had resulted in the emergence of a Brabma-ksatra® class which term

1 Majumdar, Inscriptions of Kambuja, No. 179, p. 497 ¥. 19.
2 Ibid., No, 52 p, 56, No. 95, p. 295. v. 10, The Prah Ko inscriptions
mentions Prithvindravarman belonging to Ksatri family (No. 55, p. 62. v. 4)-

2

Google -
86 Some aspects of Social life in ancient Kambujadesa

is also noticed in several records. There is not one reference to the
Vaisyas* in the Kambuja records. The important position accorded
to the Brahmins is due to the traditional Kaundinyas who established
their rule in Kambujadega in different periods, They married the
local queens and legalised cheir position as rulers of the country.
According to a Khmer tfadition,* the Brahmins from Java came to the
Kambuja country, and set up a kingdom here. These Brahmins were
darker in complexion, kept long hair and were inhabitants of
Varipasi. According to a Chinese tradition,’ there were more than
a thousand Brahmins in Tuan Sivan, a’ principality under Fu-nan,
The local people gave cheir daughters in marriage to them, and
followed their tenets. The Kambuja records also mention a number
of Brahmins who came from India. A Brahmin Hiranyadima came
from a janapada in India to teach Tantcic texts to Sivakaivalya, the
royal priest.’ Afcer that a Brahmin named Agastya came here and
married a princess named Yafomati.’’ The Brahmin Divakara of
Vrindavana on the Kalindi married Indumati, the daughter of Emperor
Rajendravarm*, Heisikesa of the Bharadvaja gotta came to Kambujadesa
from NarapatideSa (Brahma) and was the Royal Purohit of Emperot
Jayavarman VII. He married the daughter of a person at Brahmapura,
and had by her four sons and two daughters. The elder of the two
daughters became the queen of Jayavarman VILL." The Brahmins enjoyed
special positions in che court, Sivakaivalya and his descendants occu-
pied the status of royal purohits for well over 250 years. A Brahmin
named Vamasiva was the preceptor of Indravarman.’® Thus, it

‘The Brahma-ksatriyas are also noticed in the inscriptions from Champa, and also
mean India JRASB, (New Series) vol. V. 1909 p. 167).

3. The Vaigyas and Sidras are not noticed even in the Champa records. In
one inscription from Champa they are only casually mentioned (Majumdar;
Champa, p. 214.

Chatterji, Indian Culture in Kambuja, p. 8.

Pelliot, Fou-nan, BEFEO., vol. Il, p. 277.

Majumdar, Inscriptions of Kambuja, No. 152, p. 362.

Ibid., No. 60, p. 76. v. 5,

Ibid., No. 111, p. 285,

Ibid., No, 190, p. 541. 10 Ibid,, No, 158, p. 366,

Ce onans

Google
Some aspects of Social life in ancient Kambujadesa 87

appears that the Brahmins enjoyed the higest and supreme position,
and even princes of blue blood were also offered to them.

In the time of Séryavarman, there was the division into castes™
and Sivicirya was accorded the highest position in the social order.
Caste, however, did not interfere in the choice of an avocation. An
inscription’ refers to the members of a Brahmin family being
elephant drivers, royal concubines, artisans and priests. Certain new
castes were also created in the time of Jayavarman V. These were
Kbmuk and Karmantara. The same insctiption™® also refers to the
dcdtyas of the seven castes (saptavarn). In this connection we might
refer to the accounts of Arab historians, more particularly Ibn
Khurdad"* who, too, has referred to seven castes in Hindu society.
According to the inscription from Kambuja, cited above, the king,
after the performance of a grand sacrifice, asked the Guru to select,
from among the religious men and acityas of the seven castes, 20
persons for each of the two new castes, Kbmuk and Karmantara, and
they were the foundation members of the wonew castes. It was also
provided that they could be married to three superior castes, but not
vice-versa. The Emperor had given final sanction to the cteation of
these new castes. The Angkor Vat sculptures also depict people of
different castes, as is evident from their dress.

Besides these castes, we also find references to offsprings from
mixed marriages. An insctiption™® refers to the setting up of an
image of Trailokyavijayagiévara by Tribhuvanardja whose sister was
named Ten Vai and brother in-law Somavajca. There are reference
to names like Loiija Yudhisthira, Mritdii Jayendrapandita Mritafi Pri-

11 Majumdar, Kambuja Inscriptions, p. 353.

12 Ibid. No, 158, p. 410; accordidg to the Smritis, a man could take to
avocations other than the one prescribed for him in adverse circumstances.
(Gamtama, Chap. 7; Manu, 10:81 ; Yajiiavalkya 3: 35). In early Mediaeval
Indian inscriptions we also notice such instances e.g. a Ksatri cultivator, a
Ksatritailika (EI., vol. I, p. x49) and Brahmin cultivators (Kaman Ins).

13. Majumdar, Kambuja Inscriptions, No. 110A, p. 589.

14 Elliot and Dowson: History of India, vol. I, pp. 16-17; 74-93. These
ate Sabkufria, Brabma, Kataris, Sudaris, Basuria, Sandalia and Labud.

15 Majumdar, Kembuja Inscriptions, No. 113, p. 299.

Google InIV oe icuican
88 Some aspects of Social life in ancient Kambujadeta

thvindrapandita. Ie is, thus, not unusual to find mixed names
representing the offspings of martiages with the native population.
Marriage : The Brahmins seem to have enjoyed a privileged
position, and chey could mirty any one they liked. The Brahmin
gitls were also accepted in the Ksatriya group representing royal
blood. Bhavavarman I’s sister was martied to a Brahmin named
Somafarman and this lady is compared to Arundhati because of het
devotion to her lord.!* Yasovarman’s mother Indradevi was a descen-
dant of the family of Agastya who was well-versed and had come
to Kambujadesa from Aryadefa." Jayavarman II had married a Brah-
min gitl named Bhassvimini, and Yogesvara Pandita was a descendant
of that family.* Both the queens of Jayavarman VII were
Brahmins,* while the queen of Jayavarman VIII was the younger
daughter of a Brahmin from Narapatidesa, who had married a Brahmin
gitl named Prabba,?” YaSovarman had married his maternal uncle's
daughter which custom is popular in Southern India in
certain families?" The marital relations were generally arranged
by the parents, but one inscription mentions a lady named
Me Sok, grand daughter of Mritafi Sri Sarvadhikira who her-
self approached the author of the record with the proposal of marriage
and gave as dowry one horse and saddle and some other object.
Polyandry seems to have been practised. In one inscription*® there is
a reference to 43 male slaves and their nine wives. This was probably
common among the slaves and other lower castes. The Chinese
history of the Sui Dynasty notices certain social customs as existed
in Kambujadega in the seventh century A. D. The girl was given a
handsome dress, and members of both the parties used to stay together

16 Majumdar, Kambuja Inscriptions, No. 13, p. 19.
No, 182, p. 515.

No. 148, p. 351

19. Ref. No. 17.

1bid., No. p. 541.

op, cit 228

22, Ibid., No. 19A, p. 581,

23, Ibid., No, 23, p. 29.

24 Majumdar, Kambujadeta, p. 65.

Google
Some aspects of Social life in ancient Kambujadesa 89

for cight days. During this period the lamp used to burn the whole day
andnight, After marriage the boy used to live separately ‘rom his wife.
There is also areference to widow's remarriage”. Yuvaraja, the youngest
of the three sons of Hiranyavarman died and his widow became
successively the wife of his two elder brothers. It seems strange how
a younger brother's widow could be married to an elder brother.
Dress, Ornaments and Toilet: Information of this point is avail-
able from the Kambuja sculptures at Angkor Vat and certain Chinese
accounts. In this respect the Indian dboti was very prominent.
People tied it round the waist and had a band. It is also corroborated
by the Chinese historians, Ie is mentioned by Cheo-ta-kuen,2*
and the dboti was worn with a scarf thrown round both the shoulders.
A sculpture at Bayon depicts the king in this dboti with a bare round
his neck, According to the Chinese accounts, the dhoti was of a
very good stuff which was imported from the western seas. In one
inscription®™ there is a reference to Chinese silk. According to the
History of the Southern Tsi,2* persons of high family dressed them-
selves in brocade. It appears from the account collected by Remusat
that the demand for Bengal Muslin was high in the sixteenth cen-
tury.’ In the ‘History of the Sui Dynasty,’ it is mentioned that the
king was dressed in purple sill clothes which were embroidered. In
sculptures the Brahmins wear earrings like the king, but the warriors
have no ear-ornament though the lobes of their ears are bored for weat-
ing them, An inscription mentions golden car ornaments, rings,
bracelets, armlets along wich utensils which formed pare of the gift. The
sacrificial fee (daksina), wealth and other ornaments given by King Sri
Usdayadityavarmadeva included diadems(mukuta), eat-pendants(Kundala)
bracelets (Reyiira), wristband (kataka) and mukutavend? The best”

25 Majumdar, Kambuja Inscriptions, No. 174, p. 456.

26 Pelliot: BEFEO, vol. Ill, p. 296,

27 Majumdar, Kambuja Inscriptions, No. 177. p. 466, v. 44
28 Chatterji, Indian Influences in Kambujadeéa, p. 229.

29 Ibid. 30 Pelliot, BEFEO., vol Ill, p. 254.
31 Majumdar, Kambuja Inscriptions, No, 152, p. 369.
32 Ibid,

33 Grousset, Histoire de PExtreme Orient, vol, Il, p. 570.

Google i
g° Some aspects of Social life in ancient Kambujadesa

evidence of the use of ornaments put on by the ladies is furnished by
the famous dancer in the Turin Museum, who puts on ear pendant,
diadems, bracelets, waistband, armlets and bara.

Items of Food and Utensils: Rice formed the principal isem of
food, There are references to tandule (bbojana tandulanam*), which
was boiled (pakya tandula). Bhakta was any eatable grain boiled with
water. There are also references to seasoning which included pepper
and cardamum.’* The Ta Prohm inscription*” also mentions items of
food kbirys, tila, mudga, besides ghrita, dadbi, ksira, guda, madbu,
and taila, Clarified butter is also mentioned in another inscription,
The ‘History of the Sui Dynasty’ and that of the ‘Tang Dynasty’ also
mention some items of food of ancient Kambuja people. According
to the former work, food included a large quantity of butter, cream,
sugar and millet in the form of cake or bread. Before meals the people
took some morsels of meat with a little salt, The lateer work has
referred to drinking in private.* The utensils of th: people consisted
of pitcher (ghata), kettle (kedaba), bronze pitcher (kalate) bronze
plate (arava), large silver jars and caskets of gold and silver.

Pastime and Recreations: In the social life there was room for pas-
time and recreations. The inscriptions mention dancing, music and
theatrical performances. Dancing girls were well versed in vocal and
instrumental music, They were skilful in playing on lyres and other
instcuments, and were well versed in pipes and tala.‘ There is also a
reference to beautiful and well dressed men, skilful in dancing and
other arts.‘ Such dancers were dedicated to the cemples. One ins»
ctiption refers to the dedication of seven dancing girls,x1 songstresses,
four players on vind, kafijari and labu.? The Prah Einkosi inscrip-

34 Majumdar, Kambuja Inscriptions, 111, p. 290. v. 26,
35. Ibid., No, 145, p. 348.

36 [bid., No. 177, p. 467, wv. 53.

37. Ubid., 171, p. 587.

38 Pelliot, BEFEO., vol. Ill,

39 Majumdar, Kambuja Inscriptions, No. 66, p. 331.

40 Ibid., No. 111, p. 288, v. 7.

41 Ibid. No, 55, p. 64. v. 36.

42. Ibid., p. 588. Supplement. No. 6.

Google
Some aspects of Social life in ancient Kambujadesa gt

tion‘® mentions a number of musical instuments, kettle-dium (pataba),
the Indian flute (vind), bell (ghanta), a kind of drum (mridarige),
cymbal (panava), a kettle-drum (bberi), and kabala, There are fami-
lies noted for their musical talents. Dramatic performances were
also arranged. One inscription refers to a dramatic performance by

Jayavarman VII's sister-in-law who later on became his wife, and the
plot of this drama was adopted from the Jatakas.‘* Yajfiavaraha, the
guru of Jayavarman V was a good story teller and a dramatist.‘* Be-
side these, there. were several other items of recreation as well, One
inscription refers to a wrestling bout.’ Festivals were equally enjoyed.
The spring festival lasted for a week, and detailed rules for its celebra-
tion ate also given in an inscription.** In the time of Jayavarman one
of his officers, the governor of Adhyapura installed a religious festival
in honour of Siva on the third day of the month of Madhava (Caitra).
There were dancing performances on such occasions,

Family life and position of women: Women scem to have enjoyed
ahigh and respectable position in society. This was due to the indige-
nous matriarchal system, in which the mother had an upper hand.
In some inscriptions genealogy is traced from the mother’s line. Gene-
rally it was the father who had an upper hand, and the son succeeded
his father. One inscription‘* refers to the performance of Pitritarpana
by the son with water. The old man had also an important position
in’ the house. On a record there is a reference to the preservation of
the tooth of an old man.** Pobably this custom had litele meaning
save that the wisdom of the old man might continue in the family.
The ladies also created a number of endowments, Joint family was
usually in force.

Slavery ; This institution was flourishing in Kambujadesa. The
slaves were inherited, but sometimes they were also acquired from the

43, Ref. 39.

44 Majumdar, Kambuja Inscriptions, p. 503.

45. Ibid., No. 182, p, 524.

48 Ibid., No. 102, p. 274. v. 21.

47, Ibid., No, 1008. p. 584.

»No. 177, p. 470. wv. 83ff.

Jo. 30, p. 4%, V. 23, 50 Ibid., No. 49. p. 55.

Google
92 Some aspects of Social life in ancient Kambujadeée

conquered country. They were mostly attached to the temples. They
established marital relations among themseves, probably in a legal form
and with the consent of their lord. One inscription* mentions 42
male servants with their g wives. The number of children of slaves
are also. mentioned in another inscription."* The Prah Khan inscrip-
tion’? mentions 306 male and 372 female slaves from Champa,
Yavana, Pukam (i. ¢, Pagan in Burma) and Rvan, The slaves were
the exclusive property of the owner, and if any one fled and subse-
quently caught, the official cut off his nose and ears. One inscrip-
tion refers to the division of the products of the land among the
different chiefs of the slaves.**

Funerary Rites: The Chinese annals furnish some information on
this point, According to the ‘History of the Liang Dynasty’, there
were four kinds of disposal of che dead bodies: burning the body,
throwing it into the river, burying it in che ground, and leaving it in
the field for being eaten up by the birds. In case of mourning
there was also the custom of shaving the beard and the head. The
‘History of the Sui Dynasty’ also mentions some interesting points.
According to this work, the children of the deceased did not cat o
shave for seven days, and uttered loud cries. The dead body was
accompanied with priests and priestesses and with prayers and music,
and it was burnt with all kinds of aromatic woods. The ashes were
put in an urn of gold and silver and thrown in a big river. Sometimes
the body was left to be devoured by the beasts.

Wehave, thus, referred to the social life of Kambuja on the basis of
epigraphic evidence and the accounts available from the Chinese
annals as well as sculptural evidence. It would appear that the
influence of Indian culcure was perceptible in every sphere.

5 Majumdar, Kambuja Inscriptions, No. 81, p. 166.
52 Ibid. No. 51. p. 56.

53. Ibid,, No. 178, p. 477.

54 Ibid. p. 582.

55 Ibid, No. 81. p, 166,

56 Pelliot, BEFEO., vol. Ill. op. cit.

Google
Purvavideha
Buppxa PrakasH

According to the Buddhist geographical conception Mount Sinecu
(Sumeru) is situated at the centre of the world. In its east is the
continent called Pubbavideha, in its west is that named Aparagodina
or Aparagoyana, in its north is Utearakuru and in its south is Jam-
budvipa. From the aforesaid adjoining continents people came and
colonised Jambudvipa. The settlers from Pitvavideha christened the
eastern part of Jambudvipa as Videha; the immigrants from Apara-
godina named the regions where they came as Apatinta; the colonisers
from. Urtarakuru called theit new habitat KurudeSa. In this connec-
tion ie is significant that according to the Pseudo-Hindu geography
of Indo-china the region of Yunnan was known as Videharij, p:onoun-
ced as Videhayit, and its capital bore the name of Meittila (Sanskrit
Mithila). This Videharaj seems to correspond to Yunnan, and Meittila
to Yunnansen.? This is an instance of the transference of Indian
geographical nomenclature to foreign countries following the waves of
colonisation and cultural influence. The location of Eastern Videha
in Yunnan in the kingdom of Nan-tchao shows that India had close
connections with this region in ancient times. If the Pubbavideha
or Piitvavideha of the Buddhist accounts is identical with Videhataj or
the region of Yunnan, the tradition of the migration of people from it
to the province called Videha in India under king Mandhitri may be
equated with the theory of Parker® that the Nan-tchao kingdom
expanded westwards up to Magadha and embraced Assam and the
the valley of the Ganges. Pelliot* does not subscribe to this theory,
devoid as it is of sound historical evidence, but he admits that the Thai

1 Papaiicasidani, I, p. 434; Dhammapadaatthakathi (Sinhalese edition), II,
p. 482. G,P. Malalasckera, Dictionary of Pali Proper Names, Vol. Il, p. 236.
2 Sic J Scott, Gazetteer of Upper Burma and the Shan states, l,i, p. 219.
3. Parker, China Review, XIX, p. 73.
4 Paul Pelliot, Deux Itinéraires de Chine en Inde 2a fin du buitiéme
sigcle, Bulletin de l'ecole Francaise d’Exteéme Orient Vol. IV (1904) p. 160,

3
Google 7
94 Parvavideba

people occupied the regions of che upper Irawaddy and penetrated up
to Manipur and Assam in ancient times. Whatever may be the worth of
these traditions, they point to the contacts of the people of Eastern
India and Yunnan and show that they date from fairly early times.
As Buddhism was born in Eastern India it preserved these traditions
and gave prominence to Parvavideha, a region of seven thousand leagues
and the home of Acacia (SiriSa), as the first continent to be visited by .
a cakkavatti, when on tour.

Though Patvavideha is not mentioned in the geography of the
Purinas and the Epics, there are some references to the highlands of
Yunnan in them which suggest their acquaintance with the same.
Directing his envoys to traverse the regions of the east in search of Sita,
Sugriva exhorts them to trace her in the regions of rivers, forests and
mountain-fastnesses and to go to the Bhagirathi, Sarayii, Kausiki, Kalindi,
Yamunj, Sarasvati, Sindhu, Sona and reach the great mountain (Maba-
giti) called Yamuna.’ In the Saddbarma-smrtyupasthine-sitra tran
slated into Chinese by Gautama Prajfidruci in the sixth century A.D.
the geographical account of which is based on the same source from
which the information of lands and peoples of the Kiskindhakinda of
the Ramayana is derived, the reading for Yamuna is Andina. Both
these variants Yamuna and Aniina seem to have been based on some
such word as Yunnan and appear to refer to the mountainous regions
of this country. There is no other name among the mountains of the
east (Parvadik) which may correspond to Yamuna or Aniina. The
reading in the Ramayana is manifestly corrupt and has no relation to
the river Yamuni for this river has not lent its name to any eastern

mountain in Indian literature.
In the Brbatsambita of Varahamihira there is a reference to a tribe

Kigkindhakanda, ch. 40, verses 19-21
afirreg fer gal’ adaarerrrny
we dat + ae fred crUET TH
arta fafgilg ag a agtg a1
at ante’ Gat acy! afeat’ aat
sift agat wat aga & merhrfe |
aad? 9 farg’ a aig afofanzer 0
6 Sylvain Lévi, Pour Histoire du Ramayana, Journal Asiatique (1918) p, 16,

Google
Parvavideba 95

named Tila among the peoples of the northwest.’ Ordinarily we
do not come across this name in other Indian geographical accounts.
Pelliot has drawn our attention to the fact chat the Burmese call the
Chinese Tarop (Tarok) ot Taret even up ro the present times. This
ame is based upon the expression Tadli-kouo meaning the kingdom
of Tali? The valley of Tali was the cradle of the Nan-tchao
empire and when it was divided into two parts it was this very region,
dominated by the Touan, which maintained its relations with Upper
Burma. Hence the Burmese generalised the name of Ta-li to designate
the whole of China, The Indian word tala which is the same as
Tali ot Tarop-Taret signifies the people of Teli, and Yunnan
seems to refer to the Chinese people asa whole. It was probably
through Burma that this name came to India and found a place in the
geographical list of Varahamihira. Ie is significant that in the verse
cited above cing is conspicuous by absence. Here tala replaces cing
of the usual catalogues of che countries of the north particularly chat
of the Mabsbbirata where the Gandhiras and Cinas are bracketed
together in an enumeration of the peoples of the north-west®

The kingdom of Tali bad close connections with India in ancient
times. In the Tien-k’ien ki yeow of Tch’en Ting and the Yan-nan-
#ong-tche-keo the valley of Tali is called *‘the kingdom of the good
petfume of India.”!” In this description a connection is sought to be
established between Ta-li and gandba, the Indian word for perfume.
This word provides the etymology of the name gendbarva in Chinese

7 Brbatsarisbita of Varahamihira XIV, 22 (Bib, Ind, edition) Vol. I, p. 288.
fefn oRadteceat aressagarcaraeeant: |
TARFATETT: ATTICA: tt

8 Paul Pelliot, Dewx Itinéraires de Chine en Inde BEFEO., IV,

p. 161 fn. 1, °

9 Mababbarata, XI, 65, 13-15.
aaa: Pera Arar Creda: WeETET: |
USGI: FETA TENATATARST: I
ed ual afterta af freaafira: 1
afgda sd enem: af 8 qegatfra:

10 Paul Pelliot, Dewx Itinéraires de Chine en Inde, BEFEO., IV, p. 161,

Google
96 Parvavideba

texts, In the epithet of Ta-li it stands for the word gandbira which
was also a name of this region. Here gandbara and gandbarva seem
to have been confused by Chinese writers. We learn from the Jémi-
wt-Tawirikb of Fadlullah Rashiduddin Abul Khair that this region
was known as kandar or kandahar (Gandhara) in ancient times. Elliot
has translated his remarks as follows: —

“Another large country is called Kandahar which the Moghuls
call Karajang. These people spring from Khitai and Hind. In the
time of Kabilé ké-dn ie was subdued by the Moghuls. One of its
borders adjoins Tibet, another adjoins Khita and another adjoins
Hind......Philosophers have said that these are three countries
celebrated for certain peculiarities; Hind is celebrated for its armies,
Kandahar for its elephants and the Turks for their horses.”

Rashiduddin also notes that the country to the south-west of
Cathay was called Dai-liou or “great kingdom” by the Chinese and
that it was identical with che Karajang of the Mongols, the Kandar
of Hindu writers and Kandahar mentioned by him. Dai-liou mentioned
by this historian is che same as Ta-li of Chinese accounts, both dai and
ta meaning ‘great’, As for Karajang ot “black Jang”, Pelliot is
inclined to treat it as a Mongol transcription of the name of the
Ts'ouan, The ancient Ts'ouan was divided by the Chinese into ewo
groups of barbarians, the black and the white. The people of Nan-
tchao had mixed with them, Hence the Mongols called all the
peoples subject to Nan-tchao—those of Yunnansen and Ta-li—by the
name Karajang. But in a narrower sense this name was applied to the
people of Ta-li.® The fact chat this region was called Gandhara is
manifest from the remark that its boundaries touched China
and Tibet and chat it formed a pare of the empite of Qubilai Khan.
In Rashiduddin’s treatise on the life and and teachings of Buddha
which he owes to the Kashmirian Buddhist KamalaSti, the
population of (Qandahat) Gandhara is desctibed as Chinese-looking
having pierced ears (burida gosh).'* These data leave no room for

11 H,M. Elliot, History of India as told by its own Historians, vol. 1, p. 73s
12 Paul Pelliot, Dewz Itinéraires de Chine en Inde BEFEO., vol IV, p. 161.
13 Karl Jahn, Kamalashri-Rasbid-al-Din's Life and Teachings of Buddha,

Central Asiatic Journal, vol. II, no 2 (1956) p. go.

Google
Phrvavideba : 97

doubt that Qandabar or Gandhira represented the region of Ta-li and
Rashiduddin’s association of elephants with it is due to the confusion

of this Gandhara with the region of this name in the north-west of
India*

According to the legends of the XI century the king Anoy:
(Anuruddha) went to the country of Gandharataj (Gandhilayit) in
search of a tooth of Buddha.’® It is’stated in the Sasanavamsa that
this Kagmiragandhara was not at first included in Cinarattha (the
empire of China) but was subsequently incorporated in it* These
references clearly relate to the region of Ta-li which was known as
Gandhara. Some Hinduised peoples of Indo-China and Indonesia had
a tendency to transfer the geographical names of their parent country
to their new habitat and thus create around them a sortof New India.
Sometimes they sansktitised indigenous names so as to suit Indian’
designations and sometimes they imposed Hindu names on foreign
lands and suppressed their original coponyms. Yunnan was situated
to the north of Indo-China just as Gandhira was to the north of
India, it was flanked by mountain ranges which ran parallel co the big
rivers of Indo-China as its Indian counterpart was surrounded by
mountains, Thus the physical features as well as the grographical
location warranted the christening of Yunnan and Tali as Gandhara,

Te appears that these regions were formetly called Parvavideha and
later named as Gandhara. Ie is likely, as we shall see later, that these
two designations are symbolic of two waves and traditions of colonisa-
tion,

Paul Pelliot has held that the region of Yunnan and Ta-li was in
contact with India from the.third century B. C. or even earlier and it

14 Henry Yule, dn Endeavour to elucidate Rasbiduddin's Geographical
Notices of India, Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society, (1870), new series vol.
IV, pp. 355-358.

15 Alexander Phayte, History of Burma, p. 35-

16 Sasanavamsa (Pali Text Society edition) ed Mss. Bode p.8, The
reading Kaémica-gandhara was corrupted as Kosambi-gandhira in Burmese tradi-
tions. Ko-rham-prafi (Ko-shan-pyi), the new Shan country, is based on the
word Kosimbi, which was a corruption of Kafmira.

Google IIVERSITY © ‘
98 . Parvavidebs

was along the routes passing eheough them that India entered into cul-
tural and commercial relationship with China’. When the Chinese
traveller Tchang Kien discovered the Central Asiatic routes during the
reign of Emperor Wou-ti (140-87 B. C.) he was astonished to find
Chinese bamboos and fabrics being sold in Bactria and to leara that
they reached there through the caravans which traversed Nosthern
India (Shen-tou) and brought them from South China to Afghanistan,
Tehang K’ien's report is as follows: —

“When your servant was in Ta Hsia he saw large bamboos and
cloth of Shu (Szechuan). When he asked the people of Ta Hsia how
they obtained these things they told him that their merchants bought
them in Shen Tu (India) which is a country several hundred li south-
east of Ta Hsia and is a sedentary nation like Ta Hsia. Both Ta Hsia
and Ta Yuan are tributary to An Hsi (Parthia). So far as your
servant could judge Ta Hsia is 12,000 li (4,000 miles) from China.
As it is north-east of Shen Tu,’” this kingdom cannot be so far from
China.”

Pelliot holds that the goods of Yunnan and Szechuan were brought
into India by the Burma Road, which passed through Yung-tch'ang
and Wan-ting. But Walter Liebenthal thinks thac this commerce
passed along the route which led from Shu (Szechuan) to Lhasa and
Assam," He holds that the erack via Tibet was rarely used because
of hostilities. Before 751 this route must have been diffcule by reason
of the complete absence of traffic organization. Only a well-equipped
expedition could have survived of which no trace is available, Hence
pilgrims tried to bypass Tibet in the south and sometimes succeeded
in reaching their destinations bue this Tsang-K’o route never became a
trade route. The route from Szechuan to Assam is mentioned in
the Glossary of Huilin. Leaving Szechuan it passed through the

16a Pelliot’s view has been accepted and followed by A. Herrmann [Atlas
of China maps 23, 27, 28,] O. Franke [Geschichte des chinesischen Reicbes
p. 340, 4t0] and G, Coédés, [Les états bindouisés d’Indochine et Indonésie,
p. 108,

17 C.P, Fitzgerald, China: A short Cultural History, pp. 181-182,

18 Walter Liebenthal, The Ancient Burma Road—a legend? Journal of the
Greater India Society, vol. XV.

Google
Parvavideba 99

towns of Yii-yao, Yiich-hsi, Pu-wei and Yung-ch'ang inhabited by
the tribes called Ngai-lao which were named as Shen-tw'® after the
fall of the Han dynasty. Then moving in a western direction the
route entered the southern frontier area of Tibet and crossing rivers
and valleys and scaling mountain ranges and peaks it descended into
the south-eastern part of T’ien-chu in the region of Kimarapa. This
mountain path though short was very difficult and dangerous. This
route is also mentioned by Hiuen Tsang and is referred to in the
second itinerary of Kia Tan. Liebenthal holds chat the twenty Chinese
monks, mentioned by I-Tsing, who arrived in India during the reign
of Scigupta, who constructed a temple for them called Chinese Temple
(Chil-na-ssu) 40 yojanas to the east of the famous Mahabodhi Temple
at Nalanda,” came by this Tsang-K’o route. According to Pelliot
these pilgrims came by che Burma route.

Besides the evidence of Tchang K’ien, Pelliot’s theory of the
existence of the Burma road in the first two centuries before
Chrise is based on some other facts which are challenged by
Licbenthal. ‘The mention of a route from Ta-tsin to China through
Yung-ch’ang in the Wettiw has been interpreted by Licbenthal co
mean that a route led from Szechuan to the province of Yung-
ch’ang and reached modern Hanoi from where a sea route was
available, Pelliot's reference to the reign of Yung-yu-tiao in the
country of Shan who received a kind of imperial investicure in
97 and sent the musicians and jugglers from Ta-ts’in to the
Chinese court in 120 A. D. and sent an ambassy there in 132 A. D.
is also dismissed by Liebenthal on the ground chat a Shan kingdom
did not exist in Burma in 120 A. D. and that Shan kingdoms existed
in the lower valley of the lower Mekong and Central Annam which
were organized into the kingdom of Lin-i in the second century. The
tradition of KaSyapa Matanga and Chu Fa-lan, che first Buddhist

19 Yueb-hs wn in Hsi-k’ang on the road from West Szechuan to
Kunming and Pu-wei is identical with Yung-ch’ang, The fact that these places
were inhabited by the people bearing the name Shen-tu (Indian Sindbw) shows
that they were colonised by the Indians,

20 Edouard Chavannes, Mémoires sur tes religions éminents qni allérent
chercher la loi dans les Pays d'Occident, p. 82,

Google
100 Parvavideba

missionaries to China, reaching there through the route of the upper
Irawaddy and Yunnan, to which Pelliot looks for some elementof possi-
bility, is taken by Liebenthal to be based on the artival of the Buddhist
Patriarch Mahakasyapa in Yunnan about 1000 A.D.” Pelliot adduces
some linguistic evidence also to show that th: rulers of Nan-tchao bore
names and titles derived from Burmese words. Siun-ko-k’iuan son of
Yiemeou-siun, who ascended the throne in 808, assumed the title of
Piaorsin. After che death of this king this title continued to be adop-
ted by the rulers of this region and we come actoss it repeatedly in the
eleventh century. In Chinese the character p'iao represented the
Burmese pya and the title

in corresponded to the Burmese honorific
Pyi-shin (written as pri-thang) meaning the prince of the Pyi.
Among these rulers there was also a tendency to prefix che last syllable
of the name of the father to that of the son which is noticeable in the
royal genealogies of Burma. elliot draws our attention to the fact
also that the legend of Kieou-long found in the Heou-han-shou a fifth
century work recording the data of 25-220 was later engrafted on the
Buddhist tradition of the colonisation of che countties of Eastern Asia
by the sons of Agoka which has some significant Burmese features.
The legend relates to a woman Sha-yi who was struck against a float-
ing wood and thereby conceived and gave birth to ten sons. The
wood soon appeared as a dragon and claimed the sons as his own.
Nine of them fled for fear but the tenth sat on his back and became
the king of chose regions. This legend was later incorporated in the
Buddhist story of A-yu (Agoka) king of Magadha becoming the pro-
genitor of the kings of the eastern countries. According to this story
Afoka’s third son P'iao-tsiu-ti had a son named Ti-mong:tsiu by his
wife K’ieu-mong-k’ouei, who had nine sons who became ancestors of
the Tibetans, Chinese, Annamites, Singhalese, Nan-tchao, Pa-yi etc,
The fifth son Mong-tsiu-tou once sank and became a tree and gave
birth to Kicou-long as in the aforesaid legend. The names P’iao-tsiu-
ti and Ti-mong-tsiu resemble those of Pyii-so-t'i and his son T’iemin-
yi who are said to have ruled from the second to the fourth century in

21 Walter Licbenthal, Sanskrit Inscriptions from Yunnan, Sino-Indian
Studies, vol. V, Patt I, pp. 46-70.

Google WN OF MICHIGAN
Parvavideha 101

Burma according to the genealogical lists. It is noteworthy that the
Burmese kings from Pyi-so-t’i called themselves the descendants of
Mariya (Mautoa). Liebenthal’s’ objection to these data is that the
Burmese chronicles date from the fifteenth century whereas these tradi-
tions were current in Nan-tchao around goo which shows that the
legends in question passed from Yunnan to Burma rather than the
other way round, Besides this, the term P'iao was used to designate
a kingdom lying beyond the southern frontiers of Nan-tchao perhaps
in modetn Laos. elliot emphasises the fact that the hinduisation of
Teli was accomplished through the instrumentality of the Burmese as
is manifest from the royal titles of the rulers of Nan-tchao, In 752
‘A. D. the ruler of Tibet sent a message of friendship to Ko-lo-feng,
king of Nan-tchao with a seal on which he was entitled ‘emperor of
the east” (cung-ti) or Udayaraja. In 754 his successor I-mu-hsin
adopted che title of ‘King of the cast of the sun’ (Siiryodayaraja). The
title twng is the same as Sansktit wdaya which forms part of the titles
of the Burmese kings as Udi-(Udi bhva). Here Liebenchal objects
that these titles are of modetn date and do not presuppose any ancient

relationship. The aforesaid arguments of Pelliot and Liebenthal relate
only to the overland route by which Sino-Indian cultural contacts were
first inaugurated, elliot favours the Burma roue which started from
Teli, traversed Yong-t’chang, passed through Kao li-kong-shan to the
west of the Salwin, bifurcated there, one branch leading directly to
the west and the principal route directly joining the Irawaddy region
in the south-west, whereas Liebenthal argues for the Tibetan tricks
or the tsang-k’o route mentioned above. Both of them, however,
agree that the overland route joined Eastern India and Southern China
for the first time in history. Let us study the data of Indian texts
relating to this question.

Te is well-known that in the Mababbarata the Cinas appear with
the Kirdtas among the armies of king Bhagadatta of Pragiyotisa or
Assam. In the Sabbaparvan this king is described as surrounded by

22 Mababbirata, Sabhaparvan, 26, 9.

a facia atta ga: seeafadswat |
arte aghnatd: arruqeafati:

Google case
102 Parvavideba

the Kirdtas and the Cinas.** In che Bbigmaparvan the corps of Bhaga-
datta consisting of the Kirétas and the Cinas of yellow colour appeared
like a forest of karpikaras.®* Ic is significant that the Kiratas represent-
ed all the peoples living to the east of India in the estimation of the
geographers of the Purinas.* Even the dwellers of the islands of the
Eastern Archipelago were treated as Kirdtas in the Epics.*© The
reference to their wealth of gold, silver, gems, sandal, aloewood, textiles
and fabrics clearly demonstrates their association with the regions
included in Suvarnadvipa** Thus the connection of the Kirdtas and
the Cinas is a sure indication of the fact that the Indians came to
know of the Chinese through the eastern routes and considered them
as an Eastern people having affinities to the Kitatas, who were the
Indo-mongoloids inhabiting the Tibeto-Burman regions and the
Himalayan and East Indian territories, the word kirdta being a deriva-

tion from kirdnti or kirati, the name of a group of peoples in Eastern
'Nepal.2t

23 Mababbirata, Bhismaparvan, V, 584

wage agra: aarrdhfeat eh
wer tt: ferrder siete Saar
ail waned afgerert aa 1

24 Markandeyapurana, 57, 5-7 Pargiters’ translation pp, 283-214.
St facta qeaea oft Taare 1
arergr: feat Azar: garensa: fire fat: 0

25 Ramayana, Kigkindhikanda, 40, 27-28
‘WGA aMaraT Ta TENT: |
fecaretreuagra tara frag: 0
muaitarerararte fecrar Avatar:

» Sete her acon gfe SEAT

26 Mababbarate, Sabhiparvan, 30, 26-28,
ag ha sna afeeraget |
a ole egret arrester:
sumer wart fafrenfa 1
ararmeranfy afqtineraay It
sant ore Sa fags Fae

27 Suniti Kumar Chatterji, Kirdta-jana-krti, Journal of the Royal Asiatic

Society of Benagl (Letters) Vol. XVI (1953) p. 169.

Google
Parvavideba 103,

In early Indian literature China is invariably shown to be connected
with India by a land route actoss the country of the Kititas in the
mountainous regions of the north. In the Vanaparvan of the Maba-
bbarata the Pandava brothers are said to have cfossed the country of
the Cinas in course of their trek through the Himalayan territory
north of Badri and reached the realm of the Kirfta king Subahu.*
The Cinas are brought into intimate relationship with the Himalayan
peoples (Haimavatas) in the Sabbapervan also. The land of the Haima-
vatas is undoubtedly the Himavantappadesa of the Pali texts,” which
has been identified with Tibet or Nepal. In the Sasanavarnsa this
region is stated to be Cinarattha.*® Thus it is clear chat China was
known to the Indians as lying across the Himalayas and
ingly included in the Himalayan territories. In the Na
inscription of Virapurusadatta, China (Cina) is said to be lying in the
Himalayas beyond Cilita or Kirdta.*? These references to the proximity
of China to the Himalayan regions inhabited by the Kirdtis show that
there were regular routes through the Tibeto-Burman territories along
which the Indians could reach China, Some such land route is implied
in the remark of the Harsacarita of Banabhatta that Arjuna conquered
the Hemakiita region after passing through Cina? Of Course, the
route across Central Asia is perhaps alluded to in the itinerary of

28 Mababbarata, Vanaparvan, ch. 177, verses 11, 12, 13,
aie’ seadetd feat wa: fencafetie |
ad frard seat fe asta tfecegahTrO Uv
Far aAGnAT AT TTI TIT TAT 1
fager are gfaat aqal fecracrat fare gare: 0
atiegarery aire eat arg sfereer a afer
ater oY feared ge gndttegz ata: 1

28 Mababbirata, Sabbaparvan, ch. 47, verse 19

. anitarrergiies souiegaaa rere tt

29 Mabavamsa, XII, 6 (Hindi tr, of Anand Kausalyayana) p. 64.

30 Sasanavarnsa, op, cits, p. 13.

3 B.C, Law, Historical Geography of Ancient India, p. 73.

32 Harsacarita, ed,, P.V. Kane, p. 59. anqea: aeaaiat atafrarafaars

Te gaggle eeEhraged MEET TE

Google
104 Parvavideha

Cirudatea from the Indus Delta to China across the country of the
Hiinas and the Khasas described in the Vasudevabindi*® and there is
probably a reference to the sea route passing through Vanga, Takkola
and Suvarnabhimi in the Milindapatibo.t But there is no doubt that
iin a large number of ancient Indian texts China is mentioned neat the
Eastern Himalayan régions through which regular routes connecting
this country with India passed from fairly carly times. Ie was along

these routes that India came into contact with China for the first time
and developed commercial relations with her chat are referred to by
Chang Klien in the second century B.C, Liebenthal holds chat the
Tibetan routes were more ancient chan che Burma Road. But it is
certain that the southern parts of China notably Yunnan and Tai were
known to the Indians in quite remote times. ‘Thus the early existence
of the Burma route is not an impossibility though che Tibetan route
was also known to the Indians. Liebenthal himself observes, “I do not
doubt that people went there (Burma) before that date (858 A. D.)
bur I know of no documentary evidence.”*

Ie is clear from the above discussion that the eastern land routes
brought India and China into cultural and commercial contact for the
first time. The itinerary of Chang K’ien shows that the Central Asiatic
route was opened long after the discovery and use of the eastern routes
and that the articles brought from Southern China through them to
India were taken to Bactria before his arrival there in 128 B,C. As
for the sea route it was also popularised long after the eastern land
routes. K. A. Nilakanea Sastri has quoted a passage from the T’sin ban
shou of Pan K’ou, a Chinese writer of the first century A. D., to show
that the sea route from China to Southern India was known in the second
century B.C. and men and materials began to reach China in along it in
that century.** The route described in this text started from Je-nan, Siu-

33 Vasndevabindi (Gr. tr. of Bhogilal Sandesta), pp. 191-192.

34 Milindapaiibo ed. Trenckner, p. 359 At p. 327 of this work Cina is
coupled with Vitala which is a variant of Kirata.

35 W. Liebenthal, The Ancient Burma Road—A Legend? J.GLS., vol.
XV, (1959) p. 6.

36K. A, Nilakanta Sastri, The Beginnings of Intercourse between India and
China, Indian Historical Quarterly (1938), Winternitz Memorial volume, p.380.

Google
Parvavideba 105,

wen and Ho-p’ou and passing through the kingdoms of Tou-Yuan
and Yiclou-mo reached Chen-li. From there a land route led to Fou-
kan-toulou (Pagan) and from that place the sea route again started by
which a boat could reach Houang-tche in more than two months. It is
stated that from the time of Emperor Wou (140-86 B.C.) the kingdom
cof Houang-rche had been sending tribute to the Chinese court and the
traders and mariners of China used to frequent it for purchasing pearls,
glass, rare stones and strange products in exchange for gold and silks.
This route is said to have been infested with pirates and beset with
tempests, A safe journey is, however, reported to take many years
to go and return. Ie is also remarked that in the period of Yuan-che
(1-6 A.D.) the revolutionary emperor Wang Mang sent rich presents
to Houang-che and requested its ruler to send an embassy with a live
rhinoceros. Nilakanta Sastti identifies Houang-tche with Kanci follow-
ing the view of G. Ferrand, But Herrmann locates this region in
Abyssinia and Berthold Laufer in Malaya, We know that the current
of Indian colonisation in the Eastern Archipelago started about the
begnining of the Christian era in the wake of the improvement of the
technique of navigation in the Indian Ocean.” Thus the aforesaid
reference to the sea-route can be dated in the latter half of the second
century or the first century B.C, at the earliest if the identification of
Houang-tche with Kanci is caken to be correct. The discovery of the
Chinese coin at Candravalli_ in Mysore, out of the various dates, 138
B.C., 502 A.D. and 886 A.D. suggested for which, the earliest falls
in the period noted above leads toa similar inference.** Yet there
are some indications of the still higher antiquity of the eastern land
routes which brought China into contact with Northern India.

We have seen above that che Cinas figure in the retinue of the
Assamese king Bhagadatta in association with the Kiratas. No early
Indian text associates che Chinese with Southern India, Hence it is
unlikely that the first acquaintance of the Indians with the people of
China was made in che south, elliot has drawn our attention to the

37 Buddhaprakash, Kantilya Studies Il, Poona Orientalist, 1957.

38 Mysore Archaeological Reports (1910,) p, 44. For the view of the
Japanese scholar Takasaki vide M. G, Dikshit, A Chinese Coin from Sirpur,
Journal of the Numismatic Society, of India (1956), vol. XVIII, p, 66 fo, 1.

Google
106 Parvavideba

fact that in the fourth century B.C. the Chinese knew the lion, which
is not found in their country, by an Indian name,** Later on in the
first century A. D. they came to know of the lion through Persia and
adopted the Icanian name for this animal in their nomenclature. This
evidence of the contact of the Chinese with the Indians in the fourth
century B.C, is strengthened by Indian and Greek notions which
dominated the scientific and philosophical thought in China in that
century and gave it anew tone and orientation.‘* These contacts
resulted from the intercourse of the peoples of these countries which
proceeded along the eastern land route since the sea route was quite
unknown in that age.

A. significant evidence of the antiquity of the eastern land route is
afforded by the prevalence of the word Cina as a name for China in
India. I have shown elsewhere that in India the country called Cina
was invariably associated with the Ts'in dynasty and its great emperor
Ts'in Shih Huang Ti up to the time of Hiuan Ts'ang.* Berthold
Laufer objected to the derivation of the name Cina from Ts'in on the
ground that the Chinese did not call chemselves by this name. He
rather suggested that Cina has been the ancient, perhaps Malayan,
ame adhering to the coast of Kuang-tung province and the coastline
further to the south, in times anterior co the settlement of the Chinese
in those regions. This name distinctly pointing to the coastal regions
of Southern China spread along the maritime route of the Indian Ocean
to the west and became the basis of Thinai of the Periplas Maris
Erythraci, Sinai of Ptolemy, Tainitza of Kosmos Indikopleustes and
Marcianus of Heraclea and China of modern western languages in
contradistinction to the continental names Seres and Serike which
related to the coherent land mass of Northern China and spread in the
west overland.*? But Pelliot has conclusively proved thac in pre-Chris
tian times China was known to the Hiung-nu of Central Asia as the

39 Paul Pelliot, La Hante Asie, p. 8.
40 [bid., pp. 7.8, 9-

4t Buddhaprakash, Kantilys Studies 11, Poona Orientalist (1956) pp. 25-35+
42 Berthold Laufer, The name ‘China’, Toung Pao, (1912) vol. XIII,

Pp. 719-726,

Google
Pirvavideba 107

land of T’sin and the Chinese were called the people of T’sin. He
draws our attention toa report on the hardships of an enterprise
against the Hiung-nu which resulted in the destruction of the army
of Li-kuang-li under emperor Wou (140-87 B.C.'. In this report
there is a reference to the tethering of a horse near the rampart of a
town, where the Chinese were garrisoned, by the Hiung nu and their
ironical exhortation, ‘come soon to inform the people of T’sin, we give
you:a horse for coming soon”. In a passage of the T’ien han shu the
Chinese fugitive Wei Lu is said to have advised the Shan-yu of the
Hiung-nu who was bent upon attacking China in 83-82 B,C. (120
years after the fall of the T'sin) to dig wells, build walls, construct
towers and entrust their management to ‘the people of T’sin’. Thus
it is clear that in the Hiung-nu period the Chinese were called in Central
Asia as ‘the people of T’sin.**”
Asia as Tabghac or T’o-pa in the age of the T’ang after the name of
the T’o-pa (Wei) dynasty that ruled chere from 386 to 556 A.D.
After that China became famous in Central Asia as Kitai or Khitai
(Cathay) after the.dynasty of Ki-tan that ruled her from 916 to 1125
A.D. Not only in Central Asia but also in Japan the Chinese were
sometimes called the people of T’sin. Ina passage of the Japanese
Nibongi there is a reference to the coming of the men of T’sin and
of Han in 540 A.D. Alll these references show that China and ber
people were known as T’sin after the great T’sin dynasty that unified
and strengthened her. In India this name was transcribed and spelt
as Cina and the fact that this name became current in India shows
that the Indians came to know of the exploits cf the T’sin dynasty
at a time when it was identified with the county asa whole. This
knowledge of Chinese affairs long before the discovery of the Central
Asiatic routes presuppose a regular intercourse of the Indians and the
Chinese along the eastern land routes, Ie is significant that che
cighteenth century Tibetan writer Dharmasirya-stibhadra stated that
Cina was‘identified by some authors with the Dvipa Parvavideha,
which the people of India called Mabicina, Evidently the region of

Later on China was known in Central

43 Paul Pelliot, L’Origine du nom de Chine T’oung Pao (1912), Vol. XIII,
PP. 727-742.

Google
108 Parvavideba

Yunnan served as a ctoss-roads of the Indians and the Chinese in
ancient times.

In the period of the T’ang an attempt was made to reclaim and
reopen the routes of Yunnan. The highways to Yunnan were of Siu-
tcheou, Tong-tch’ouan, Yunnan-sen and the valley of Kien-tch’ang.
The route of the Red River was used later and that of Kouei-tcheou
was extremely difficult. The Chinese of the T’ang period preferred
the route of Kien-tch’ang. In the period Teheng-kouan (627-649 A.D.)
Licou Po-ying the governor of Kien-tch’ang demanded that the
barbarians of Song-wai be punished and suppressed so that the route
of Si-eul ho (the river of Tali) and T'ien-tchou India) be opened.
Accordingly some years later the T'ang emperor sent an army under
general Leang-kien-fang to reduce the tribes of Song-wai. This army
penetrated up to Si-eul-ho and in consequence the tribes settled on the
Yang-tsen and the Tali paid tribute to the Imperial court in 648-656
A.D. But at that time the Tibetans made their début into the history
of Asia.’ At first they were friendly to the Chinese and in 648 thei
king placed a garrison at the disposal of the Chinese envoy Wang
Hiuan-t’so who was driven out from Magadha following the outbreak
of a revolution. But after some time they fell out with the Chinese
and in 670 wat flared up among them. Asa result the Tibetans
extended their sway over Western Sseu-tch’ouan and the north-
western part of Yunnan, In 680 the Chinese were forced to renounce
the post of Yao-tcheou which they had set up in Yunnan a little to
the north of modern Yao-tcheou in 621. Ie was then in 688 that
they made another bid to resuscitate their hold over those regions and
created seven posts to the south of Yang-tsen. In 698 the governor
of Tch’eng-ton named Tchang kien-tche sent a report to the Imperial
court and drew its attention to the fact that the preceding dynasties
established their hold over Yunnan with great advantage through
which they could communicate with Ta-T’sin and with Tonkin. He
pleaded for the abandonment of the costly defence posts atid recom-
mended that an official mission be lefe co deal with the barbarians.
But his plan was not heeded and in 740 another attempt was made to
subjugate these regions. Ie appeared that che routes of Yunnan and
India had passed under the control of the Chinese but the conflict of

Google :
Parvavideba 109

the Chinese and the Tibetans gave birth to the state of Nan-tchao
which was an important centre of Buddhist culture.

There is a traditin that AvalokiteSvara came directly from Central
India to convert the people of Nan-tchao, Towards the end of the
eighth century seven religious teachers from India dissuaded the king
Yi-meou-siun from his liking for Chinese culture and allegiance to the
Ta'ng court. In the first half of the ninth century a monk of
Magadha named Candragupta showed remarkable feats of thaumaturgy
in Yunnan. He founded a monastery named Yiian-hua-ssu in Ho-
ch’ing (four day’s journey north east of Tali). Another man called
Li (with shaggy eyebrows) who was known as ‘the wise’ went from
India and played some part in the constcuction of Ch’ing-sheng ssu, a
monastery outside the walled town of Ta-li. In the first half of the
ninth century an Indian community flourished in Nan-tchao. About
1000 A.D, the patriarch Mahakiyapa introduced Ch’an Buddhism
in Yunnan, The Buddhists of this region were so zealous as to
transfer the names of the sacred sites to their habitat and thus to create
anew holy land in their country. We learn from the traveller Tch’en
Ting that the 300 religious men sent abroad by the Chinese emperor
in 964 in search of sacted books in India reported on their return in
976 that they saw the Kukkutapadagiri, the stone house of Upagupta,
Rajagtha, the Grdhrakiita hill, the Stipa of Anand and the cave of
Pippala in Tali, The prevalence of all these holy names of Indian
Buddhism in Ta-li is an evidence of the depth of Indian influence in
the culture of that country.

The Buddhists of Yunnan developed a distinct legendary lore
showing the antiquity of their relations with India. In the Po-kuo-
‘yin-ya we come actoss the story of the colonisation of this country by
Afoka. He entrusted it to his second son P’ao-hsin-ch’i, This
dynasty was given the family name Chang by the Han. These Chang
were driven out by a Raksasa who tyrannised over the country. At
last Kuan-yiu-p’u-sa arrived and begged of him land as large as the
monk’s robe. At the time of measurement the robe went on
expanding till it covered the whole country. Thus the tyrant was
driven out and the Chang ruler was reinstated.

In Yunnan there is a large number of old Pagodas. Some of them

Google
110 Parvavideba

are the oldest and the most beautiful-in China. Their cornices and
corner decoration showing rows of pitchers (mangala ghata) betray
unmistakable Indian influence. Many bricks of these pagodas bear
Sanskrit inscriptions containing Buddhist mantras and formulae in a
script which is identical with chat current in Nalanda and Kimaripa
in the ninth century.‘ The beautiful bronze statue of Avalokites-
vara from the pagoda of Ch’ung-sheng-Ssu near Torli is an index to
the high standard of culture and craftsmanship attained by the
Buddhists of Yunnan.**

The pagodas of Yunnan were copied from the Chan-ngan pagodas
which were built by members of the Wei ch’ih family who came to the
court of the T’ang as hostages from Khotan in the seventh century and
settled there. Ie is likely that they contributed to the culture of
Yunnan also. Along this Central Asiatic route a stream of colonisation
might have reached Yunnan from Northern India and Afghanistan.
But in earlier times the people of the east, Magadha and Videha, were
in contact with Yunnan as the traditions of Parvavideha show,

This ancient Indian colony in the south of China was the cradle
of Sino-Indian cultural relationships for a long time.t*

W, Liebenthal, Sanskrit Inscription from Yunnan I, Monumenta Serica

XII (1947); A Sanskrit Inscription from Yunnan, Sino-Indian Studies III, 1, 2
(4947); Sanskrit Inscriptions from Yunnan Il, Sino-Indian Studies V, i (1955)
pp. 46-70; The Ancient Burma Road, JGIS., XV, 1 (1956) p. 16,

45 Walter Licbenthal, An Early Buddba Statue from Yunnan, Indian
Historical Quarterly, XXXII, 2-3, (1956), pp. 352-353-

46 Besides Buddhism Saiva cults were also popular in Yunnan as is manifest
from the prevalence of the cult of Mahakala there,

Google
The Astadagavyavahara in Old Javanese*

By Dr, F. H. van Naerssen

Translated from the Dutch by Eva M. Hooykeas, B.A.

[357] Manu enjoyed in old Java the same veneration that was
formerly, and is still today, accorded him by the Hindus in India.

Numerous Old-Javanese writings refer to him as the primordial
ruler and law-giver. In the Rsi-Sésana he is the first ruler who pro-
mulgated the SaivaSisana for the Saivites.! The document called
the Saivasasana, which is cast in the form of a praSasti, or edict, is said
to originate from ‘bhattira prabhu Manu, piduka $i mahi
rules in Médang.”*

Manu’s code of law is also mentioned in several Old-Javanese ins-
criptions—those of the Tumapél-Majapahit period—in connection with
the mysterious ‘kutara’, It is said of two parties involved in a lawsuit
that they ‘Pinametakén Sastradrsta, deSadtsta, udaharana, gurukaka,
makatanggvan rasagama ti sang hyang Kutaramanavadi +» fare tested
by the desa [village] regulations, which rest on royal command, by the
unwritten adapt [customary]law, by the precedents, by the ‘ancient
teachers”, while at the same time the intention of the teachings, princi-
pally of the most sacred Kutiramanava is also observed.*

© Original title: ‘De Astadacawyawabara in het Oudjavaansch? in Bydra-
gen tot de Taal-, Lands en Volkenkunde van Nederlandsch Indié (Contributions
to the Indonesian Philology, Geography and Ethnology) Vol. 100, 1941,
p. 351-376; with Summary, on p, 377.—All W’s of the original have been sub-
stituted by V's. and the g's by $,

1 Th, G. Th. Pigeaud, De Tantu Panggélaran, The Hague, 1924,
PP. 299-300.

2 Idem, pp. 301-302.

3 JeL. A. Brandes and N. J. Krom, Oud-Javaansche Oorkonden (Verhande-
ingen Koninklijk Bataviassch Genootschap van Kunsten en Wetenschappen,
deel LX) itc., Old Javanese Charters (Proceedings of the Royal Batavian Society
of Arts and Sciences, vol, LX) (henceforth abbeviated to OJ.0.) LXXXV,
5b-6a,

Google
112 The AstadaSavyavahira in Old Javanese

That this code of law must have been well-known in Java is also
apparent from the frequent occurrence of quotations from it, either
as original [358] Sanskrit verses or verse fragments, of translated into
Old-Javanese,

There exists an important Old-Javanese document, the Parvadhi-
gamat which is important mainly for our knowledge of social rela-
tions during the Majapahie period. This work, which is also called
SivaSasana, because some manuscripts end with the words ‘iti Sivasa-
sana,’ is a charter intended for the Saivite clergy. ‘The remarkable thing
about this document is chat it is drawn up in the form of a pragasti.
The several pericopes of which the praSastis usually consist are clearly
recognizable in it, Just as in the charters of endowment, there is a
lise of officials’ in this case they are the Saivite dharmadhyaksa
and the seven upapattis, known from the charters of the above-men-
tioned petiod of HinduJavanese history, an enumeration of the
mangilala drvya haji, who are forbidden to enter the lands dedicated to
the foundation ; we encounter the sukha dukha, or benefits and
burdens, hete also expressed in the well-kown maxims, the limitations
of particular officers (pande vési, etc.), the privileges, etc. ; it ends
with the curse formula, At the end of the document are the same
Sanskrit lines of verse which also occur in soime of the prafastis of
the Tumapél-Majapahit period.” The Pirvadhigama is also instruc-

A. B. Cohen Stuart, Kawi Oorkonden. Inleiding en transcriptie (Kawi
charters, Introduction and transcription, henceforth abbreviated to K. 0.)
XVI, 1a.

4 H.H.Juynholl, Suppl. Cat, Javaansche en Madoereesche handschriften
der Leidsche Universiteits-Bibliotheek, (Suppl. Cat, Javanese and Madurese
manuscripts of Leiden University Library) 1911, pp. 191-193.

5 F,H. van Naetssen, Twee koperen oorkonden van Balitung in het
Koloniaal Instituut te Amsterdam, Bijdragen tot de Taal-, Land-en Volkenkunde
van Nederlandsch Indié (Two copper charters of Balitung in the Colonial Ins-
titute at Amsterdam. Contributions to the Philology, Geography and Ethnology
of the Netherlands East Indies) henceforth abbreviated to BKI) vol, 95, 1937,
pp: 447-448"

6 Idem, De Saptopapatti: BI, 90, 1933, pp. 239-258.

7 E.g,, OJO,LXXIX, 7a; Kern, Verspreide Geschriften, vol. 7, pp. 17-53:
KO Il; Tijdschrife voor de Taal-, Land-en Volkenkunde van Nederlandsch

Google
The Astadasavyavabira in Old Javanese 113

tive because many words are defined of explained which in the.inscrip-
tions are assumed to be known.

A prafasti, now, is a charter of endowment in which privileges
are recorded and in which both the beneficiary and benefactor and
also other persons involved in the endowment, are mentioned by title
and by name.

From the nature of the case the Patvadhigama is kept more general;
it is intended for ‘para mpungku makabehan, sahana sang gumégé
Sivgama,’ i. e., for ‘all the clergy, such as adhere to the cult of Siva.?
A reading of the text makes [359] it convincingly plausible that the
whole clerical class of that time enjoyed privileges. We may go even
further and regard the Pitvadhigama as a sort of handbook from
which the pragastis were composed.

There is a passage in the Parvidhigama which enumerates the
requisite qualifications of a ‘prigvivaka’ (Sanskrit pridvivaka), chat is,
the adjudicator in legal disputes They are as follows: —

‘Nihan Ivir sang pragvivaka. Yan hana sira dang acarya sampirna
vruh nira ting sarva Sastra, makidi ng dharmaSistra Kutaraminavadi,
Sarasamuccaya, Canakya, Kamandakadi, tan kévéran sia ring rusit
bélahaning padirthanikang asadaSavyavahara mvang lokika prayoganya
sahopadeSanya tékéng udaharana, mavas vrub nirérika kabeb, saka ri
kasarvajnatvanira rikéng sarva Sastra, sang samangkana kramanira
prigvivaka ngaranira. Sira vyavabira vicchedaka, ri denira n vénang
mégatakéna sarva vyavasthining loka mvang vada ning wang ring
satva rajya. Nahan hetunira n sinangguhan prigvivaka.

Translation: —

A prigvivaka must be as follows: An Acirya whose knowledge of
the various textbooks is complete—in the first place of the dharmaSas-
tras, the Kutaraminava and so forth, the Sirasamuccaya, Canakya,
Kamandaka and so forth—and who does not become confused by the
difficulty of the contrasts when he hatmonizes the (following) two

Indié, uitgegeven door het (Koninklijk) Bataviaasch Genootschap (van Kunsten
en Wetenschappen), (Journal of Indonesian Philology, Geography, and Ethno-
logy, published by the Royal Batavian Society of Arts and Sciences) henceforth
abbreviated to TBG) vol. 76, 1936, p. 378.

Google
114 The Astadasavyavabira in Old Javanese

aspects: (1) the contents of the eighteen points of litigation and (2)
the everyday customs with their resultant teachings and precedents,
His insight into all these matters must be clear by reason of his
knowledge of all these textbooks. Such a man is called prigvivaka.
He is an adjudicator in legal cases and therefore qualified to take
decisions in the case of social resolutions and disputes among the
people of the whole state, That is why such a man is called
prigvivaka.

Te appears from the text chat this refers to the dharmadhyaksa and
the seven upapattis mentioned previously in the document. They are
pragvivaka and also vyavahica-vicchedaka. The inscriptions also
agree with the Parvadhigama in this respect. In them this body of
dharmadhyaksa and upapattis is also called pragvivaka and vyavahica-
vicchedaka. The similarity in the wording between this [360]
passage of the Pirvidhigama and the charters Trawulan, Gunung
Butak®, Sidotéka’®, Béndosati®, and of Stkar!* is striking. This is
one of the indications for placing the document in the same period as
the promulgation of the charters ; i.e, of those charters in which
the body of upapattis is mentioned with full epithets, which became
usual after the appearance of the Gunung Burak charter in Saka 1216.
This date, then, brings us to the beginning of the Majapahie period.
The Patvadhigama was probably put on record in the heyday of this
state. The document probably then took the shape in which we now
know it from the manuscripts."

That it is to be dated from the time shortly before the appearance
of Erlangga, and that it should be the same work as the SivaSasana,
mentioned in the charter of 913 Saka, is a misapprehension in

8 Oudheidkunding Verslag (Acchaclogical Report), (abbreviated to OV)
1918, pp. 109-r10,

9 Pararaton ed. J.L.A. Brandes and N. J. Krom (Proceedings Royal Batavian
Society of Arts and Sciences, ie,, Verh. Bat, Gen. K, en W. vol. LXII), p. 94.

10 OJO,, LXXXIII.

11 OJO,, LXXXV,

12 TBG,, vol, LIL, p. 433.

13 With few exceptions, these date from amore recent, ic., Balinesh,
period,
The Astadasavyavahira in Old Javanese 15

Professor Krom’s ‘Hindoe-Javaansche geschiedenis (Hindu-Javanese
History’), which is probably based on the erroneous datum of Van det
Tuuk’s ‘Kawi-Balineesch Nederlands Woordenboek” (Kawi-Balinese-
Dutch Dictionary). The name, or epithet ‘Ist? Dharmmavangta
t&guh Anantavikramotunggadeva,’ which belongs to the promulgator
of the inscription of 913 Saka, does not occur in the text of the
Parvadhigama, but only in the Balinese glossary, which dates from
recent times. Anyone who has consulted a Balinese glossary of this
type knows that it is usually based to a considerable extent on the
imagination of the commentator.

The Pirvadhigama, then, received its final form in the heyday
of the Majapahit Empire, probably at the time when, according to the
Nigarakrtigama, the old prafastis were subjected to close examination
by the ruler. Cantos 72 to 82 of Prapafica’s poem"? make mention of
this, When reading through these cantos one receives a strong
impression chat a sort of organization of the different classes must
have been coupled with the settlement of the endowed lands. This
duality comes very [361] much to the fore in the first verse of
canto 81, which we quote and translate here, for other reasons
as well.

Ging ny Srambha narefvaré pagtha sang tripaks? Javal pirwvacira
niréng praSasty alama tang rinaksénivé||kotsahan haji yatna don ira
vineh patik gundala] tan vismgtya niréng citadhigama Sastra len Sasana. |]
We are indebted to Professor Schrieke for the correction Sastra in line
4, from Siksa, which does not sound in key between adhigama and
Sasana. In translation the stanza reads: —

The scope of the king’s interference consisted in the confirmation
of the three religious sects in Java (in their rights). Their original
line of conduct (laid down) in the old praSastis, these were maintained
and acted upon. It was the fixed will of the king to promote this,
For that purpose a ‘patil gundala’ was given so that the line of con-

14 N. J. Krom, Hindoe-Javaansche Geschiedenis, 2nd ed. The Hague,1931,

pp. 230-231.
15 Nigarakrtagama, ed, H. Kern, The Hague, 1919.

Google
116 The Astadatavyavabara in Old Javanese

duct embodied in the adhigama, the Sastra, and the Sasana_would not
be forgotten.

If in the original the fourth line did in fact have Sastra instead of
fiksi—we may point out that the Parvadhigama mentions many
times that the document consists of the sara, essence, extracted
from adhigama, Sasana and Sstra—it is quite probable that patik
gundala is here not a proper noun, but a common noun, denoting a
document dealing with the rights and duties of particular classes and
with their mutual relations, and chat the Parvadhigama is such a
document; indeed, that allusions are made to the document in the
verse quoted.

Afcer this diversion in connection with our quotation from the
Parvadhigama, we resume our line of argument.

In the quoted passage, then, we learn that a good judge must
have knowledge of the dharmaSistra, the Kutaramanava, Sirasamuccaya,
Canakya and Kamandaka, It is not certain whether dharmaSastra is
acollective name for the documents called after it, or that it has the
same meaning hete as in India. By Kutaraminava is probably meant
a compilation of laws. There are many such compilations, and -one
has been edited and translated by Professor Jonker."* Wee are familiar
with two types of proverb-collections called Sarasamuccaya.’t By
Canakya may be [362] meant the arthaSistra, a treatise on the
conduct of affairs of state, attributed to Kautilya or Canakya. That
this Sanskrit work, or at any rate fragments of it, must have been
known in Java too, appears from the fact that isolated quotations from
it have been found in Old-Javanese literature. Kamandaka immediately
reminds us of collections of fables with a moral: Hooykaas has
examined this genre, and edited and translated one version.’*

16 J,C.G, Jonker, Een Oud-Javaansch wetboek vergeleken met Indische
rechtsbronnen, (An Old Javanese code of law compared with Indian sources of
law.) Leyden 1885,

17 Suppl. Cat. Javaansche en Madoereesche handschriften der Leidsche
Universiteits-Bibliotheck, p, 193.

18 C. Hooykaas, Tantri, de Middel-Javaansche _Paficatantra-bewerking
(Tantei, the Middle-Javanese Paficatantra version) Leyden, 1929,

Idem, Tantri Kamandaka (Bibliotheca Javanica, vol, 2), Bandung, 1931.

Google iN
The Astadatavyavahira in Old Javanese 117

A judge, chen, must in any case have read these books. He
ought, to use a modern image, to have them on his shelf, These
works deepen his legal insight, and chough not of direct practical
application, aid his sense of justice.

What is next said of the judge is of greater importance,’...that
he does not become confused by the difficuly of the contrasts when
he harmonizes (prayoganya) the following two aspects (bélahan),
namely the contents of the cighteen points of litigation and the every-
day customs’.

Ie surely appears from this that in olden times Hindu scholastic
law was adapted as much as possible to practical justice, which adheres
to ‘everyday customs’.

The cighteen points of litigation, called astadaSavyavahara in
Sansktit, are dealt with in che 8th and gth books of Manu. The
fact that in the case of the dharmaSastras we find ourselves in the
field of so-called scholastic law has been demonstrated more than
once.!* Nevertheless, when we find in the inscriptions, particularly
in the records of judicial sentences and in the jayapatras of Bendosari
and of Grésik,?® the clause that the court, besides taking into account
the codal law, the adat law, the precedents and the opinions of the
ancient teachers, also observes the intention of che Kutaramanavadi,
it does not seem mere pomposity, Whatever document is meant by
the Kutaramanavadi, it has in any case something to do with the
Manavadharmasastra.

Icis not surprising that the charters mention this work of Manu,
for they were promulgated by the princely government which, in
contrast to the governing bodies of the desas subordinated to [363]
it, was more Hindu-minded. In the desa the customary law was
100 fer cent valid, but from the charters and the type of document
to which the Pirvadhigama belongs we gain a strong impression that
in the kraton this ada law was adapted as much as possible to

19 C, van Vollenhoven, Het Adatrecht van Nederlandsch-Indie, (Adat law
of the Netherlands Indies) vol. Il, Leyden, 1931, pp. 130-148,
20 In OJO., LXXXV and KO., XVI respectively.

6

Google WV
118 The Astadasavyavabara in Old Javanese

classical Hindu Law. Viewed in this light the words from the
Parvadbigama and the charters, quoted above, become significant.
The charters speak of ‘observing’ (tanggvan), and the Parvadhigama
of tharmonizing with’ or ‘adapting to”. (prayoga), the code of law
from India. The document’s autkor does not pretend that this
‘adapting’ is not coupled with ‘difficulties’ (rusit), and in fact contrasts
(bélah) ‘the everyday customs’ (laukika) and the ‘contents’ or explana-
tion (padirtha) of the agtadafavyavahira.

Ic is this astadagavyavahira pericope which has survived, in MS.
in an Old-Javanese translation ; or at any rate a latge part of it.
This document,2! which is called Svarajambhu, undoubtedly derives
from the eighth book of the Manavadhatmasistra. This is apparent
even froma superficial reading of the text, The atticles are translated
fairly accurately into Old-Javanese. Compare, for instance, the first
article from the Sanskrit original with the Old Javanese translation.

The Manavadharmagastra:

Vyavabatndidrksustu brahmanaih saha parthivah/
Manerajéair mantribhiscaiva vinitah prawiSetsabhiim //

The Old Javanese translation :

Kunang ulaha sang prabhu uninginira tang vyavahata nikang
it, arovanga ta sia. brahmana vibikan mangaji lavan  mantei
ring vruh maviveka, sulaksana athd sira tumamaba ring sabba.

Just as in the Old Javanese patvas, the Brahmandapurina and
several other works translated, ot rather paraphrased, from the Sanskeie,
there is here and there a Sanskrit word or part of a sentence which
was probably deemed sufficiently important by the Javanese author
to be quoted.

For instance atticle 26 ; Akarch inggitab, lakunya ulahnya Sabdanya
vikira ning ulatnya venes ning mukhanya (Kavrubana ika). [364]

21 See Suppl. Cat, vol. Il, pp. 196-198. The manuscript we consulted is
Codex 4530. The astadafavyavahira comprises only a part, albeit the larger
part, of it, containing articles 1-387, that is, almost all the articles.

Google
The Astadasavyavabara in Old Javanese 119

The Sanskrit original reads +
Netravakeravikaraigca grhyate ‘ntargatam manah,

Akareh inggitah is an evident barbarism for the instrumental
akiraic ingitair.

These examples suffice to give the reader an impression of the
translation of paraphrase of the astadaSavyavahira in Old-Javanese,
which as regards the contents differs little from the Sanskrit
original.

The few diffcrences, however, are worth considering.

This Old-Javanese version of the vyavahira section of Manu,
which in our opinion has received less attention than it deserves, has
indeed been mentioned several times in connection with the Sanskrit
Mianavadharmasastea, but no one has made more than a superficial
comparison, ** The striking similarity to Manu’s widely-known
code of law has been noticed, but the differences are more
important.

In the first place there are differences in the Old-Javanese paraphrase
which must doubtless be ascribed to the Javanese author, or rather
authors. We use the plural because it is apparent that after the first
translation of this work of Indian provenance numerous alterations
were made before it finally assumed the form in which we know
it from our manuscript. Adaptations to the customs of different
places and times would not be unlikely. We shall consider one
example more closely.

In Slokas 131-137 of the cighth book of Manu various monetary
matters are discussed. In the Old-Javanese version the same subject
is ereated in the same articles, bur with a conversion of Hindu mone-
taty values into those used in Java. Besides che Sanskrit terms kesnala
dharana, pana, etc., we also find the mi, su and ku abbreviations
known in ancient Java. Also wherever there is question of fines, the
amounts are expressed in che mi, su, ku monetary system, whether ot
not preceded by the amount in panas, which would be in conformity
with che original,

22 For instance, see the above-mentioned work of Jonker (note 16),

Google
120 The Astadasavyavabira in Old Javanese

There are also places where the amounts are given not twice but
[365] three times: first in panas, second in che mi, su, ku monetary
system, and finally, though it rarely occurs, by a large numeral
unaccompanied by a unit.

These three methods by which the sums of money are denoted
represent as many stages of adaptation of the document: firstly,
kesnala, dharana, and pana are coins used in the original Sanskrit text
as it first came into Javanese hands; secondly, ma, su, kuis the custo-
mary monetary system in use in the Old Javanese characters. This
represents the stage at which the work was for the first time adapted
to the environment of ancient Java; thirdly, in more recent Javanese
literature the amounts are usually expressed in large numbers without
mentioning any particular coin, (The code of law’ edited by Prof.
Jonker, for instance, belongs,to this later type.) So we have a repeated
adaptation of the work co suit che Javanese of later times.

Another Javanese element introduced into the otiginal code are
the insertion of Javanese translations after the respective Sanskrie words
or terms, This, then, is how che Javanese scholar asserted himself,
by finding Old Javanese equivalents for important Sanskrit concepts
and technical terms. Besides making a continuous paraphrase of the
whole work, he took care to place equivalents after the technical
terms which he had reason to expect were concepts as yet unknown in
his Javanese environment. In other words, the terms were quoted
and the Javanese equivalents written after them. We immediately
find this method adopted in the enumeration of the cighteen points of
litigation, thé astadagavyavahira.

We give below the enumeration as it occurs in the context in the
fourth to seventh stanza of the eighth book of Maun’s dharmasistra,
and as is quoted and translated in the Old Javanese Svarajambhu. On
comparing the Sanskrit original with the Old Javanese paraphrase, it
is evident that the Javanese author has striven to render the original
text as accurately as possible. We may expect corrupt Sanskrit from in
Old-Javanese text, though the Sanskrit portions were probably origin-
ally much better, and have deteriorated at the hands of successive

copyists. [366]

Google caon
The Astadatavyavabira in Old Javanese 121

Manavadbarmatastra Svarajambbs Suarsjambhw
(Sanskrit quotations) (Translations of quotations)
tesim Wirnya
adyamrsidinam tapimadyamrsadani tan kasahura pihutang
niksepo niksepa tan kavehaning patuvava
*svimi vikrayah asvami vikriya adval tan drvya
sambhiyaca samutthanam sambuyasya tan kaduman ulih ing
samirthaning kinabehan
dattasynapakarma ca dattasyana sakarmmaca _karuddhaning huvus
vinehakén
vetanasyaiva cidinam vetanasyanacadining tan kavehaning upahan
sampvidasca vyatikeamah _samvidagca vyatikramal adva ring samaya
keayavikeayanufayo kcayavikrayaniisiyoh —_alarambéknyain
pamélinya
vivadah svimi pilayoh —_—_vivadah swimi layah__vivada ning pinangvak&n
mvang mangvan
simavividadharmasca kahucapaning vats
pirusye dandavicike varugye danda pacike anda ning sahirsa
vakparusya
steyam ca stheyam pavetti ning maling
sihasam caiva sahasam ulah sahasa
strisamgrahanameva ca sanggrafisna me uvacca__ulah tan yogya ring
aki stei
stripumdharmo
vibhigasca vibhagasca kadumaning devya
dyitam dyuta totohan tan prani
ahvaya ahvinam totohan pragi

Ic is to be noted that the subject stripumdharma is lacking in the
Old Javanese enumeration. A copyist’s negligence ?

Another difference from Manu is thgt in our text the original
‘dyditamahvaya’ (gambling and betting at animal races) has been divi-
ded in two. So in spite of the omission of point 16 (sttipumdharma).
there are still 18 points of litigation.

The procedure of the Javanese author, in this section at any rate, was
probably as follows: he copied Manu’s Sanskeie text literally—a survival
of sandhi is still noticeable—and where he considered it appropriate,
namely after each technical term he inserted the Old Javanese translation,

In this way the original Sanskcit technical terms have been pre-
served. In particular, those which for one reason or another were

Google , jivercny ob uct
122 The Astadatavyavabire in Old Javanese

considered important, have been longest maintained in the manus
cript tradition. These are, as we have already mentioned, the neo-
logisms imported from India, which still sounded strange to the Javanese.
In addition, those expressions which in Sanskrit can be easily com-
pressed into short, clear compounds have often been preserved. An

example is Manu VIII, 291-292. [367]

Manavadbarmasistra Svarajambhu
~ Chinnanasye bhagnayuge Cinditasye pégat kéluhan, bbaganyuge
tiryakpratimukbagete, tikél pasanganya, tiryak ka-iring,

Aksabhaiige ca yanasya
cakrabhanige tathaiva ca

pratimukagate katungkeb, aksabbangge

rempak cakranya, cakrabbangge r8mpak
hulunya,

Chedane caiva yantrinim
yoktraraémyostathaiva ca

cedane cava yantranim pegat tali
réngganya, yogtrarimyeh pgat savEdnya

Akrande capyapehiti na
dandam Manurabravi,

p&gat tali ning kudanya, akrande panguhuh
ning manunggang suminggahaken ta lingnya,

yan mangkana Ivienya pangrempak bandha,
tan dandanika ling bhatica Manu,

Translation

If the nose-ring has come
undone, if the yoke is broken, if
the carriage has made a sideways
or backward move, if the axle of
the carriage or a wheel is broken,

if the traces, the girth of the reins
are broken, or if (the driyer) has
called loudly ‘go. out of the way’,
then (in all chese cases) no punish-
ment shall be inflicted, Manu hath
ordained.

Google

Cinditasye the breaking of the
nose-ring, bhagnayuge the snapp-
ing of che yoke, tiryak the going
aside, pratimukagate the collapsing
(?), akgabbangge the breaking of
the axle,

cedane save yantranam the
breaking of che traces, yogerar-
Smyeb the breaking of the girth,
the breaking of the reins, akrande
the calling of the rider to go out
of the way (ta lingnya is the eran-
slation of the Sansktie iti). If che
above-mentioned cases are the
cause of an accident he (i. ¢., che
dtiver) be not punished. Thus

Bhatita Manu.

The Astadasavyavahira in Old Javanese 123

On compatison with the original, we see that the grammatical
endings of the original Sanskrit sentence have been presetved, and that
the Sanskrit quotations are relatively free from corrption. “We know
of no Old-Javanese MS with such relatively pure Sanskrit quotations.
This exceptional case is a proof that the original adapter of the eighth
book of the ManavadharmaSastra. must have been a good Sanskrit
scholar. One can imagine that in the course of time the Sanskrit terms
have been copied and handed down from manuscript to manuscript by
generations of copyists, who in proportion as they were chronologically
further removed from the first Old-Javanese adapter understood less of
the Sanskrit terms, and corrupted them more and more, finally, it
would seem, to omit them altogether, as for instance in the case of
the part which corresponds with Manu VIII. 125:

Minavadharmatastra Svarajambhu
Upasthamudaram jibva hastau Lvienya upastha, vétang, _ilat,
pidau ca paiicamam, | Caksurnisi ca tangan, suku, mata, talinga, irung
karnauca| dhanam dehastathaiva ca payu, avak nahan svarna (read
sthina) ning sapuluk kvehnya.
About the translation there is little to be said, The ten ‘objects
upon which punishment can be inflicted” have been correctly translated
into Javanese. The Sanskrit upastha(x) is left untranslated, Nate

that dhana (9) has been translated by payu, which means saleable, and
has thus acquired the meaning of saleable goods and chattels, i.e., pro-

perty, riches. Note also that in the enumeration in the Old Javanese

text irung (Sanskrit nisi) comes after talinga (Sanskrit karnau); the
reverse of Manu,

Now that we have become acquainted with the Manavadharma-
Sastea as a paraphrase of the vyavahira section of Manu's Sanskrit
work, in which occasionally Javanese equivalents have been inserted
of translations been given for particular Sanskrit terms or expressions,
it must be noted that the unknown Javanese paraphraser and, at the
same time, translator, also acted as commentator. Proceeding in the
same way as his Indian colleagues in explaining words and passages
that were not immediately intelligible. he adds a commentary after the
part of the text to be explained.

Google 7
124 The Astadasavyavabira in Old Javanese

This is how loka 209, for instance, has been dealt with. The
Sanskrit reads:
Ratham hareta cddhvaryurbrhamadhane ca vajinam/,

Hota vapi haredaSvamudgicd capyanah kraye//

The translation:

The adhvaryu must take the carriage, the brahman for lighting
the fire [must take] a horse, the hotar [must take] a riding or draught
animal, che udgitar [must take] the care used for buying (the soma).

The Old-Javanese paraphrase has, as we shall see, a few deviations.
Ie is not certain whether they are to be ascribed to the inability of the
Javanese adapter, ot were made deliberately.

Sang adhvaryuh angalapa daksina ratha, sang brahmana angalapa
daksina liman, sang hota angalapa daksina kuda, sang udgata angalapa
ratha kuda liman.

This is the Old Javanese text, immediatley followed by the expla-
nation which is not be found in the original.

Sang brahmana mangaji yajuh veda, advaryuh ngaranira ; sang
mangaji artha pvana (?) brahmana ngaranira; sang mangaji rg veda,
sang hota ngaranica ; sang mangaji sima veda, sang udgata ngaranica.
Mangkana krama ning yajéia.

The translation of the Old Javanese passage and the commentary
is as follows:

Let the adhvaryu take a cattiage as his priest's fee, let the brahman
take an elephant as his priest’s fee, let the hotar take a horse as his
priest’s fee, let the udgitar take carriage, horse and elephant.

The brahman who recites the yajurveda is called adhvaryu, who
leads the whole sactificial proceedings is called brahman, who recites
the rgveda is called hotar, who recites the simaveda is called udgatar.
This is the course of events at sacrifices.

‘As we see this ‘explanation’ is correct ; the four sacrificial offi
ciants named do indeed each have to fulfil the duties mentioned in it.

Thete is one case of a Sanskrit Sloka which has been neither eran-

slated nor explained, namely, Manu VIII, 86;

Google 4
The Astadasavyavabira in Old Javanese 125

Manavadbarmasastra Svarajambbu
Dyaur bhimirapo brdayam © Ana sang hyang  tigavélas
candrackdgniyamanilah|| ratrih sam- kumaveuh iriya: dbyob bbimira-
dhye ca dharmagca vettajfiah sarva- poh candrarkagniyamaniling batri

debinim dvi sandyodbamasca prathajnab
sarva debinam
Translation
Heaven, the earth, the waters, The most sacred Thirteen

the heart, the moon, the sun, fire, know them: heaven, the earth,

Yama, the wind, the night, the che waters, che moon, the sun, fire,

two twilights, and ‘dharma’ know Yama, the wind, the night, the

the actions of all creatures. two twilights and ‘dharma’ know
the actions of all creatures.

[370] Ie should be noted that the Javanese adapter begins,
redundantly, to mention in Old Javanese: ‘Ana sang hyang tigavélas
Kurnavrub iriya,’ redundantly, because the Sanskrit Sloka says the same
at the end in different words. Ignorance on the part of the original
Javanese author ? Or an addition which has crept in later?*

Although there is an enumeration in this 86th Sloka, and such
enumerations, as we have shown above by several examples, are usually
translated seriatim, whether preceded by the Sanskrie original or not,
the Javanese author has nevertheless copied this Sloka in its entirety,
probably for the following reason,

The sacred ‘thirteen witnesses’ were not unknown in Java, They can
beagain found in some Old-Javanese characters", in the same order and
in the same Sloka. This Sloka then, did not sound wholly new to the
Javanese adapter of the MianavadharmaSistra—and not only to him
but also to everyone who was engaged in the juristic literature and

related matters, That is probably why this stanza was left untran-
slated.

‘That the éloka must have been known appears from the fact, men-
23 The text is corrupt. Hrdaya (the heart) has dropped out, Note that

dvi has been superadded to the dual samdhye (corruptly sandyo).
24 Sce Krom, De inscriptie van Nglawang, TBG., 53. 1951, pp, 414-5.

7
Google
126 The Astadasavyavabira in Old Javanese

tioned above, thac it occurs in some Old-Javanese charters. Professor
Kern thought that the thirty, tridasa, gods were really meant by those
thirteen, trayodaéa whereas Professor Krom quotes a passage from the
Paficatantra (1, 182) in which there is indeed a question of thirty
witnesses, who do not, however, quite correspond to those invoked in
this charter, but the passage itself agrees literally with this stanza from
the Manavadharmasistra. O. J. O. LXXIX, 6, 7-78, 2, however, is
the same as the passage from the Paficatancra.

With the above examples we have tried to give an impression of
what, on pages 119 and 120, we called the Javanese element in the
Javanese paraphrase of Manu.

After only a cursory examination of the text, however, other
deviations are noticed which are certainly not of Javanese origin. In
order to investigate their origin, it is necessary in the first place to
account for the way in which the ManavadharmaSastra came to be so
widely [371] current in India, As the reader probably knows four
stages can be distinguished in the study of Hindu jurisprudence,
According to Brahman doctrine the Veda is the source of all the sacred
sciences, and therefore also of the sacted ‘dharma’, However that may
be, the oldest works in which collections of laws occur—mosely still
written in prose—are usually called dharmasitra, ie., dharma rules.
Specialization of these gave rise to the dharmasistras or smmtis (sacred
traditions). These smetis, of which Manu’s has become the most
famous, ate written in verse and contain collections of laws. The word
law is to be understood in the widest possible sense. Because the content
of these works is not infrequently susceptible of different interpretations,
commentaries arose. This was the beginning of the third stage of
Indian jurisprudence. The fourth stage is that of the dharmanibandhas
—works on dharma (lit. dharma-compilations)—which came into
existence approximately in the eleventh century and are still being
written, These four stages do not follow chronologically, There are
smatis of very recent times, whereas on the other hand old comment-

aries also exi The dharmanibandhas, in contrast to the dharma-

Sasteas, did not originate in the various dharma schools, but were
generally compiled by jurists at royal command.

Google
The Astadasavyavabira in Old Javanese 127

Ic is understandable char the commentaries as a whole belong to the
stage before that of the dharmanibandhas, which is logical since the
former (the commentaries) were written at atime when the dharma-
Sastras were not immediately and generally understood, whereas it was
a systematic study of these commentaries that gave rise to the dharma-
nibandhas.

We must mention one important fact. It is known that students
of jurisprudence in India did not generally consule the actual smrtis,
but were content with che commentaries on them.*

Te may be inferred that this method of working was also employed
by the Javanese students of the sciences, and in particular of jurispru-
dence. As in India,** it was the rulers [372] who commissioned the
compilations of codes of law in Java. On page [361] we saw that
there is question of such a commission in the Nagarakgtgama. A
code of law is also ascribed to Kgtanagara,t hat is co say, it is supposed
to have been made under his auspices.”

In the light of the above, it appears possible that in our text the
Javanese adaptation too is based on an Indian commentary, ot nibandha,
ot should I say, chat in the paraphrase of the ManavadharmaSistra we
shall come across the influence of Indian commentators.

We have indeed found deviations which ate not of Javanese origin
and which lead us at once to suspect that we have to do with a
commentary. For instance, the frequently recurring words “(mangkana)
ling sang pandita’ in places where no such mention can be found in
Manu. Again, the subdivision into 18 points of litigation; we have
in our Old Javanese text where according to Manu Sloka 26 ends
‘Ici dharma carita’, after Sloka 29 ‘iti strisatyasaraksana’ and so on.2*

25 A comprehensive work on Indian dharma literature is J. Jolly, Recht und
Sitte (Grundrisz der indo-arischen Philologie und Altertumskunde),

26 See for instance: }. Jolly, Outlines ‘of an history of the Hindu law of
partition, inheritance and adoption. Calcutta, 1885, pp. 6-8.

27 Pigeaud, De Tantu Pangg8laran, pp. 291-3.

CE, Krom, Hindoe-Javaansche Geschiedenis, p. 340.

28 These are the titles of the subdivisions as they appear in the Old-
Javanese text: Iti dharma carita. Iti strisatya saraksana. Iti maryada carita,
Iti r&pa carita Iti siksi caritadi, Iti cara carita. Iti niksepa carita, Iti

Google
128 The Astadasavyevabira in Old Javanese

With probably one exception™® these titles of the subdivisions are in
Sanskrit, which leads us to suspece that they must have already existed
in the Sanskrit original used by the Javanese adapter. Otherwise he
would surely have used Old Javanese. The exceptional case merely
shows that we are dealing with translations. Unfortunately we have
been unable to find out which Indian adaptation of Manu has these
peculiarities.

‘We are mote fortunate in regard to Sloka 169 of Manu. In Manu
we read: Trayah pararthe kligyanti saksinah pratibhih kulam...which
may be translated as, ‘Three have to suffer for others: witnesses,
sureties and judges...’

Kula is, according to all cbe commentaries known to us. [373]
translated by judges. Only the commentators Sarvajéia Narayana and
Nandana take this word in the meaning of celatives, that is, in con-
text, the relatives of a deceased debtor. What is remarkable is chat
this part of the Sloka has been translated into Old-Javanese as
follows: Tau Ivir nikang sakitaning pardrtba, ndya ta ya: Saksi,
(sang) mangaku hutang, (sang) vékasaning abucang. Vékesaning
abuteng literally means ‘Those (One) left behind by a debtor.”
Our Old Javanese vext, then, follows one or both of the above
commentators.

A similar case occurs in Sloka 156. According to all the com-
mentators known to us, the word cakravrddbi, which occurs here, must
be translated by ‘an agreement to convey goods by carriage.’ The
Old-Javanese text, however, gives a paraphrase of this word which
again agrees with Narayana and Nandana: compound interest. The
Javanese text is: Ana vang mafakraveddhihakén  pihutangay:
This sentence cannot be translated otherwise than: (If) there is some-
one who has his claims of debe at compound interest...»

aswami carita. Iti datanama carita. Iti kraya vikraya catita. Iti sima_carita.
Ici vakparusya carita, Iti strisang grahana carita.

2g Namely, at the beginning of the part which deals with acts of violence.
There we read: kang dosa sthasa salvicanya varahakénangku, mangkana
pvaya ..Thatis: The acts of violence shall be recorded by me, thus......

Google
The Astadasavyavabira in Old Javanese 129

On the other hand there are cases where one or both of the com-
mentators have an exclusive explanation which is not followed by the
Old Javanese text,

Te may be concluded from this that the Javanese adapter must have
had before him a Sanskrit Manavadharmaéastra provided with Nara-
yana’s or Nandana’s commentary and has drawn from this what in
bis own opinion scemed correct, Or else he consulted another com-
mentary—of which we know nothing—which would be a sort of in-
termediate form between Narayana and Nandana.

But that is not all!

As we look closer, other strange deviations seem to be lurking in
the text, These differences from the Sanskrit text of Manu are the
corrupted verse fragments which occur several times in our document,
interspersed with Old Javanese explanatory words. At first we were
unable to trace the origin of these and thought we were dealing with
survivals of unknown commentaries or nibandhas—until we consulted
Mandlik’s edition of ‘the ManavadharmaSastra.*® Besides the six
best-known commentaries, several unknown versions of the code ate
printed in it. [374] These versions differ from the generally current
text in this respect, namely that in several places—in the mettical
parts as well—there are interpolations.

In the introduction Mandlik gives the provenance of the manus-
cripts (and printed editions) which contain these interpolations. We
would like to emphasize that they are not arranged under the com-
mentaries (fi, vetti, vivarana, etc.), but belong to different original
versions («iila). Some of these interpolations, in corrupted form, recur
in our Old-Javanese document.

30 Manava-dharma Ststra with the commentaries of Medhfitithi,
Sarvajfianarayana, Kallika, Raghavananda, Nandana and Ramachandra and an
appendix by the Honorable Rao Saheb Vishvanath Narayan Mandlik. Bombay
1886,

Google
130 The Astadasavyavahira in Old Javanese

Two examples:
Interpolations in the Interpolations in the
Manavadbarmasastra Old Javanese text.

Between Slokas 3 and 4.

Himsamyah kurute Ingsiya kurute kascit, ana vvang
kaSciddeyamva na mamatyani nirdosa kunang

prayacchati, deyamva na prayasciti.tan pavelvitiki-ng
Sthane te dve yogya vehakéna aveh irikang tan yogya
vivadasya bhin- vehakénanya kunang. Sthane te dve viva-
nostidaSadha dasya ya ika sthana ning vyavahara evang
punah, siki malanya bhinestedaSada punah

mat&mahan ta ya valu vélas wkasan.

Between Sloka 265 and 266

Dhvajini matsini Vvajini_ sima katandan, matsya nita sima
caiva nidhani ngaturakén ivak, nedani sima kudur, bbaya-
bhayavarjic: varjita sima svatantra, rajasdsana — sima
RajaSdsananita ca lukayanan paruja abi kunang lima kveh ing
sima paficavidhd sima kavruhakna,

smetah

The most superficial comparison shows obvious similarities, in
spite of the very corrupt condition of the Old Javanese text. We
have chosen these examples because the Sanskrie fragments in the Old-
Javanese text leave no doubt as to the origin of the interpolations.
Similar passages, also derived from the same sort of interpolations
in Manu, can be quoted from our text, where, however, the Sanskrit
has entirely disappeared and been replaced by an Old-Javanese
translation, It is noteworthy, [375] however, that the Javanese author
has added; mangkana ling sang hyang agama, thus the words of the
most sacred agama;"* or: mangkana pagth ning pavarah sang hyang
dharma,*? thus it is decreed by the teaching of the most sacred dharma;
or: ita (cead iti) kojar ing Sastra,°* this is che teaching according to
the Sistra,

31 An interpolation between Slokas 269 and 270,
32 Between 350 and 351,
33 Between 385 and 386,

Google cece
The Astadatavyavabira in Old Javanese 131

Finally we shall retrace che phases through which the original
Sanskrit vyavahira section of Manu has gone before assuming the form
in which we now know it, an Old-Javanese paraphrase.

We consider it impossible that the Javanese adapter had a text
before him which consisted only of Slokas from Manu, something
similar to Jolly’s edition of the Manavadharmasistra, From what
we have seen above, it appears that at least one of the two commen-
taties, Sarvajfia Narayana’s or Nandana’s, or a thicd, unknown
commentary,” which contains something of both, had already been
added to the document or at any rate was also consulted by the
Javanese adapter and incorporated into his paraphrase. Since the
former commentator is older than the latter’ who in all probability
knew Nardyana’s Manvarthavivgti®*, and as it is known of
Narayana that he lived somewhat earlier than the middle of che
fourteenth century, our Old-Javanese text cannot, in any case, have
originated earlier. Unless ic is che hypothetical unknown thied,
which would then be older than Narayana.

Te is not known when Nandana lived. Biihler says of him: “As
his name is not quoted in any commentary on Manu ot in any work
in law, known to me, it would seem that he is either of very
modern date or that his opinions were not held in any great
esteem’®*,

This negative remark does not alter the fact that the Old-
Javanese astadaSavyavahira text, as appears from the above-mentioned
factors, must have come into existence in Majapahit’s period of
prosperity, which is not contradictory to the assumption that
Nirayana’s commentary played a role in the composition of [376]
that text. Besides, Narayana wrote his commentary *towards the
middle of the fourteenth century, the era of Majapahit’s greatness,
during which che Nagarakrtigama, one of many literary works, was

34 Georg Bithler, The Laws of Manu translated (Sacred Books of the East)
Oxford 1886, pp. CXXVIII-CXXX and CXXXIII-CXXXV,

35. Ibidem p. CXXXIV.

36 Ibidem p. CXXXIII, Cf. V.S, Sukthankar, Epic studies. V. Notes on
Mahabharata Commentators, Annals of the Bhandarkar Oriental Research
Institue, 17, 1935-6, pp. 188-9.

Google son
132 The Astadasavyavabara in Old Javanese

written, In this poem mention is made several times of the lively
scientific intercourse which existed at that time between India and
Java"?
from the mother country, who was gaining himself a name, founded

a school, or at any rate was speedily recognised in Majapahie for his

In our opinion it is very likely that a contemporary jurist

scientific work. Unfortunately we cannot yet profit directly from the
knowledge just gained, thae those versions of the Minavadharmasistra
which contain the above-mentioned interpolations also had their
influence on the composition of the Old-Javanese paraphrase, In our
opinion, the account taken of these peculiar interpolations is in indirect
ratio to the thoroughness of the investigation of the commentaries, and
the success with which they have been related to the study of dharma
literature, Yet these interpolations, like the dharmanibandhas, would
play no small part in increasing our knowledge of the dharmaSéstras,
their significance in jurisprudence and their place in literature;
certainly also in connection with the study of these sciences in ancient
Java, The provenance and date of these interpolations might for
instance afford a clue to the determination of the date and the setting
of Hindu-Javanese literature, which, as is now apparent, was influenced
by them.

Te remains to conclude that a jurist or liteérateur in the heyday of
Majapahie studied a Sanskrit text of Manu, provided with one or two
commentaries—among which was probably Sarvajéia_Nériyana's
Manvarthaviveti—and the interpolations of unknown origin, studied
them and made of these an Old Javanese paraphrase intelligible in his
eavironment. To this end, as we have seen, he himself frequently
acted as commentator.

A critical edition, accompanied by a translation of this Old
Javanese paraphrase of the vyavahira section of the Manavadharma-
astra, when compared with the relevant Sanskrit dharma literature in
existence, would certainly give surprising results.

37 Nagaraketagama, Canto 83. 2 and 3; Canto 93.1.

Google
Deputation of Ambassadors as depicted in the
Kharosthi Documents from Chinese Turkestan*

By Ratna CHANDRA AGRAWALA

The discovery of about 782 Kharosthi documents in Chinese
Turkestan has enabled us to have a lot of information about the
administrative system of the Shan-Shan kingdom during the early
centuries of the Christian era, It is now proposed to study the
problem relating to the deputation of ambassadors by the rulers of the
contemporary kingdom of Shan-Shan, which lay to the east of Khotan.
We learn from several documents chat there was frequent despatch of
embassies to the sister states (nos. 5,14, 22, 214, 135, 248, 251, 361,
362 etc.) and mainly to Khotan® (nos. 14, 22, 214, 223, 248, 367).

The existing documents refer to the words dutiya or duta for an
‘ambassador’ (=Skt, data). They were deputed to discharge urgent
matters of the state (cf. mahamta rajaka-karyena Khotarmnammi
gémdavo, no. 248 ; rajakicasa karamna, NO. 214..,.4.€tc.) and also
to maintain relations of goodwill wich other countries and states.

* Abbreviations Used :—

No. of Kl=Kbarostbi Inscriptions discovered by Sir A. Stein in
Chinese Turkestan, parts I, Il, IIL Text only, 1929,
Oxford.

Trans, =, Burrow, A Translation of the Kharogthi Documents
from Chinese Turkestan, 1940, London,

Language =T, Burcow, The Language of the Kharosthi Documents
from Chinese Turkestan, 1937, Cambridge.

BSOS =Bulletin of the School of Oriental and African Studies,
University of London,
AO =Acta Orientalia.

1 Found at Niya, Endere and Loulan, They were excavated by
A, Stein about 50 years ago, These records have been edited in three volumes
of KI and also in BSOS, IX, pp. Ill—25, The language of these documents
is Prakrt,

2 Khotamna of the documents. Sometimes two persons used to go on
mission together (nos.-22, 135).

8
Google eR
134 Deputation of Ambassadors as depicted in Kbarosthi Documents

There seems tobe hardly any reference to political negotiations,
treaties or pacts between the two states and that too through their
respective ambassadors or rulers. At the same time it is learnt quite
frequently, that the ruler of the Shan-Shan kingdom was in the
habit of sending envoys and missions to Khotan, perhaps with a
view to maintain cordial relations with the Khotanese king. As a
matter of fact, the impending attacks of the Supiyas* and the
chaotic conditions of the times demanded peaceful contacts with
Khotan which lay quite close to Shan-Shan territory.

The ambassadors or royal messangers were appointed by their
rulers and as such, it was quite natural that they acted in accordance
with the instructions‘ and orders of their masters. It is also learnt
that all arrangements of their journey and safe attival at their destina-
tion were made by their own state. It was rather the bounden duty
of the governors of the realm to accord every possible help and
facility on their way. The conditions of a desert country like Chinese
Turkestan and that too when it was being overawed by the marauding
activities of che Supiyas, really demanded such arrangements as may be
noted below.

(0) Supply of Provisions: -—
Ie included timely supply of food and drink (pacevari, no. 22)
including fodder* for che animals accompanying them. This expendi-

3 Hostile people who were always engaged in marauding activities, For
details consult Language, p. 1313 AO, XIL, pp. 54-5; BSOS, X p. 375......0te
Ie appears that they perhaps belonged to the Hiung-nu stock of the Central
Asian Tribes,

4 CE. the phrase rayakavyavabira in no, 367, interpreted as “royal
business” in AO, XII, pp. 51-2. In this record, the person deputed is not
designated as a dita but since he is to be provided with state camels and guards
on his way to the other kingdom, he must have been deputed for some urgent
state work, Sometimes persons going on speedy business (ighra karyena,
no, 306) were also awarded similar facilities, These people thus appear to have
belonged to the Foreign Department of the State of Shan-Shan though there
is no specific reference to this fact,

5 Cf gata wtaga in no. 135. For details consult my paper in the
Journal of Oriental Institute, Baroda, 1V (4), pp. 338-49.

Google INIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
Deputation of Ambassadors as depicted in Kharosthi Documents 135

ture was incurred out of state funds for the work (cf. yatha
parviga dutana rajade sammana cimdidaga tena vidbanena abono ede
in no, 22). This system was being followed in a traditional manner.*
The existing documents of course fail to chrow any light on the
treatment meted out to these envoys at the hands of the foreign
states. Still more, there is absolutely no reference to the arrangements
when they were on their return journey to their respective places in
the kingdom of Shan-Shan. In this connection mention may also be
made of the treatment accorded to the Hun and Chinese envoys as
early as the first century B. C. According to the information recorded
by W. M. Mcgovern [Early Empires of Central Asia, Chapel Hill,
1939, p- 163], “When a Hunnish envoy arrived at the capital of
any of the various kingdoms of contemporary Turkestan, the local
ruler would provide him with provisions and means of transport free
of cost but when a Chinese agent appeared on the scene, he was
expected to pay liberally for any provision or transport—animals he
happened to require.” It appears that che Hun-envoys were cordially
treated in order to please their chiefs and also to avoid their ruthless
activities ie., invasion and plunder.

(6) Supply of Guards and Animals: —

The documents refer to a number of milicary-stations? on the way
to Khotan ise. Calmadana (Chinese Cu-no or Carcan site), Saca
(Endere site) and Cadota (Cing-cueh of the Chinese, or Niya site).
Guards (valags, no. 14) and animals (nos. 64, 367) were given to
the envoys en route, Sometimes ic so happened that an envoy,
destined to go to Khotan, could not be provided with a valage with
the result that ie was ordered by the king (no. 14) that “the wages
of a guard be paid to him, complete, with interest or an extra sum
to make up for his own expense and trouble” [cf. Language, p. 77)-
Ic is also gathered from document no, 367 that 2 camels and one

6 The Tibetan Documents from Chinese Turkestan too bear testimony to
4 somewhat similar state of affairs at a later stage; cf. JRAS, London, 1934,
PP. 457, 461; ibid, 1927, pp. 219-20.

7 Cf.no. 14.

Google
136 Deputation of Ambassadors as depicted in Kbarosthi Documents

guard from Saca were to conduct an envoy as far as the frontiers of the
other military station and one horse and one guard fit for action
were to lead him from Cadota to the destination ie. Khotan (no. 3673
cf, no. 306) Thus animals and guards were relieved of the troubles
of a continuous journey right from the starting station to the
destination. Both men and animals were changed at the respective
military stations, an arrangement which was quite humane and at the
same time went a long way in increasing the efficiency of the
work.

Sometimes it so happened that a gift of some horses was to be
made for the ruler of Khotan, The horses to be presented, were
provided with fodder etc., by the provincial governors of Cadota and
Saca (ie. edasa amsasa Sacade Cadodade parivanae dadavo, no. 214).
The safe arrival of these animals in Khotan were earnestly sought for
by the ruler of Shan-Shan kingdom.

The guards employed for the aforesaid work, were expected to be
quite active and serviceable (no. 367). Such persons were also
required to accompany the nominees on speedy business (nos. 135,
306).

Te appears that the guards, deputed for the work, also
acted as guides for the journey. In this context mention may be
made of the word arivaga® which has been interpreted to mean a
‘guide’. These arivagas, in Chinese Turkestan, were hereditary and
used to keep their own animals. Still more, chey were expected to go
on their own animals (i.e. arivagasa tanu storena gamdavo, no. 135)
and also led the ambassadors during their march to the destination (cf.
anupurvena gamdavo siyati), Ic is of course not noted in the documents
whether they were provided with any ammunition’® during this period.
The keepers of camels too could accompany the envoys to their
destination (no. 253). In the absence of state-supply of men and

8 Ie. atbovaga=Skt. arthopaka; AO XIX, p. 72; cf. ibid, XII and
Language, p. 73.

9 In nos. 22, 135, 253, ...ete, For this phrase consult Language, pp. 76*7 ;
JRAS, London, 1934, p. 102 where F. W. Thomas identifies it with rman-rogs
or rta-rogs of the Tibetan documents from the same region.

10 To avert the attack of looters and enemies,

Google
Deputation of Ambassadors as depicted in Kbarosthi Documents 137

animals for the envoys, the lateer were fully authorised to hire guides
(no. 14) as well as private animals (no, 223) and the hite-charges"®
thereof were paid out of the government purse. Sometimes they were
awarded an extra amount i.e. something in excess’? over the actual
expenses incurred by the particular envoy (parikreya tena vidhanena
sadba ayogena dadavo, no. 14).

It is all the more interesting co note that an envoy-designate to
Khotan, took his family members to Cadota, perhaps with a view to
take them to Khotan. But the Governor of Cadota received immediate
instructions to detain the family of that ambassador at Cadota itself.
The royal order also made it clear that during the period of hisabsence
from his county, his family was to be duly looked after by the Governor
of Cadota (atra eva caddotammi vithavidavya tabi rajadbaragasa
jbenigasa botu, ma imei paribbava bhavisyati avasa lamcaga parivali-
davya in no. 362). Thus the particular envoy was not in a position to
take his family to Khotan with him, The reason of this arrange-
ment has not been mentioned in that record. It is very likely chat
such an order was issued to save the relations of the ambassador from
the strenuous journey and the frequent invasions of the Supiya tribe.

This is a brief account of the appointment and deputation of
ambassadors and envoys as gleaned from the Kharosthi documents
from Chinese Turkestan.

11 ies, Parikreya.

12 Resembling, to some extent, the incidental charges allowed to a present
day Indian government servant in addition to the actual fare of the journey
performed by him.

Google
Editorial Notes
Bulletin de V’ Ecole Frangaise d’Extréme Orient

Vol. XLVIIL, Part I (1956)

M. Soymié: Le Lo-feow chan; étude de géograpbie religieuse.
Ic is a long article with three illustrations of the mountain and an
Index, covering 141 pages of the Bulletin including 3 appendices.

The topics dealt with in the article are,—

Introduction—Description—La légende—La Grotte-ciel—Le Soleil
de minuit—La vie religieuse au Lo-feou chan—Appendice I: La
généalogie de l’or et du cinabre—Appendice II: Les autres Lo-feuo
chan—Bibliographie—Index— Illustrations : Le Tch’ong-hiu kouan et le
site de la grotte-ciel—Le Pic du chignon double—Carte générale du
Lo-feuo chan.

The writer of che paper has studied several texts (vide the Biblio-
graphy) and critically examined che traditions relating to the two
united mountains Lo and Feou. Some of his observations are as
follows: —

He writes tha in the general geography of China a large part is
devoted to the description of rivers and mountains. There are in
China big as well as very small mountains. Unlike western works on
ancient geography, the Chinese geographers relied more on traditions
than on actual facts and thei aim also was different from that of the
Western geographers. The Chinese geographers has three aspects:
(i) Practical as a guide to travellers; (ii) Pseudo-scientific, e. g.,
and
(ii) Religious—a mountain as the seat of magical powers, The writer
has taken up the study of Lo-feou mountain, which is situated about
80 km., east of Canton. There are, he writes, objective descriptions

influence of a mountain over the country and its people

of the twin mountains, which are not reliable, as also traditional
descriptions found in monographs and in the accounts of the Chinese
travellers but in these the actual and the imaginary are mixed up.

Google enon
Editorial Notes 139

The accounts are numerous and varied, and offer only a partial view
of the mountain. Of these the more coherent is the Lo-feow chan
i, an illustrated guide to Lo-feou chan. It is ateri-
buted to a Taoist priest called Tseou Che tcheng (13th century). Ie
has a commentary of a posterior date, On the basis of this guide,

the writer gives the size of the mountain and an account of the sites

tebe-tchang t'ow-

sanctified by temples, Buddhist monasteries, caves and resorts of
meditating monks, etc.

The legend relating to the mountain is as follows: —Two moun-
tains Lo and Feou are believed to have been united into one. The
Chinese word “Feou” means “float, floating”. Ic is represented as
floating on the surface of water like an iceberg. In an almanac Feou
chan, half of Lo-feou chan is shown as a floating mountain. Mount
Feou is on the east of the mountain Lo. It is a small mount
which came floating from Peng lai, over the sea to be united to
Mountain Lo.

The writer has discussed the general theory about floating moun-
tains (pp. 51-62) and in particular of Lo-feou chan (pp. 62-68) and
summarises the traditions and his observations under the sub-headings:
(a) The two mountains Lo and Feou are united; (b) the two mountains
are nevertheless distinct; (c) the juxtaposition of che two mountains
is believed to be a sexual union; (d) the mount Feou is attached to
Mount Lo ot the floating mountain is fixed; (¢) the floating mountain
determines the country; (f) Lo-feou and Po-lo, and (g) a couple or a
triad.

In discussing the origin of Lo-feou, the writer remarks that unlike
the mount Feou of the Lo-feou chan, most of tho floating
mountains are placed at the spot where they are actually found.
The oating mountains, of which the bottoms are in water, are sup-
posed to be emerging out of water and their heights above the water
line appear to be perpetually rising. At the time of inundations, the
mountains or the islands in the river appear detached and this gives
rise to the notion of floating and drifting mountains.

Mount Feou is believed co have come from Peng lai, one of the
three or five islands of the immortals, A very important text on the
islands of immortals is very old. There is another legend which tells

Google
140 Editorial Notes

us that the mount Feou comes of Kouei-ki, which is an actual mountain
and is well known geographically.

The mountain Lo-feou is believed to have a heavenly cavern (grotto)
ot palace underneath the earth with subterranean communications
through tunnels with other similar subterranean places. The best and
the oldest account has been furnished by Tong-t'ing (grotto and
heaven) of a heavenly place. This has been deale with by Chavannes

in a chapter of his ‘Jet des dragons’.

The Tchew Kao telates the adventure of a Taoist, who visited the
grotto of the Tong-t’ing, a hidden paradise. The belief that the
grotto is a paradise is due to the face that common people cannot see
it of notice it when passing by it. The heavenly grotto of Lo-feou
chan is called Tchou-ming-tong situated behind the temple Tch’ong-
hui kouan, The Tavists regard Lo-feou chan as highly sacred, parti-
culatly, because it conceals the heavenly grotto, the land of happiness.
There ate subterranean communications of this grotto with the other
grottoes located in the famous mountains.

In the Gwide, mentioned above, appears the legend of the mid-
night Sun seen at Lo-feou chan rising out of the sea, ot according to
another tradition, out of the fleeting clouds, The distance between
the peak and the sea wherefrom the Sun tises is about 250 km.
The peak usually remains covered with clouds and the current belief
is that the rising of the Sun can only be seen from the top of the
mountain. The rising of the midnight Sun is one of the oldest
themes of the Chinese mythology and is well known to several writers
who refer to it in their works.

The rising of the Sun, it is said, is announced by the crowing of
a celestial cock. This belief fits in with the ancient mythology accor-
ding to which the solar animal is a bied, a crow, ot more precisely,
acrow with three fect. The crow is replaced here by a cock which
is the solar bird according to the tradition of this country. Ina
Sanskrit work (etanslated into Chinese) there is the tradition thae in
the palace of the Sun there is a tree upon which perches a king-cock
and that when it crows, all the cocks of the world crow. When the
celestial cock is in the sky, its crowing sound is clear and prolonged
and coincides with the rising of the Sun out of the bosom of the blue

Google
Editorial Notas 141

sky. The rising Sun appeats at the horizon like a wheel of fire for
which there is the myth of the chariot of the Sun.

Commenting on the religious life at Lo-feou chan, the writer remarks
that che guardian deities of the mountain are classified into three
categories: (i) individual saints reverting to an organised orders
(ii) uncultured local men; (iii) saints mentioned in anecdotes and
heavenly animals, The majority of the individual patron saints and
the more respected are the Taoists or che Immortals. The other
saints are Buddhists. The uncultured people are the servitors of saints.
There ate many traditions about thei magical powers and activities.
Of the heavenly animals, the notable are tigers which are regarded as the
protectors of the mountain and also serve as the companions of saints.
There ate also legendary accounts of a cavern of sheep, ‘thinoceros
or water bulls, geese and white bieds. There are also cults, Taoist
and Buddhist, for the benefit of che imperial administration as also of
individuals and the common mass.

A-M, Esnoul: Le courant affectif 4 Vintérieur du Brabmanisme
ancien, pp. 141-207.

This is along paper coveting 67 pages and its contents ate as

follows: —

Introduction —Traits généraux de la Bhakti—L’évolution historique:
(A) La secte des Bhagavata et la Bhagavad-giti—(B) Evolution
bipartite des cultes de dévotion aprés la Bhagavad-giti—(C) Quelques
noms marquints des cultes de Bhakti—Conclusion—Bibliographie.

The writer introduces his paper by stating that the Veda, regarded
as the revealed text, is the oldese literature of India. Its hymns are
essentially religious and represented Indian thoughts for centuries.
These ate semi-symbolic and semi-magical and give no place to

emotion.

Muchlaterin the philosophic period, appeared the conception of the
unique reality seen from different angles, ¢.g.,on the one hand, intellectual,
on the other, very vague mystical love, which was however opposed to
the basic view of the Vedanta. In this sometimes, if closely observed,
is moticed the continuity of the current of Indian religious chought.
This current, although of a multiform nature, takes, above all, the
name of Bhakti which may be traced in Buddhism as also in Brahma-

? Google
142 Editorial Notes

nism, In the latter it is very deep-seated and the writer proposes to
define it in this paper.

Bhakti or the cult of devotion appeared in Indian literature under its
actual name and form towards the 3¢d and and century B.C, Speak-
ing intellectually though Bbskti appears to be inferior, it docs re-
present a permanent human inclination—a necessity for a devotee to
attach himself through faith and devotion to the absolute reality which
is beyond his reach but at the same time interests him very much,

The scope of bhekti is extensive and is a complex subject of
study. In Brahmanism it has been clothed in different forms and it
has appeared at different times and in conditions, and in such diverse
forms that one cannot think of exhausting the subject. For acquiring
alittle clear knowledge it is convenient to study at first che general
features. The Bhagavadgita is the principal authority for the evolu-
tion of che Bhagavata, if we put aside many sects which appeared
later in India up to the 17th century, After this period, the cule of
bhakti continued to prosper bue the principal texts belonged to an
earlier petiod.

The writer first takes up the general features of Bhakti discussing the
etymological meanings of the words Bhagavad and Bhakti. He says
that the root bbaj which has come to mean ‘“‘to adore” had
earlier meant ‘to distribute” and ‘to share.” The ‘idea of
sharing” with the Lord is very ancient and goes back to the Veda.
The divine generosity makes a man participate in the share of gods.
He discusses the Vedic use of bbaga” and “‘bbakta” and traces the
sense of “bhakti” in Vedism and early Brahmanism as also in the
Chandogya Upanisad.

In the Bhaktisistre, Narada defines bbekti as ‘the form of an
intense love for Bhagavat”. This sentiment can only develop on the
assumption of two terms: the Adorable and the individual jiva—two
different entities which tend to join together into one union or rather
in a spiritual effusion. The adoption of this Bhakti cule was attempted
by the orthodox by changing it into a kind of intuitive knowledge, in
which aspect Safkara also admitted ic.

The writer says that the etymology of the word “bhakti” implies
the particular idea of the god rendering himself participable to those

Google
Editorial Notes 143,

who seek him, A Bhekte is a person who is not only faithful and
loves god but also is favoured by the god. Liberation is the desire of a
“bhakta”. Narada defines it as ‘tintense love” and adds that by
attaining that “love” a person becomes happy and satisfied.

One of the characteristics of the cule of devotion is the love or
amity chat united together the adorers of the same god. It refers not
merely co abimsa as prescribed in other religions, Brahmanic or hetero-

dox, but it is expressed very well by the term kerwpa (compassion).
This attribute is not exclusive tothe Bhakti cult but is also the
foundation of Buddhism.

All texts agree in admitting that not only “devotion” is the surer
path co salvation but also it is easier because of the piety conferred by
itis sufficient for the faithful to attain che goal while others have to
achieve the same by means of sactifices, asceticism or meditation.

The writer then passes on to the historical evolution of Bhigavata
sect, He remarks that che sectarian religions were born just outside
the Brahmanic cule because of the necessity that the faithful felt for a
personal god to whom he could offer his homage and adoraci
God was adored generally in a human form—the Absolute incarnated
in a being more often with a benevolent object in order to help the
faithful and to confound the perverse.

This sectarian cult had its origin and development in the regions
where very few were brahmanised or not at all brabmanised. The

Mahitmya of the Bhagavata Purine appears to. confirm such origin; it
affirms positively that Bhekti was born in the extreme south, i.e., to
say, in a region where Brahmanic influence was much less chan that in
the North.

When Bhakti was just showing itself in the North, we notice the
earliest evidence of its frequent association with the Ksatriyas. In the
Upanisads, the Ksatriyas were shown attracted to philosophy, perhaps,
because they wanted to avoid the tutelage of the Brahmanas. It is not
by mere accident that the Simkhya, an atheistic system of philosophy,
as also Jainism and Buddhism had their origin in such circumstances,

Whether for this reason or for caste, the Bhagavata inclined co
monotheism whereas Vedism was polytheistic and Brahmanism pan-
thei

Google
144 Editorial Notes

The author then discuses the historical evidences, literary or other-
wise, particularly the temple inscriptions of the pre-Christian eras as
also che philosophic basis of the Bhagavata cult and the assimilation of
yoga with bhakti. He then gives an exposition of the cule of devotion
in the Bhagavadgita under che heads (i) renunciation (sennyase);
(ii) meditation (yoga); (iii) universality of che Bhagavata cult;
(iv) qualities required of the faithful; and (v) the act of living in God.

The writer then takes up the problem of the Upanigadic connec-
tions with the cult of devotion and states that the Bhagavad-Gita, the
principal text of the cult, was incorporated in Brahmanism.
From the metaphysical point of view, the questions raised by Bhakti
and the theories it propounds are not incompatible with certain views
of the Upanisads, In che Bhagavadgita also the intellectual aspect of
bhakti is quite prominent. The writer refers to a few passages of the
different Upanisads in support of his contention.

The writer takes up next che two separate evolutions of the cult
of devotion after the Bhagavad, He first speaks of the different
Gitas, viz., Anugicd, Agastyagica, Sivagica, Ramagita, Pandavagita,
Yamagitd, Gitagovinda of Jayadeva. In the Anugita (of the Mahabhi-
rata) composed sometime after the Bhagavadgita, the power of Visnuis

recognised. Referring to devotion in the Puranas the writer says that
almightiness of Visnu is attested in the Bhagavate Purdna in the same
way asin che Visnw Purine, specially devoted to the glorification of
Visu. The latter Purina is regarded as an authority in the matter of
bhakti and again according co this text, the cult of devotion should be
expressed by ‘yoga’, The Narade Purina, a late work of the 16th
or 17th century, was written in support of bhakti, Ie is a collection
of prayers throwing light on the efficacies of devotion to Hari, whose
other name is Visnu. But other texts more ancient recommend
devotion either to Siva or to Visnu.

Theoretically, the conception of Trimarti: Brahma, Visnuand Siva
was of Brahmanic origin and was incorporated in sectarian cults. The
association of these three gods is frequently mentioned in the Vedas
and Brabmanas. This may be" considered as the three aspects of one

God, viz,, as the creator, consecvator, and destructor, symbolically

expressed as A+U-+M-sOM,

Google
—_

Editorial Notes 145,

The author remarks that the cult of devotion which had its origin
in the Bhagavadgita had its full development in Vigquism. In the
Bhagavedgita, Krsna practically disappeared by revealing himself as
identical with the Brahman and by notifying that adoration addressed
even to another divinity reached him.

In the cule of devotion, certain practices ate clearly recommended as
helpful for obtaining the highest good. These are explained by the writer.

In speaking of the part of Sivaism in the cule of devotion, che
author remarks that the cule of Visnuism recognised, at a later period,
Siva as a secondary god, a sore of Vignu’s envoy. Siva, it is well
known, is an ancient god revered at first under the name of Rudra and
appeared in different aspects in the various works. The writer goes
into detail about the Siva-conception through the ages from Atharva-
veda to the Lingayists and Sakeas. The author chen passes on to the
later religious movements which supported the cule of devotion.

The cult of Bhsksi obtained direct mention in the orthodox
systems, of which the Vedinta represents the renaissance of the
Brahmanic thought. In che Vedanta literature, the Bhagavadgita and
the Pardpas ate considered as sacred as the Veda and the Upanigeds.
Further, notion of personal devotion will be found integrated in all
major systems of thought. The modality of such integration differs
from reformers to reformers. The writer discusses particularly the
views of (a) Saikara, (b) Rimanuja and Sti Sampradaya, (c) Nimbirka,
(4) Madhva or Anandatirtha and the Brahmasampradaya, (e) Vallabha
and then of (a) Kabir and the Kabirpanthis, (b) Caitanya and the
Bhakti of Bengal and (c) Tukarim and the Mahratta-bhakti. :

The paper is ended with the writer’s concluding remarks, biblio-
graphy and a table of contents,

G. Coedés: Nouvelles données sur les origines du roysume
Kbmir—Le Stile de Vit Luong Kin pris de Vit P’bu.

The writer says that in the present state of our knowledge about
the past of the Indo-Chinese peninsula, it is considered that at the end
of the 6th century A.D. Khmer kingdom was constituted at the cost
of Fou-nan which exercised supremacy over the south and south-east of
the Peninsula from the and to the 6th century. Around the city of

Google
146 Editorial Notes

Bastk (=»Champasik) in the territory known as Kambujadesa (Chinese
Tehemla) ruled, under the suzerainty of Fou-nan, the earliest kings of
Kambuja: Srutavarman and Sresthavarman. In the 6th century A.D.
a princess of this family was married co the youngest son of Rudravar-
man the last king of Fou-nan. By this marriage the Fou-nanese
prince Bhavavarman would become the chief of Kambuja. After the
death of Rudravarman who was the son of a concubine, and had
succeeded his father Jayavarman by suppressing the legitimate heir to
the throne, it is likely that Bhavavarman a devout worshipper of Siva
wished to reclaim his succession against an attempt for the restoration
of the legitimate Buddhist branch. Be that as it may, leavingit aside,
it is believed that from the region of Basik in the southern direction,
he with his brother and future successor Citrasena-Mahendravatman
attempted the conquest of Fou-nan which was achieved in the first
half of the 7th century by WSanavarman I, This view of the origin of
the Khmer kingdom is based upon the evidences yielded by the
Chinese dynastic histories and the various epigtaphical docu-
ments.

The legends and traditions are unanimous in representing that the
Khmer kingdom was constituted at the cost of the Chams settled at
Champasik (Bastk). The epigtaphical records of the conquerors of
Fou-nan consist of several inscriptions referring to their victories in
Mékong and southern plateau of Kérat.

The object of the present paper is to make known the unpublished
epigtaphical document which may resolve the difficulties throwing a
new light as it does upon the origin of Kambuja,

M. Archaimbaule visited Vit Luong Kiu and came across the
inscription which he had photographed and placed it at the writer's
disposal. The find-spot of the inscription is on the right of the river
Mékong close to the south of the mouth of the rivulet called Huei Sé
Hua, The stele is square-shaped having a Sanskcit inscription of
16 lines on each side. The script is anterior to those of the ancient
inscriptions of pre-Angkorean Kambuja of the time of Bhavavarman
and his brother Citeasena-Mahendravarman. The writer comments on
the palacogeaphic characteristics which are allied to Pallava scripts of
the sth century and ascertains the date of the present inscription to be

Google
Editorial Notes 147

not later than the second half of the sth century. The original ins-
ctiption as deciphered by the writer is as follows:

l ()
(@)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
@)
(9)

(10)
(11)
(12)
(13)
(14)
(15)
(16)

The first
any sense,

(8)
(9)
(10)

Il (11)
(12)
ut (13)
(14)
IV (15)
(17)

TEXT

Face A (North)
aegera’ fran’ arafrafedt oats 2s
net arat aera ena ATL
arerut atx: prafatitiet arent we tet:
eae stergcirerrafearrerfeaerea
sererhafing: Ta anfsoraggerertareReT
Reastenifeagrent gfriee er waniferdt
[fag}acafefte sararat wae ee fogrg-
fast gxge ea aftasfinn frfeter TF eT
AY ATTAIN ATER
SoErTTT ee aD aelefrftr mate Fefcr
wat qiata aaa stewed teria, eee
arerfiafiet merfirerstarcd frfirefrerererchae-
awenrtat frrgterterrefiodt roa er
TENT RRR TAS: ATTA
wear esteerg ites aerfiragim ateteee

Face B ( West )

seven lines are extremely fragmentary and do not give

a adage ade aT

Lines 11-16 are in verse
aaretfitatat aftr wat
sentra were sft aa:
wart fiorrged ar Ufa”
148

Vi
VIL
Vill

x

XI
XIL
Xi

XIV

xv
XVI
XVII
XVII
XIX

XX

Editorial Notes
Face C ( South )

(1) & wafra werd Wea} aM aT:
wet Qa gear | (2) ae gag a

(3) ssa aaa wag war Fu
3 ear apr [arjren Ofcar fet
HARRI amma Sferg 3 0

(5) [eapenfeaterst TrefieraaTEgT

(6) arard gate + ARTA It
ae Giftcard a Rafi”

(7) (arse were Beds waa
aftr gen = (8) -- Setew act
wenfefet seta" eat diet weTRT

(9) afajarht sete aga ayRT ACT:

(10) wager arate SeaTaFeRL tt

(11) getanfrenfit FT TIT

(12) 3 aata aete a ata fate u

(13) gfeat Aftret gaa WAIT T TH

(14) zarTafi etert geea’ fafereaa 0

(15) awrrettaarft er cree FA

(16) fe gered g are aga WRigaa:

Face D ( East )

(1) sate arate &
wat UaTERT (2) dara aera
Tere 7 FUT wifes warns 3

G) warty gern wrt TT FHI
Roni (4) Teta aif:
Ree Fes weg ett fat]

(5) attr dhiagerat wate vent =
wa freteren(f] (6) ag afefterfr zi
eater we dtéa sfefen)

(7) 4 4 ster @ ARITA:

(8) & atkeftert pita ware 3

(9) 3 wus art feafea a aarfeen:

Google
Editorial Notes 149

XXI (10) Savafieraretat ararat FearreTy,
(11) serie arate srearat arf 3 sar:

XXIL (12) arftnrfragea gerat agua:
(13) gnbifrcar seria i

XXII (14) gereravererenfiarahr erage
(15) Reqrrarernne: geRrererirrsetterre”
(16) serafet afr Rares RETEATAT tt
The writer has translated this inscription into French and com-
mented on its historical importance. The inscription refers to Maha-
rajadhiraja Sriman Sri Devanika who was favoured by the gods and who
had come at the end of the 5th century from a far off place at the call
of the divinity of the Liigaparvata to consecrate a new tirtha
(Kuruksetra) at the foot of the holy mountain, :
The inscription throws light on the succession of events, which led
to the formation of the Khmer kingdom.

G. Terral: Samuddaghosajatake: a Pali story of the Patiiasajataka
(cext established according to the Mss. in Cambodian characters, and
the printed Burmese edition with grammatical notes and French
translation).

The Mss. in Cambodian characters containing the Jatakas and
fragments of Jatakas belonging to the collection Pafifasajataka were
procured in 1875 for the Bibliotheque Nationale of Paris. The writer
gives an account of the documents used by him as also of the researches
already made relating to che Paiiiasajataka. He discusses the folk-
lore data and makes comparative study of the Cambodian and Burmese
versions and comments on the style of the Pali language. He repro«
duces both the Pali versions, Cambodian and Burmese, adding very
learned and extensive grammatical notes and an exhaustive index.
The whole paper covers 100 pages.

Printed and Published by J.C. Sarkhel, at the Calcutta Oriental Press
Private Ltd. 9, Panchanan Ghose Lane, Calcutta-9

Google
Google

Original from

UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
Original from

Digi UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

Original from

Digitized by Google UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
