[AEN “vee

oe w em eo

awe we
_ —_ @
ao Y URA

& ; —_
> {=
es SS
cy) Hura |v,
ue J2=05 St
i an
rest: | >

res
ao,
SZ
rN
Wz
wN
WA
BR
3K
We

oon a

% 4 > 7
EEA

a a meena Naren —eareipowapssegeagent ings neaprmae cei irae menmnnaaganay
THE

JOURNAL

OF THE
Von. X JANUARY: 1945 No. 1
EDITED BY
U.N. GHOSHAL
Articles: Pact
Twelve Years of the Wandering Life of Buddha (P C Bagchi) L
The Rise of Sukhodaya (R. C Mayumdar) 44
The date of accession of Jayavarman [1 (R C Majumdar) 52
Progress of Greater Indian Research during the last twenty-five
years (1917-42)}--A Supplement (U N_ Ghoshal) . 56
Notices of Books:
C Swaramamura, Amarivati Sculptures in the Madras Govern-
ment Museam (U N Ghoshal), J. M Somasundaram Palla,
Paim, The Sacred Hill of Muruga (UN. Ghoshal), N
Venkatatamanyya, The Early Muslen Expansion m South
India (UN, Ghoshal) on 94
Editorial Notes: vee ane oes tee 102
Select Contents of Oriental Journals etc. ves vee 104
Additions to our Library —.,. aos wee wee 105

Published by—
THE GREATER INDIA SOCIETY, CALCUTTA

Agents ontside India—
Messrs LUZAC & CQ., 46 Great Russell Steet, London, w. ¢. 1.

Annual Subscription—Rs 4-8 or 86d, including postage.
Greater India Society (Established 1927):

Aims and Objécts

1. To organise the study of Indian Culture in Greater India (i.e.
Serindia, India Minor, Indo-China and Insulindia) as well as in China,
Korea, Japan, and other countries of Asia.

2. To arrange for publication of the results of researches into the
history of India’s spiritual and cultural relations with the outside world.

3. To create an interest in the history of Greater India and
connected problems among the students in the schools, colleges, and
Universities of India by instituting a systematic study of those subjects
and to take proper steps to stimulate the same.

4. To pepularise the knowledge of Greater India by organising
meetings, lantern lectures, exhibitions and conferences.

Membership Rules

1. The annual subscription payable by members is Rs. 12 /- only.
Members are entitled to receive the publications of the Society at
concession rates and copies of the Journal of the Society free of cost.

2. Resident members may have access to the Society’s collection
of books, pamphlets and periodicals etc. on application either to
the Honorary Secretary of the Society or the Librarian, Calcutta
University. The Society’s collection is housed, by arrangement with
the Calcutta University authorities, in the University Library.

Officers and Members the Managing Committee,
Greater India Society, 1943

President—Sir P. C. Ray, Kt., D Se.

Vice-Presidents—Rao Bahadur K. N. Dikshit, M.A., F.R.A.S.B. ;
O. C. Gangoly, Esq., F.R.A.S.B.

Hony. Secretary—Dr. U. N. Ghoshal, M.A., Ph.D.. F.R.A.S.B.
Hony. Joint Secretary—Dr. Kalidas Nav, M A., D Litt. (Paris.)

Other Members of the Committee— Dr Narendra Nath Law, M.A.,
Ph.D., Prof. Suniti Kamar Chatieryee, MAD Latt., (Lond,);
Dr. Prabodh Chandra Bagchi, M.A., D.Litt., (Paris);
Dr. Nalinaksha Dutt, M.A., Ph.D., D.Litt (Lendon.); Prof.
Vidhusekhara Bhattacharya; Dr. Nihar Ranjan Ray, M.A.,
Ph.D., D.Litt., (Leiden); Dr. Jitendranath Banerjea, M.A.,
Ph.D.; T. N. Ramachandran, Esq., M.A.

JOURNAL OF THE GREATER INDIA SOCIETY
Published twice a year, in January and in July. “Annual Subscrip-

tion—Rs. 4-8 or 8s,-6d.—inclusive of postage. Volumew 1-1X already
published. ,
THE
JOURNAL

OF THE

GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

Vou. X JANUARY: 1943 No. 1

Twelve Years of the Wandering.
Life of Buddha

By Dr. P. C. BaccuHi

A .shert Buddhist text entitled She eul yeu king ++ 3K
“‘Satra on the twelve years of the wandering life of Buddha’
is preserved in a Chinese translation of the end of the 4th
century A.D, The importance of the text cannot be over-
estimated in view of the fact that certain portions of it have
been the object of a number of studies by eminent scholars
(Cf. S. Lévi, Notes sur les Indo-Scythes, JA., 1897, I, 24;
N. Péri, Les Femmes de Sakya-muni, BEFEO., XVIIL I,
20-31; S. Lévi, Pour l'histoire du Ramayana JA., 1918, 83
(tirage); P. Pelliot, La théorie des quatre fils du Ciel, T’oung
Pao, XXIl, 97ff.; S. Lévi, Devaputra, JA., 1934, 1-21). 1 have
therefore thought it fit to take up a study of the whole text
in all its aspects.

The She eul yeu king was translated into Chinese at least
three times. The oldest translation was due to a Buddhist
scholar named Kalaruci who had gone to China either from
India or from the Indian colonies in the Far East. The
translation was made at Canton either in 266 or 286 A.D.
The ancient Chinese catalogues say that Kalaruci’s transla-
tion was in existence till the sixth century, but it was subse-
P. C. BAGCHI-

guently lost. A second translation of the text was made at
Nanking in 392 A.D. by Kalodaka who is mentioned: in the
Chinese sources simply as a Buddhist monk of foreign
origin. It is not clear whether he was an Indian or an
Indianised foreigner. Kalodaka’s translation still exists, A
third translation was made by Gunabhadra who went to
China in 435 A.D. and died there in 468 A.D. His transla-
tion therefore was made sometime between 435 and 468.
Gunabhadra’s translation was subsequently lost (Cf, Pelliot,
Ibid., pp. 97f.; Bagchi, Le Canon Bouddhique en Chine, I,
pp. 115, 335, 386). Nanjio in his Catalogue, No. 1374, gives
a Sanskrit rendering of the name of the text as Dvddaéga-
(varga)-viharana-siitra which seems to be quite justified. |
But his English translation of the name as “‘Sitra of twelve
(years) going for pleasure’’ is not quite correct. It will be
seen from our translation of the text that it deals with the
preaching of Buddha during the first twelve years of his
religious career after his attainment of Bodhi. I have therefore
freely translated the name of the text as ‘“Twelve years of
the wandering life of Buddha’’ although literally it should be
Sitra of the twelve wanderings.

Although the translations of Kalaruci and Gunabhadra
are now lost, a fragment of one of them has been found in
a compilation of 516 A.D. entitled King liu yi siang made
by a Chinese Buddhist scholar named Pao-ch’ang, The
fragment which is not very extensive contains a description
of the different kingdoms in India. Kalodakoa’s translation,
as we shall see later on, ends abruptly with an incomplete
description of Jambudvipa. The passage contained in the
King liu yi siang forms a sort of suite of the present text.
That is why Prof, Lévi (JA., 1918, p. 159) expressed the
opinion that the extract was really the last portion of Kalo-
daka’s translation which was lost but was fortunately pre-
served in the present quotation. Prof. Pelliot however
pointed out (ibid., p. 104) that Pao-ch'ang, the compiler of
the King liu yi siang, who lived in the beginning of the
sixth century and was responsible for the quotation, was also
TWELVE YEARS OF WANDERING LIFE OF BUDDHA 3

acquainted with Kalaruci’s translation. It ie not therefore
impossible that the extract is from the earlier translation and
not from Kalodaka's translation.

Pelliot’s suggestion seems to be confirmed by another
quotation from the She eul yeu king in a work of Sehg-yeu
who also lived in the beginning of the sixth century and was
thus a’ contemporary of Pao-ch’ang. Seng-yeu's work is the
She-kia p’u or “‘A history of the Sakyas’’ which is a very
extensive work. In the second section of Chap. | of his work
Seng-yeu gives a long quotation from the She eul yeu king
in regard to the origin of the Sakyas. It corresponds to the
first part of Kalodaka’s text which we have translated (see
_infra—from the commencement up to... Suddhodana. He
was father of the Bodhisattva’). But there is considerable
difference between Kalodaka's text and the quotation which
shows that Seng-yeu like Pao-ch’ang had before him the
earlier translation.

In regard to the She eul yeu king, a Chinese Catalogue
of the Buddhist Tripitaka, the Chong king mu lu, compiled
in 594 A.D., says that it is composed of extracts from more
extensive works. It is quite possible that the work was such
a compilation but the sources on which it drew upon cannot
be clearly traced. Some of the informations contained in
it seem to be quite original and not found in other texts.
The ancient Chinese authorities like Seng-yeu, Pao-ch’ang
and Tao-siuan, while speaking of the origin of the Sakyas,
consider the She eul yeu king as authoritative as the Agamas
and the Vinayas and as a matter of fact they have no cano-
nical authority to cite for some information on the Sakya race
except the present text. We have already discussed Seng-
yeu's indebtedness to the present text. Tao-siuan (596-667)
A.D.), the founder of the Vinaya school in China was a
it of Hiuan-tsang. .Two of his works the She-kia she

u ‘“‘A history of the Sakya race”’ and She-kia fang che
mA history of the Sakya country” relate to India. The
latter is a sort of abstract of the Si yu ki of Hiuan-tsang,
whereas the former is of the nature of She-kia p’u of
4 P. C. BAGCHI-

Seng-yeu. Tao-siuan refers to the She eul yeu king on
several occasions in his She-kia she p’u in connection with
the names of the members of the Sakya clan and their stature.
It is therefore clear that in the sixth and the seventh cen-
turies the Chinese Buddhist scholars attached a great im-
portance to the present work.

The She eul yeu king does not therefore seem to have
been a Chinese compilation as it is not mentioned as such
by the ancient Chinese authorities. The fact that three
different translations were made of the same text shows that
there was an Indian original of the text. This original text
however was not a finished work, but an incomplete com-:
pilation of the history, of the Sakya race which included also |
a description of the Jambudvipa over which the Gautama
Buddha exercised his spiritual authority. In regard to the
latter part of the work the original was either incomplete
or mutilated. A glance at the text shows that it is composed
of different elements. Some of which may be traced to
different parts of the Vinaya and Agama works. The elements
of its composition are the following:

}. The life of the Bodhisattva in the a-seng-k’i
(asarnkheya) kalpa.

If. The hfe of the Bodhisattva in the Bhadrakalpa and
the incarnation of the Bodhisattva.

Il]. The history of the Bodhisattva and his family.

IV. Buddha’s predication during the first twelve years
of his religious career—[this is the fundamental
basis of the text}.

V. A description of the Jambudvipa and the various
countries and islands in it. This portion has no
coherent relation with the earlier portion and
comes in in an abrupt manner.

]

. The importance of the She eul yeu king in the first place
lies in*the fact that it gives certain details of the life of
Buddha which are not found in other texts. The legendary
TWELVE YEARS ©F WANDERING LIFE OF BUDDHA 5

history of the Bodhisattva of the asarhkheya kalpa as given
in the first part of the text must have been taken from some
Jataka which I. have not been able to trace. The story of
the descent of the Bodhisattva from the Tusita heaven is
not found exactly in the same form in which ic is given in
the present text, The story of this descent is given in the
Mahavastu (vol. Hl, pp. If.) in somewhat similar language.
It is said that the Bodhisattva at the time of his descent on
earth makes four observations (vilokita) in regard to the time,
place, continent and the family. In the present text it is
said that the Bodhisattva looked around from the Tusita
heaven to see in which kingdom of the Jambudvipa he would
take birth. During his descent the elephant Yi-lo-man
(airavana) drew his chariot. He is described here as having
33 heads. “‘Each head has 7 trunks of which each contains
a lake. In each lake there are 7 utpala flowers. Upon each
flower there is a beautiful girl.’” In the Mahdasudassana-
sutta (Dialogues of Buddha, Ill, p. 204) the elephant-king is
described as ‘‘seven-fold’’ -satta-ppatittho, The translators
have explained this expression as meaning the ‘four legs,
two tusks and trunk.’’ But the real meaning seems to be
the same as that found in the present text.

In the present text it is said that Buddha had three wives.
The first wife was Kiu-yi (Gopi) the daughter of the noble
Jalaprabha (Shuei Kuang—‘water-bright’) who was of the
Sho-yi family which also beionged to the Gautama clan. The
mother of Kiu-yi (Gopi) was Candrakumari (Yue-niu: moon-
girl), Jalaprabha‘ lived near the frontier of the kingdom of
Kapilavastu. The second wife of the Bodhisattva was
Ye-wei-t’an (Yagodhara) who was the daughter of the noble
Ye-she (Yaéa). Yagodhara was the mother of Lo-yu (Rahula).
The third wife was Lu-yi (Mrgaja} who was the daughter of
the noble She (Sakya?). The text further says that three
different palaces were made for the Bodhisattva and each
palace was provided with 2,000 dancing girls. This elaborate
arrangement for the pleasure of the Bodhisattva was made
because he was destined to be a Che-kia-yue (Cakravartin).
6 P. C. BAGCHI

This tradition about the three wives of the Bodhisattva
runs contrary to the Pali tradition which has been so long
implicitly relied upon. M. Péri in his masterly article, al-
ready referred to, has made a comprehensive study of all
canonical and non-canonical texts relating to the wives of
the Bodhisattva. He has shown that although one wife of
Buddha either called Gopa or Yasgodhara is mentioned in
a certain number of texts, in a number of equally ancient
texts three distinct wives of the Bodhisattva have been
clearly mentioned. Thus in the Mialasarvastivada-vinaya
there is mention of the three wives: Yasodhara, the
daughter of Dandapani, Gopika, the daughter of Kinkini-
évara and Mrgaja, the daughter of Kalakrama (2). In a life
of Buddha entitled the Siu hing pen ki king translated into
Chinese in 197 A.D. there is mention of Gopa, the daughter
of Suprabuddha and besides of two other wives of whom
the names are given in Chinese as Ching-ch’eng-wei and
Ch’ang-lo-yi. In another life of Buddha translated into
Chinese in the 10th century and entitled the Chong hiu mo
ho ti king there is mention of Yagodhara, Gopika and: Mrgaja.
Thus it is the tradition contained in the Malasarvastivada-
vinaya which is followed in these texts as well as in the
She eul yeu king.

There is some discrepancy regarding the names of the
fathers of the three wives. In some sources it is said that
the father of Gopa was Dandapani whereas in other sources
he is mentioned as the father of Yaégodhara. But the tra-
dition is probably stated in the most correct form
in the Fo pen hing tsi king which was translated into Chinese
in the sixth century. It is said there that Mahanaman was
the father of Yasodhara, while Dandapani was the father of
Gautami which was probably another name of Gopa as she
belonged to the Gautama race. Mahanaman is apparently
the same as Yaga of the She cul yeu king because the two
names mean the same thing: glory, great glory. It is diffi-
cult to say why we get the name Shuei yue lit, Jalaprabha
in the She eul yeu king instead of Dandapani mentioned in
TWELVE YEARS GF WANDERING LIFE OF BUDDHA 7

other sources. But there is no doubt that they are the same
person. Dandapani belonged to the Sakya race, Jalaprabha
also belonged to the same race, it is clearly stated in our
text that the name of the family to which he belonged was
Sho-yi and that of his clan was Gautama. M. Peri (loc. cit.,
p. 20) has taken Sho-yi as Sravasti. But that is not evidently
correct. The old transcription of the name of Sravasti in
Chinese is Sho-wei. Besides in two other places of the
She eul yeu king the same name Sho-yi occurs. The first of
the Sakya clan is called Sho-yi jen. Then again when the
stature of the different members of the Sakya clan is des-
cribed. it is said that the height of the body of other ‘‘persons
belonging to the She-yi family’’ was 14 ft. Sho-yi therefore
seems to be an archaic transcription of the name Sakya.
In old pronounciation Sho-yi was something like gia’ (g)i
(Sagya<‘Sakya). Thus it seems that the noble Shue-yue
‘(Jalaprabha) who was the father of Gopi or Gopa belonged
to the Sakya family and was the same person as mentioned
in other sources as Dandapani. The father of Mrgaja is
according to certain sources Kalakrama or Kalika but accord-
ing to the She eul yeu king he was again a She i.e. a Sakya.

The story of the conversion of Sariputra and Maudga-
lyayana as told in the present text is essentially the same
as that found in other texts for example in the Mahdvagga
(I, 24), Milasarvastivadavinaya (Taisho, 1444) and the Maha-
vastu (III, pp. 57ff). But She eul yeu king is the only source
which states that Maudgalyayana was a general of the country
of Mi-yi-lo (Mithila ?), In all other sources both Sariputra and
Maudgalyayana are stated to have belonged to Brahmanical
families: In the Mahavastu the story is given as follows:
Upatisya was the son of a rich Brahmin of Nalanda which was
at a distance of half a yojana from Rajagrha. He was also
known as Sariputra as his father’s name was Sari. He went to
the houses of a Guru at Kolitagrama for the study of the
Vedas. The Guru was a rich Brahmin of the Maudgalyagotra.
The latter's son was Kolita. Upatigya and Kolita became fast
friends, There were five hundred students but Upatisya
8 P. C. BAGCHI *

and Kolita completed their studies earlier. The two friends
often met each other even after the completion of their
studies. Once both of them went to attend the annual festi-
val of the Giryagrasamaja, Kolita went in great pomp in
a chariot driven by four horses and accompanied by a
thousand servants. The two friends on account of their pre-
vious merit developed a dislike for worldly things and decid-
ed to take to religious life. They first became the disciple
of Safijaya Vairatiputra. They were however dissatished
with the latter’s way and soon separated. Buddha was then
at Venuvana. The Bhiksu Upasena had come to the city
of Rajagrha for alms. Sariputra saw him and questioned
him about his teacher. Just after the first exchange of words
with Upasena Sariputra got the spiritual light. When
Sariputra came back to the place where Maudgalyayana was
waiting the latter at once perceived the change in him. He
then hastened to ask him: ‘‘How is your teacher called?
What has he taught you.’ Sariputra replied: ‘The Tatha-
gata has taught the dharmas which have a cause and also their
cause. The great Sramana has also spoken on its cessation.”
The two friends then went to the Venuvana. Buddha foresaw
that they were coming, announced it to his disciples and had
seats prepared for them. After their initiation Sariputra be-
came an Arhat in 7 days and Maudgalyayana in 15 days.
The name of the Bhiksu who gave the first information to
Sariputra is here Upasena, but in our text it is given as the
“master of horse’’—Aévajit, That is the name which is also
found in the Pali Vinaya. The law of Buddha is described
by Aévajit to Sariputra in our text as follows: ‘According
to Buddha all dharma has a cause. (He also speaks on) its
destruction, on the extinction of all pains and on nirvana.”
It is not quite the same as that expressed in the famous verse—
Ye dharma hetuprabhava...by which Sariputra first describes
the law of Buddha but the four Aryan truths (catvari
Gryasatyani). The scene is placed in our text on the road
from Venuvana to Sravasti but elsewhere at Venuvana in
Rajagrha. ‘
TWELVE YEARS OF WANDERING LIFE OF BUDDHA 9

The conversion of Sariputra and Maudgalyayana took
place according to our text in the fifth year of his active
career as a teacher, The principal events of the first twelve
years of his career are given in the text, They do not quite
agree with what we know from other sources. According
to the present text, Buddha left the house in the 29th year
and practised asceticism for six years, He attained Bodhi
in the 35th year of his life. From the 8th day of the 4th
month till the 15th day of the 7th month he remained seated
under the Bodhi tree. This was the first year of his active
career. From this account it appears that the 8th day of the
4th month was the day when he attained Bodhi. It is accord-
ing to all Indian tradition the full moon day of Vaisakha. This
can be the 8th day of the 4th month according to a Calen-
dar (8th April) which commenced in January. He remained
under the Bodhi tree up to the I5th day of the 7th month
which according to the same Calendar would be the [5th
July (Sravana). He stayed under the tree for about 14 weeks.
It was then that he started for the Deer Park to make his
first disciples.

There is no confirmation of this account in other sources.
‘All other accounts unanimously tell us that after the attain-
ment of Bodhi, Buddha stayed under the tree and in its
neighbourhood for seven weeks. It was on the last day,
that the two merchants Tapussa and Bhallika came and
offered him food. They became his first lay disciples. Buddha
then thought of revealing his spiritual knowledge to others.
He first thought of his former teacher Udraka, but he found
out that the latter had died the previous night, He then
thought of his five former associates of the Deer Park at
Benares. But he left the Bodhi tree only on the full moon
day of Asadha i.e. eight weeks after the attainment. of
Bodhi, This account is quite reasonable for the fact that the
full moon day of Asadha was the beginning of the Vargavasa.
It was therefore necessary for Buddha, according to the ascetic
practices of those days, to leave the open space and go to
a place of retreat on that day. I believe there is a mistake
10 P. C. BAGCHI

in the Chinese translation, We should have 6th month instead
of the 7th month.The [5th day of the 6th month would
correspond accordingly to the full moon day of Agsadha. It
sééms that the year of predication was calculated according
to the season of retreat (varsavdsa). As the second year
in our account, too, commences with the arrival of the teacher
in the Deer Park it is quite natural that the day of his
departure from the precincts of the Bodhi tree was the
full moon day of Asadha.
In the second year, Buddha converted A-jo-kiu and his
friends. These were Ajniata Kaundinya and his four friends
—Bhadrika, Vaspa, Aégvajit and Mahanaman. They are
otherwise known as the Bhadravargiyas or the Paficavargiyas
(Mahavastu Il, pp. 329 ff.). The place of the conversion of
the Bhadravargiyas is wrongly given in some sources as
Uruvela (Kern, Manual, p. 24). The others converted in the
second year were Pi-p’o-tan, 17 men including Kia-che-lo,
the Elder Ta tsai, Eul isai nien, Yiu-po-yi and the Nirgra-
ntha Cheng nien. He preached the law also to 42 men
including Ti-ho-kie-lo fo (Dipamkara Buddha). This is not
confirmed by other accounts. Pi-p’o-tan and Kia-che-lo are
not known from other sources. The Sresthi Ta-tsai (lit.
great talent) may be the same as YaSa. YaéSa was a rich
merchant of Benares. He along with his wife and 54 friends
received ordination from Buddha shortly after the conver-
sion of the Bhadravargiyas (Kern, ibid., p. 24). Yiu-po-yi-
*Upaga seems to be the same as Upaka, an Ajivika monk,
whom the Buddha met on his way to the Deer Park. Upaka
was much impressed by the appearance of Buddha and made
enquiries about the law followed by him (Kern, ibid., 23).
In the third year Buddha converted the three disciples
of Kagyapa as well as 1000 disciples of theirs. The three
disciples of Kasyapa were Uruvela Kaéyapa, Nadi Kaéyapa.
and Gaya Kaéyapa. Their conversion took place at Uruvela
where Buddha had retired in the third season of retreat.
This account agrees with all other sources (Kern, ibid., p. 24).
The happenings of the fourth year also are confirmed
TWELVE YEARS OF WANDERING LIFE OF BUDDHA 11

to some extent by other accounts. According to the present
text Buddha went to the mountain called Siang-t’eu
(Gaja-Sirsa) where he converted all kinds of supernatural
beings, Gajagirsa hill is the same as the Gayadgirsa hill of
other accounts. It was not far from Uruvela. According to
other accounts, Buddha went to the GayaSirga hil] accom-
panied by the three KaSyapas whem he had just converted
and gave there a sermon on the dditya-parydya. All his
hearers there were converted (Kern. ibid., p. 24). The
principal events of the fifth year were the conversion of
Sse-ho-mei (>?) who is not otherwise known and that of
Sariputra’) and Maudgalyayana which we have already
discussed. °

In the present text it is said that in the sixth year Siu-ta
(Sudatta) and Prince Che-t’o (Jeta}) made for Buddha a
Sangharama, 12 pagodas, 72 halls, 3600 rooms and 500
towers, This is evidently a reference to the gift of the Jeta-
vana at Sravasti by Sudatta who is also known as An&atha-
pindika. According to other sources the sole donor was
Sudatta. He purchased the Jetavana from Prince Jeta at a
fabulous price and erected a splendid monastery, in the
midst a private room (gandhakuti) for the master and all
around separate dwellings for the senior monks, cells etc.
(Kern,ibid., p. 28). The exact number of these constructions
is not given in cther sources.

The events of the 7th, 8th and 9th years, as recorded in
the present text, are not quite clear, Buddha was in the
country of Kiu-ye-ni in the 7th year. Kiu-ye-ni- * Ku-zia-ni
seems to be Kuéginagara. Buddha, we are told, communi-
cated the Pan-cheu-king to eight men including the Bodhi-
sattva So-t’o-ho. Two texts Pan-cheu-king were translated
as early as the end of the 2nd century A.D. by the Yue-che
Lokaksema (Hobogirin, nos. 417, 418). The Sanskrit titles
of the texts have been restored as Bhadrapdla-siitra, The
name of the Bodhisattva is not known from other sources.
In the 8th year Buddha resided on the mountain Liu and
converted King Chen-t’o-lo—Candra. In the 9th year he was
12 P. C. BAGCHI -

in the lake Wei and converted T’o-kiu-mo. These intfor-
mations are not confirmed by other sources. Wei may be a
mistake for an-wei which would have rendered the name
of the lake Anavatapta (Pkt. anotatid), Some of the legen-.
dary accounts would have us believe that Buddha went to
the Anavatapta lake and converted the Naga king there.

In the 10th year Buddha came back to Mo-kie (Magadha)
and coverted Fo-kia-sha. The person converted seems to
be Pukkusa who was a disciple of Alara Kalama. The
place of his conversion is given in other sources as Pava
(Kern, ibid., p. 43). The event of the I Ith year is not recorded
in other sources, We are told that Buddha spoke on the
past life to Maitreya under “‘the fearful tree’ (>). From
other sources we learn that Buddha passed some time in the
Deer Park of a Yaksa called Bhayamkara in the country
of the Bhargas, The name of the Yaksga is also given as
Bheskala in some texts (Kern, ibid., p. 34).

The main events of the 12th year, as recorded in the
present text, were Buddha's return to Kapilavastu, conver-
sion of Ch’a-mo-kie on the way to the city and conversion -
of the members of the Sakya clan. Ch’a-mo-kie may be
Sumagadha, who was the daughter of Anathapindika,
married to a rich merchant of the Anga country, Buddha
had been to the Anga country to pay her a visit (Kern, ibid.,
p. 38).

In a résumé of events in the Chinese text it is said that
Buddha visited 14 countries in course of these twelve years.
There are three lacunae in the Chinese text which have been
indicated by dots in our translation. Inspite of these lacunz
it is clear that the number of countries mentioned are only
seven. The number 14 has been given by taking into consi-
deration the Chinese translations of the seven names. The
seven countries visited by Buddha are the following: (1). The
ccuntry of king Po-sse-jo (Pasenadi-Prasenajit) i.e. Kosala.
The name of Prasenajit is translated as ho-yue ‘‘joyful.’’
The old transcription Po-sse-jo can be restored only as
Pasena, This was understood by the Chinese translator as
TWELVE YEARS OF. WANDERING LIFE OF BUDDHA 13

“joyful’’ (-prasanna). (2). Kia-wei-lo-yue—Kapilavastu—the
translation of the name as miao-to “‘good merit’’ is quite
regular (Rosenberg, Vocabulary, p. 130). (3). Sho-wei—Sra-
vasti; the Chinese translation—wu wu pu yu literally means
abhave-nihsattva ‘‘without substance, without character’.
This was the translation of a symbolical name of Sravasti
as in the case of Kapilavastu. In the case of Vaiésali also
we will find such a name. (4). Wei-ye-li—Vaisali, there are two
Chinese translations of the name. Kuang-ta ‘“‘vast’’ is the
literal translation of the mame. The other tu sheng sse
“saving from birth and death’”’ is, | believe, the translation
ot the’ symbolical name. (5). Lo-yue-ki is Rajagrha. The
Chinese translation of the name as wang she **king’s house”
is more commonly found in the texts than the transcribed
name. (6). Kiu-leu is evidently a transcription of the name
Kuru. The translation of the name as che she kuo “‘the
country of the masters of knowledge’’ is a reference to the
old tradition that the Kuru country was famous for its lore
of knowledge. (7). Po-lo-nai—Varanasi. Lu-ye- *‘Deer Park”’
(Mrgadava) is wrongly given as translation of the name of
the country.

It may be reasonably questioned why the present text
gives a description of the activities of Buddha only for
twelve years. The cycle of events as described here is a
perfectly complete cycle, After Buddha had taken the deci-
sion of preaching his law to others he set out on his self-
imposed errand, visited all the principal countries in
North-India and ultimately returned to the country of his
nativity where he preached his law to his own people and
converted them. The subsequent career of Buddha as
described in other sources is nothing but a repetition of
visits to the same old centres and conversion of other peoples
who did not play any significant part in the history of the
faith. Were these twelve years the whole career of Buddha
according to the earlier sources?

It may be pointed out that even according to other sources
there is a complete blank in the career of Buddha for twenty-
14 P. C. BAGCHI

three years. There is in these sources a narration of events up
to the 20th year of Buddha’s religious career. There is then a
blank of 23 years. After that, there is a resumption of the
account of what happened during the last eight years of
Buddha's life (Kern, ibid., p. 38)

The blank is explained in the following manner in an
account of the Fo shuo pa ta ling t'a hao king which |
translated some time ago (J. H. Q. XVII, pp. 223 ff.). The
text was rendered into Chinese by Fa-t’ien towards the end
of the J0th century, The text contains the following gathas :

‘Twenty-nine years I passed in the royal palace.
For six years | practised asceticism on the snowy
mountain. For five years | converted men in the
city of Rajagrha. For four years I stayed in the
Pi-sha forest. For two years | stayed peacefully
on the Jo-li-yen (Nairafijana), For twenty-three
years | stayed in Sravasti. In the city of Vaiéali, in
the Mrgadava, Mo-kiu-li and Trayastrimga heaven,
She-shu-na and Kiao-shen-mi ( Kavsambi) on the
peak of the Ratnacaitya mountain and in wilder-
ness, in the town of Wei-nu, Fei-lan-ti, in the city
of Kia-pi, the capital of king Suddhodana, in
each of these places the Sakya Tathagata travelled
and stayed for one year—thus eighty years he
lived in this world. Afterwards the meu-ni (muni)
entered Nirvana.

Pi-sha (wrongly printed in the article referred to, as Pihha)
seems to be the same as Bheskala forest which belonged to
the country of the Bhargas, Mo-kiu-li may be Mucalinda, the
Naga, in whose place Buddha stayed for some time. She-
shu-na is the SirhSumaragiri,. the capital of the Bhargas. Wei-
nu may be Venuvana. Fei-lan-ti is Veratija. The blank of 23
years is explained here as a “‘stay in Sravasti’’. According
to this account the first period consists of the activities
during the first eleven years after the attainment of Bodhi.
It was followed by 23 years’ stay in Sravasti. The last
period consists of eight or nine years. There is a mistake
TWELVE YEARS OF' WANDERING LIFE OF BUDDHA 15

in the calculation by one or two years. The first period of
active career probably lasted for eleven years. Then came
the prolonged stay of twenty-three years at Sravasti. That
would make in all 80 years (29+6+ 11+23+9+2=80 years).
From this account too it appears that the period of Buddha's
activities lasted for twelve years including the year of his
attainment of Bodhi. It was followed by the long period of
blank. The account of the She-eul-yeu-king in this regard
seems to have a special significance.

I

The text contains the first literary mention in a text of
Indian origin of Devaputra in the special sense in which
the Kushans used it in India, In the last section of the
text which concerns Jambudvipa it is said that there are four
Devaputras—"‘Sons of Heaven"’ (Chinese T’ien-tseu). ‘‘In
the East there is the Devaputra of the Tsin. The people are
prosperous there. In the South there is the Devaputra of
the country of T’ien-chu, The country is much noted for its
elephants. In the West there is the Devaputra of Ta-ts’in.
The country produces gold, silver, gems and jade, In the
North-West there is the Devaputra of the Yue-che. The
country produces many good horses.*” Thus the four
countries which possessed Devaputras were Tsin—China,
T’ien-chu—India, Ta-ts’in—Roman Orient, and the Yue-che
country or the Indo-Scythian Empire.

It is now admitted that the Kushan Emperors borrowed
the title Devaputra—‘*‘Son of Heaven’’ from China. Kaniska,
Huvigka, Vasudeva, all use this title, The kings of Khotan
who were most probably connected with the Kushans use
the same title in the Kharosthi documents of the Stein
Collection. Tien-tseu or the ‘Son of Heaven’ was the regular
title of the Emperor of China. Jt did not have that special
significance anywhere else. The Kushan, Emperors were
the first to establish contact with China, Persia and the
Roman Empire and to use titles signifying the Imperial dignity
in all the countries with which they entertained relations.
16 P. C. BAGCHI

As the Emperor of India they used the common, Indian
title maharaja. But they also borrowed the title rajatiraja
“the king of kings’’ from Iran, the title of devaputra— ‘the
son of Heavens’ from China and most probably the title of
kaisara (Ceesar) from the Roman Empire. The reading of
the last title which is found only in the Ara Inscription of
Vajeshkaputra Kanigka (Konow, Corpus, p. 165) is doubt-
ful. It ig however quite probable that a great Kushan king
would use such a title, as it was the last of a series of titles
known to him signifying the Imperial dignity.

A number of references to the Kushan use of the title of
Devaputra found in almost contemporary literature has been
cited by Profs. Lévi and Pellict. The commentary of the
Mahaprajiaparamita by Nagarjuna which has been preserved
in a Chinese translation of Kumarajiva under the title of
Ta che tu luen mentions four kinds of gods—*‘gods by name,
gods by birth, gods by purity, and gods by natural purity.”
The text further says that the god by name “‘is now the
king whom one calls Devaputra."” In a Chinese text entitled
Nan cheu yi wu che compiled by Wan-chen in the 3rd
century A.D., now known only from some quotations in
other texts, it js clearly stated that “‘the king in the Yue-che
country is called the ‘son of Heaven’—(Devaputra)."’ Laast-
ly I believe that the same tradition is recorded, but in a
slightly altered form, by MHiuan-tsang, While speaking
about the kingdom of Kie-p’an-t’o (Tash Kurghan) in the
Pamirs, the pilgrim tells us that the rulers of the country
styled themselves Chi-na-t’i-p'i-k’iu-tan-lo (Cina-deva-gotra)
as they claimed descent from a Chinese lady and the sun-
god (Watters, On Yuan Chwang, Il, p. 286; Beal—Buddhist
Records, II, p. 300). Devagotra in this case is reminiscent
of Devaputra, the title used by the Kushans. Tash Kurghan
which is an the way from Kashmir to Kashgar was certainly
one of the mast important Yue-che outposts towards Central
Asia. It is therefore quite natural that even in the 7th century
a petty ruling dynasty in the inaccesstble mountains would still
call themselves Devaputra and claim through it a relation-
TWELVE YEARS OF WANDERING LIFE OF BUDDHA 17

ship with China. Chi-na-t’i-p’o-k'iu-tan-lo may be as well
a mistake for-—t’i-p'o-fo-tan-lo (Devaputra) which Yi-tsing
mentions on two occasions. In one of his works (Chavannes,
Mémoire sur les Religieux éminents, p. 56, n. 3) he refers to
T’i-p’o-fo-tan-lo (Devaputra) as the title of the Emperor
who resided at the Chinese capital. In another work (Records
of the Buddhist Practices, Takakusu, p: 136) he explains it
more fully. ‘‘When they (Indians) hear that one is a priest
of Devaputra (T’i-p’o-fo-tan-lo) all pa, great honour and
respect, wherever one goes. Deva (t'i-po) means ‘hea-
ven’ (tien) and putra (fo tan lo) means ‘son’ (tseu); the
priest of the Devaputra is more fully “One who has come
from the place where dwells the Son of Heaven of Cina
(China)."’

Devaputra in this special sense is used in a section of the
Suvarnaprabhasa-satra which has been discussed in detail by
Prof. Lévi and compared by him with its different Chinese
and Tibetan translations. The most significant lines are the
following :

kirh capi manuge loke jdyate Sriyate nrpah
api vai devasambhito devaputrah sa ucyate.
trayastrimsair devardjendrair bhago datto ......

“Although he is born and although he flourishes in the
world of men but as his existence depends on the gods he is
called devaputra, The thirty-three greatest kings of gods
all give him a portion each...’’.

Prof, Lévi has shown that the Brahmanical texts like the
Manusamhita and the Mahabharata contain similar ideas on
the divine origin of royalty, but there is no mention of the title
devaputra. Kaniska was a patron of Mahayana. The
Suvarnaprabhasa-sitra is a very ancient Mahayana work.
The special importance which it attaches to the title deva-
putra in the sense in which the Kushan emperors used it
shows that the text was compiled in the Kushan period.

The title devaputra according to Prof. Lévi was
introduced in India by the Yue-che through an Iranian
medium. ‘“The Yue-che emperors’, Prof. Lévi says, ‘before
18 P. C. BAGCHI

introducing in India the Imperial title which they had picked
up from the Chinese in course of their perigrenations in
order to round the Pamir, had been in contact, as well as
sn conflict, with the people speaking an Iranian language
who extended up to Central Asia. They were specially in
contact with the Arsacidan dynasty, the successors of the
Seleucides, who had extended their empire up to the fron-
tiers of India. It was certainly in this region that an Iranian
translation of the Chinese title t’ien-tseu was elaborated and
fixed under the form bagpuhr’. This Arsacidan form
bagpuhr was according to Lévi the intermediary through
which the Chinese Vien-tseu became devaputra,

But the presence of the title bagpuhr in Iranian can be
ascertained only through a Sogdian intermediary Bypwr
which occurs in a solitary old Sogdian letter which was
found in a mutilated condition, The Arab geographers and
travellers of later times mention the title either as baghbur
or as faghfur which must have reached them through Persian
sources. But the intermediate stages are unknown. Besides
the Chinese sources which alone speak of the migration of
the Yue-ches to the Oxus valley and of their ultimate con-
quest of India do not say that the earlier Yue-che rulers
used the title. - The Kushans only used this title after the
conquest of India and after the foundation of an empire
which extended from the Hindukush up to Eastern India.
Devaputra was not the only title which they used, They
used besides, the titles. of Maharaja, Rajatiraja and probably
also Kaisara. It was therefore the deliberate expression of
the sentiment of vainglory on the part of the first Kushan
Emperor of India. It is thus more likely that ‘Devaputra’
was not conceived after an franian original like bagpuhr
but directly after the Chinese tradition. The Kushan
Emperors of India had direct relation with China. It must
be remembered that the ancient Khotanese rulers who had
Kushan affinities use the Indian title devaputra inspite of the
fact that the local language of Khotan was a form of Eastern
Iranian, It is therefore more probable that the Iranian
TWELVE YEARS OF WANDERING LIFE OF BUDDHA ig

bagpuhr instead of being the basis of the Sanskrit devaputra
was an adaptation of the Sanskrit title.

It is true that the passage of the She eul yeu king which
we have already quoted and which mentions the four Deva-
putras of the Jambudvipa places the Yue-che country out-
side India. it locates China in the East, India in the South,
Ta-ts’in (Roman Orient) in the’ West and the Yue-che
country in the North-West. But the starting point of this
geographical distribution is not clear. Ta-ts'in was in the
West and China in the East in relation to Iran. But how could
the Yue-che country be placed in the North-West in the same
sense, The importance lies not in the geography but in the fact
that the compiler of the She eul yeu king knew that the
Emperor of China was known as Devaputra and so also the
Yue-che (Kushan) Emperors of India. For him devaputra
was a title which conveyed the sense of a paramount ruler
and that is why he used it to describe the four great rulers
of the world known, to him.

The ‘‘theory of the four sovereigns’’ has been discussed
by Prof, Pelliot in great detail in his article which | have
already mentioned. He has quoted various texts in which
this theory has been elaborated and has also tried to trace
similar notions in India but without much success, The
Chinese and Arabic sources, as he has shown, are full of
references to this theory but such references in Indian
sources are very meagre,

Hiuan-tsang in the introduction to his Si-yu-ki first of all
gives a description of the Buddhist cosmology and then
introduces the story of the four great sovereigns of Jambu-
dvipa and their respective countries. The Buddhist cosmo-
logy as given by Hiuan-tsang is the same as found in other
Buddhist texts, for example in the Abhidharmakoga (Vallée
Poussin, Ill, pp. 45ff.), According to this cosmology there
are four islands: Videha in the East, Jambu in the South,
Gedaniya in the West and Kuru in the North. The king
who rules over all the four islands is called *‘Gold Wheel
king’’ (suvarne-cakravartin). The king who rules over the
29 P, C. BAGCHI

three islande excepting the northern one is called the ‘‘Silver
Wheel king’’ (raupya-cakarvartin). The ruler of two islands
—Jambudvipa and Videha are called “Copper Wheel king”’
(tamra-cakravartin). The “Iron Wheel king’ (ayas-cakar-
vartin) bears sway only on the Jambudvipa. How this
gradual decay in the sovereign power of the kings took
place has been told in the She eul yeu king (§. Il) with
reference to the kings of the Sakya race. Destruction of
life was the cause which gradually brought about this deca-
dence. It-also shortened the life of the rulers and brought
diseases on earth. While speaking about the Cakravartin
rulers the She eul yeu king however speaks of the four
heavens (tien) instead of the four dvipas. The Iron Wheel
king is according to it the king of the Southern Heaven
which corresponds to the Southern Island or Jambudvipa
of other sources.

Hiuan-tsang then speaks of the four great sovereigns of
the Jambudvipa. The information given by him is not
found in any other Buddhist cosmological source, He tells
us (Watters, 1, pp. 35ff.) that when the last Cakravartin king
(i.e. the Jron Wheel king) ceased to exist, the Jambudvipa
was divided amongst four sovereigns. These four sovereigns
were the Elephant-Lord (Gajapati) in the South, the Lord of
Precious substances (Ratnapati) in the West, the Horse-Lord
(Agvapati) in the North and Man-Lord (Narapati) in the East.
Watters has summarised the passage thus:

“In the South is the Elephant-lord whose territory has a
hot moist climate with people energetic, devoted to study and
addicted to magical arts, wearing garments which cross the
body and leave the right shoulder bare: their hair is made
into a topknot in the middle and hangs down on the sides:
they associate in towns and live in houses of several storeys.
In the West is the Lord of Precious Substances who rules
over the sea abounding in pearls, whose subjects are rude
and covetous, wear short coats fastened to the left, cut their
hair short and have long mustachios; they live in towns also

and are traders. The Horse-Lord rules in the North; his
TWELVE YEARS OF WANDERING LIFE OF BUDDHA a1

country is very cold yielding horses, and, with inhabitants
of a wild fierce nature who commit murder without remorse,
they live in felt tents and are migratory herdsmen. In the
East is.the Man-Lord who has a well-peopled territory with
a genial climate where all good manners and social virtues
prevail and the people are attached to the soil.’’

Tao-siuan, who summarised the Si-yu-ki in his She kia

fang che, has identified the four sovereigns of the Jambu-
dvipa mentioned by Hiuan-tsang but in rather vague terms.
He identifies the Elephant-Lord (Gajapaté) with the king
of India, the Lord of Precious Substances (Ratnapati) with
the king of Hu (the barbarians), the Horse-Lord (A Svapati)
with the T’u-kiue (Turks), and the Man-Lord (Narapati)
with China. He adds that in the country of the Elephant-
Lord the king rules the country with the help of “‘soldiers
mounted on elephants."’ In a later work named the Siu
kao seng chuan (compiled between 664 and, 667) Tao-siuan
gives a more precise identification of the four regions while
narrating the biography of Hiuan-tsang. He says that in
India there is a tradition that Jambudvipa is governed,
by four kings. ‘“The East is called Che-na (Cina}the lord
of the country is the king over men. The West is called
Po-sse (Persia). the lord of the country is the king over gems.
The South is called Yin-tu (India)—the lord of the country
is the king over elephants."” The North is called Hien-yun
(Hiong-nu, i.e. Turks etc.)—the lord of the country is the
king over horses’’.

It is quite clear from this that Tao-siuan was trying to
elaborate the information supplied by Hiuan-tsang either
verbally or through the Si-yu-ki, in the light of the geographi-
cal knowledge then possessed by the Chinese scholars. We
have already seen that Tao-siuan knew the She eul yeu king
and utilised it on several occasions for his compilation of the
She-kia she p’u. But he does not follow the identification of
regions as given in that text—China in the East (noted for
the prosperity of its people), T’ien-chu (India) in the south
(noted for its elephant), Ta-ts'in (Roman Orient) in the West
22 P. C. BAGCHI

{noted for its precious substances), and Yue-che in the
North-West (noted for its horses). The reason is quite evi-
dent. Ta-ts’in and Yue-che had ceased to exist in the time
of Hiuan-stang and Tao-siuan. So instead of these he gives two
names of real significance in his time—Po-sse (Persia) in the
West and T'u-kiue (Turks) in the North. Therefore the
theory of the four sovereigns—Narapati, in the East,
Gajapati in the South, Agvapati in the North (or North-
West, and Ratnapati in the West, is the most important issue
of what has been said. Their association with certain geo-
graphical areas has not the same importance. The theory
was used. by each author in his own, way. The Arab geogra-
phers of later times, as Prof, Pelliot has shown, did the same
thing. Two important texts have been cited by Prof. Pelliot
in this respect, In a text dated 851 attributed to one Sulayman
the following statement occurs: ;

“The people of India and China are of unanimous
opinion regarding the fact that the (great) kings of the earth
are four in number. The foremost of the four kings accord-
ing to them is the king of the Arabs (i.e. the Khalif of
Baghdad), The Indians and the Chinese agree without
any contradiction as to the fact that the king of the Arabs
is the greatest of kings, the richest and the most magni-
ficent. He is the king of the great religion (Islam) above
which there is none. The king ef China places himself in
the second rank after the king of the Arabs. Next come
the king of Rum (Byzantium) and the Ballahra (Vallabha-
raja or the Calukya king).”’

The other text is the account of a conversation of Ibn
Wahab with the Emperor of China. Ibn Wahab was grant-
ed an audience by the Emperor sometime between 872 and
875. The account which is of the beginning of the 10th
century, runs as follows:

‘The king (i.e. the Emperor of China) then asked. How
do you classify the kings (of the earth). The king told the
interpreter. ‘Tell Ibm Wahab that we, Chinese, we count
five kings. He who possesses the richest kingdom is the
TWELVE YEARS OF WANDERING LIFE OF BUDDHA 3

king of Irak, because Irak is in the centre of the world and
other kingdoms surround it. In China one calls him the
king of kings. After him comes the king of China whom
we call the king of men because there is no other king who
can establish the basis of peace better or maintain the order
better than what we do in our own country. There is no
other king of whom the subjects are more loyal to the king
than ours. This is the reason why the king of China is
called the king of men. Then comes the king of ferocious
beasts: this is the king of the Turks (of Toguz-Oguz) who
is our neighbour. Then comes the king of elephants i.e. the
king of India. He is also called in China the king of wisdom
because wisdom is native in India. Last comes the king of
Rum (Byzantium) whom we call the king of fine men.”
These two pasages clearly show that the Arab travellers
algsu had, access to the old theory of the four sovereigns and
that they were making use of it to their owm advantage—
giving the highest place to their own ruler in the list. The
Arab travellers might have picked it up in India, But a
more possible source of derivation was the Buddhist lore
which was carried to Baghdad between 786 and 808 A.D. by
the Barmakide converts of Balkh (Sachau, Alberuni, p. xxxi).
But the theory whether picked up in India or, not was
long current in India, Prof. Pelliot has referred to a
traditicn current in India and recorded by both Burnouf and
Lassen. The tradition says that after the fall of the Pandavas
India was divided amongst four kings: Narapati, Gajapati,
Chatrapati, and Aégvapati. In the Ain-i-Akbari there is a
description of the play of cards which are connected with
twelve kings. The first three are Aévapati, Gajapati and
Narapati. The fourth is the gadhpati which certainly means
the lord of forts (Hindi—gadh). The fifth is the dhanapati
(the lord of treasures—the same as the earlier ratnapatt).
There is no mention of Chatrapati. Lastly Prof. Pelliot
refers to a traditional list of kinge given to Buchanan in 1807
which mentions Yudhisthira Vikramaditya, Salivahana,
Bhoja, then three kings, and then tradition says ‘After this
24 P. C. BAGCHI

Naraputti, Gajaputti and Ashaputti, three thrones were esta-
blished.’’ The list communicated to Buchanan seems to
have been a traditional Rajavaméa similar to what is incorpo-
rated in the Tantras. I have recently discussed one such Raja-
vaméa(A new source of the political history of Kamaripa,
Ind, Hist. Quarterly, XVIII, pp. 230 ff.) entitled Haragauri-
samvada. This list while speaking of the kings of the Kali
age mentions Yudhisthira, the Nandas, the Gautamas, the
Mayuras (Mauryas), the Pandavas (>), the’ Sakas, Vikra-
maditya and Bhoja. The list then says that with Bhoja the
line of Kegatriya rulers who were entitled to be Cakravarti
came to an end. This may have some historical signifi-
cance. King Bhoja was the founder of the Gurjara-Pratihara.
Empire and had some claim to paramountcy. We shall see
later on that the inscriptions of the rulers belonging to some
of the petty dynasties which succeeded the Gurjara- Pratiharas
mention for the first time the three types of rulers—Aé$vapati,
Narapati and Gajapati.

It is quite clear that the later Indian tradition has reduced
the number of four sovereigns to three—Aévapati, Gajapati
and Narapati. Ratnapati although found in the Ain-i-Akbari
under the name Dhanapati has been omitted probably because
it did not correspond to anything known. But the number
had been so reduced stil] earlier. Of all the Indian inscrip-
tions only the later records of eleventh and twelfth centuries
mention the three lords, Agvapati, Gajapati and Narapati.
We know that after the Mahomedan conquest of North
Bengal the successors of Laksmanasena continued to rule
as independent kings from Vikrampur (Dacca). Two of these
rulers KeSavasena and Visvariipasena who were ruling to-
wards the end of the twelfth and the beginning of the thir-
teenth centuries call themselves “‘Lord of the three kings’’—
Aévapati, Gajapati and Narapati—asvapati- gajapati-narapati-
rajatrayadhipati (N. Majumdar, Inscriptions of Bengal,
Varendra Research Society Publication, pp. 136, 145).
Amongst other ruling dynasties of North India the
Gahadavalas, the Haihayas and the Candellas use the same
TWELVE YEARS OF WANDERING LIFE OF BUDDHA as

titles in this period. Govindacandra, Jsyacandra and
Harigcandra of the Gahadavala dynasty, who ruled in the
12th century, call themselves overlord of Asvapati-Gajapati-
Narapati. Some of the Haihaya rulers, specially Karna and
his successor who ruled in the latter part of the 11th and in
the 12th centuries call themselves—nija-bhujopdarajit-A svapati-
Gajapati—Narapati-raja-trayadhipati. The Candella Trailok-
yamalla who ruled in the 13th century use the same title
—nija-bhujoparjit...... raja-trayddhipati (See H. C. Ray—
Dynastic History of Northern India, |, pp. 519, 532, 541. ete.
and Il, pp. 724-725, 784, 785, etc.). They do not mean
three particular rulers but only three kinds of rulers, No
_importance can be attached to the usual claim made by
these petty rulers of the most ignominious period of Indian
history to overlordship of the three kinds of rulers. It how-
ever shows that the tradition was still alive, that paramount
sovereignty (cakravartin) implied mastery over the three
kinds of rulers—Aévapati, Gajapati and Narapati. The
fourth in the list (Ratnapati) had been dropped. The
Sabdakalpadruma (sub. verb. cakra) gives a description of
different kinds of forts (koftta) after a source entitled
Semayadmrta and in that connection it mentions different
kinds of rulers like the lords of Gaja, Agva arid Ratha, the
Samanta, the Mandaleévara etc. (gaja$va-ratha-bhapalah
samantah mandalesvarah). In this text also gajapati, aSvapati,
rathapati are taken as different types of rulers.

It is the same old theory of the four sovereigns bereft of
its geographical association, The geographical association
was a new accretion in every age: with the author of the
She eul yeu king it is India, China, Yue-che country and the
Roman Orient; with Tao-siuan it is China, India, Persia and
T’u-kiue and with the Arabs it is either Irak, China, Rum
(Byzantium) and India or Irak, China, India, (Toguz-Oguz)
and Rum. But Hiuan-tsang more faithful to Indian tradition
mentions only South. (Gajapati), North (Aévapati), East
(Narapati) and West (Ratnapati), The tradition survived in
India in a slightly modified form up to later times.
26 P. C. BAGCHI

Ill

What was then the origin of the theory of four
sovereigns? It had apparently nothing to do with four tra-
ditional divisions of the army: hasti, agva, ratha and patti
i.e. elephant, horse, chariot and infantry (Cf. Mahdvyut-
patti—Sakaki, p. 252), This fourfold army (caturanga-
balakaya) is always associated with any king whatsoever
and we do not hear of kings possessing only one of these
divisions. The Aévapati, Pilupati, and Narapati i.e. master
of men (officer in charge of the subjects) are also mentioned
in the Mahdavyutpatti (ibid., pp. 256-257) but they are
merely officers of the king. None of them represents a parti-
cular type of ruler, ,

We have seen that the theory of the four sovereigns is
intimately connected with the conception of the Cakravartin
ruler. In the golden age the Cakravartin was a ruler of the
four mythical worlds of the Buddhist cosmography—(Uttara)-
Kuru, (Purva)-Videha, Godaniya and Jambudvipa. Through
gradual decay of power the Cakravartin came to be the ruler
of one world only, namely the Jambudvipa. The Cakra-
vartin ruler of Jambudvipa was also the overlord of the
four types of kings: Aévapati, Gajapati, Narapati and
Ratnapati. With the disappearance of the last Cakravartin
the sovereignty of Jambudvipa was divided amongst these
four types of rulers. In later traditions Chatrapati replaces
the Ratnapati but that also is soon dropped from the list;
only the first three remains: Aégvapati, Gajapati, and Nara-
pati, Even the vainglorious rulers of the Sena dynasty of
Bengal and a few other minor dynasties of Northern India
in order to establish a claim to the position of Cakravartin
call themselves the overlords of the three kinds of kings.

Therefore according to the old theory @ Cakravartin was
the overlord of the four kinds of kings: Aévapati, Gajapati,
Narapati and Ratnapati. The ancient Buddhist texts men-
tion amongst other requisite possessions of a Cakravartin
the seven treasures (sapta-ratndni), These seven treasures
are: Cakra, Hasti, Aégva,”° Mani, Sti, Grhapati, and Pari-
TWELVE YEARS OF WANDERING LIFE OF BUDDHA 27

nayaka (Mahdvyutpatti, p. 251). The first four help the king
to establish his supremacy quickly over the whole earth up
to the furthest limit of the horizon (cakravdla’. They are of
divine origin. But the rext three Stri, Grhapati and Pari-
nayaka are of human origin. Grhapati is a householder.
That is the meaning attached to it in the Mahdavyutpatti
(Tib, khyim bdag). Parindyaka means a minister (Tib. blon
po). But in the Pali texts (Mahdsudassana-sutta. Digha
Nikaya—Dialogues of Buddha, vol. Il) Gahapati is interpreted
as a treasurer and Parinayaka as an adviser. Whatever may
be their real significance, the last three treasures of the
sapta-ratna viz., Stri, Grhapati and Parinayaka are of human
origin and the master of these three may be simply styled
a Narapati. But it is not still clear if this conception of
seven treasures essential for a king to rise to the position of a
Cakravartin had anything to do with the old theory of the
four sovereigns. All the elements of the theory are there:
the best of horses (Agva-ratna}, the best of elephants (Hasti-
ratna), the best of gems (Mani-ratna) and the best of human
beings associated with him in three essential capacities as
wife, treasurer and minister (stri, grhapati, and parinayaka).
Agvapati, Gajapati etc, may also be interpreted in these
senses i.e, not as the Lord of Horse, Lord of Elephant etc.
but as the king of horses, the king of elephants, etc.
However in the oldest source, the She eul yeu king in
which this theory of four sovereigns is found for the first
time, the theory is formulated in a different way. The four
Lords: Aégvapati etc. are so many sovereign rulers con-
nected with the four quarters: North, South, West and
East. This seems to be an elaboration of another aspect of
the Cakravartin. A Cakravartin is one who is “‘the Lord of
the Four Quarters’’ (Digha Nikaya, loc. cit.}. His sovereignty
extends in every direction up to the very end of the Cakra-
vala. But with the disappearance of a Cakravartin the rulers’
of the four quarters become independent. An Indian
author of the Kushan period would naturally be tempted to
elaborate this theory further im the light of the geographical
28 P. C. BAGCHI

knowledge possessed by him. The kings of the four
quarters according to the old theory were connected with
the essential requisites of the Cakravartin, agva, gaja, mani
and nara. In the north and the north-west the Yue-che and
other Central Asian nomads were famous in India as horse-
breeders. The Kamboja horse imported from the _ north-
west was known to be the best. The sea-route conmecting
Western India with the Graeco-Roman world was being
frequently used by the Greek sailors and the wealth of the
Roman Empire (Ta-ts’'in) was soon becoming proverbial.
Southern India was famous for its elephants. The Chinese
Empire in the East with its vast agglomeration of human
races was known for its general prosperity, The compiler
of the She eul yeu king must have belonged to Kashmir or
at any rate to North-Western India.

A similar information which a Chinese traveller named
K'ang-t’ai picked up in Further India (Fu-nan) from Indian
sources in the middle of the third century A.D. (Pelliot,
BEFEO., ill, 275-276)—‘‘It is said in the foreign countries
that there are three abundances under the sky: the
abundance of men in China, the abundance of gems
in Ta-ts’in, the abundance of horses in the Yue-che
country." He had not either heard anything about the
abundance of elephants in Southern India or attached
any special importance to it as elephants were equally
abundant in Further India. Hence it is the question
of this abundance which guided the unknown compiler of
the She eul yeu king while he was altering the old theory in
the light of things known to him. The idea of two abun-
dances at least continued to be proverbial in India for a
long time. JSanavarman, the Maukhari king of the 6th
century while carrying on military campaign in different
directions speaks of having defeated the Andhras ‘‘who had
thousands of three-fold rutting elephants’’ and the Siilikas
who had ‘‘a cavalry of countless galloping horses’’ (Basak—
History of North-Eastern India, p. 111). The Silikas whom
] have shown to be the Sogdian immigrants to India must
TWELVE YEARS OF WANDERING LIFE OF BUDDHA 29

have belonged to the mass of Central Asian nomads settled
in the North-West of India. (Salika, Culika and Culika-
Paisaci—Journal of Letters, vol. xxi).

It may not be out of place to point out that the associa-
tion of Aévapati with the North-West of India is very old.
The name Aévapati is associated in the Epics with two
countries in the North-West, Kekaya and Madra. An
_ Aévapati of Kaikeya is mentioned in the Satapatha Brahmana
and the Chdndogya Upanisad. He was contemporaneous
with king Janaka of Mithila. The same name Aévapati,
is borne by the maternal uncle of Bharata (Ramayana Il, 9.
22 etc.: H. C. Raychaudhuri, Political History of Ancient
India, 2nd ed., p. 36). In the Mahabharata the name is
‘associated with the Madra country. Dr, Raychaudhuri
has shown on the evidence available in the epics that the
two countries were contiguous,—Kekaya was between
Gandhara and the Beas and Madra, between the Beas. and
the Travati. The city of Sakala belonged to the latter
country. It is stated in the Mahabharata (Vana, 292) that king
Aégvapati of Madra was the father of Savitri. It is not likely
that in all these cases Agvapati has been used as a proper
name. King Salya of Madra fought on the side of the Kurus
in the Mahabharata war. When Karna assumed the control ,
of the Kuru army he was selected as his charioteer on
account of his special knowledge of horses. His know!edge
of horses it is said, was greater than that of Matali, the
charioteer of Indra. He knew the nature of horses
(aSvahrdaya) well and was am expert in the treatment of the
horses (Mahabharata, Karna, 32, verses 60-61; 35, verses
4ff.). Nakula, the fourth Pandava, who was a direct nephew
of Salya also knew the same art and by virtue of it assumed
the control of king Virat’s stable during one year of their
incognito life (Virat, II, verse, 2); King Salya is described
in the Adiparva (107, verse 3) as Bdalhika-pungava, the
best man amongst the Balhikas. The northern Punjab to
which Madra country belonged. is also called Bahika, pro-
bably a corrupt form of the same name Balhika, in the
30 P. C. BAGCHI

Mahabharata (Karna, 44) and the tribes living in that part of
the country are decried for their bad manners, The Central
Asian nomads had already come up to the Punjab before
the Mahabharata had passed through the final stage of its
development.

Lastly two inscriptional evidences of a later period pro-
bably bear out the same association of Agvapati with the
Madra country in the Punjab. The first is the Udayagiri
Inscription of the Gupta Era 108 (426 A.D.) of the time of
Kumaragupta (Fleet, Corpus, p, 258). It records the pious gift
of a Jaina teacher named Acdrya Goéarman. He was the
son of the Agvapati, a soldier named Sanghila, who was
born “‘in, the region of the north, the best of countries which
resembles the land of Northern Kurus (in beatitude}.’’ The
Northern Kuru country was compared only with the
Northern Madra country in ancient times. It therefore seems
that there is an allusion to the Madra country and its rulers
who bore the title of Agvapati. In the Haraha Inscription
of the sixth century the Maukhari kings also claim descent
from Aévapati of the solar race. This, according to certain
scholars, suggests early relation of the Maukharis with the
Madras of the Punjab (Sen—Some Historical Aspects of the
Inscriptions of Bengal, p. 241).
She Eul Yeu King

“Sitra spoken by Buddha on the twelve f[years’]
wanderings’ translated by Sha-men Kalodaka of the Western
country (Si-yu}—under the Eastern Tsin dynasty; Taisho ed.
no. 195.

{ l. ]

In the A-seng-k'i (asarnkheya) Lalpa the Bodhisattva was
the king of a country. His father and mother died early.
He gave the kingdom to his younger brother. After giving |
‘up the kingdom he travelled seeking to Jearn the law. (While
thus travelling) he saw from a distance a Brahmin of the
K’iu-tan (Gautama) family. He then followed the Brahmin
to learn the law (from him). The Brahmin told «he Bodhi-
sattva: ‘Think of the royal dress on your body, You will
have to put on a dress made of matted hairs like that of
mine which I[ got from the Gautama family."” The Bodhi-
sattva then got a garment like that to cover his body and
thus became one of the Gautama family.

Then after purifying himself he entered the deep moun-
tainous forest and sat on the peak of a hill absorbed in the
meditation of the law. The Brahmin them said: ‘You
were a king. You were respected and you lived in happi-.
ness. Now you will have to submit to pains.”

So in the summer he had to drink water and eat only
fruits and melons. In the winter he returned to the city
and at the cross roads begged for his food. Then he came
back underneath the tree to practise meditation with an
undisturbed mind. Once while the Bodhisattva came back
to his country to beg for food the king of the country down
to his people could not’ recognise him, He had become a
small Gautama. The Bodhisattva stayed in the mangoe
(kan-ko) garden outside the city, A’ vihara (king-she) was
erected there. Inside it there was only one seat.

There were then five hundred notorious thieves in that
country. They had stolen the things of the royal officers
32 ‘  -P, C. BAGCHI

and were running away. They were passing by the vihara
of the Bodhisattva. They then left their foot marks there
and also abandoned the (stolen) things on either side of the
vihara.

The next day the people came out in search of the
thieves and by following their foot marks came up to the
vihara of the Bodhisattva. They arrested the Bodhisattva
and questioned him for information on the notorious thieves.
They had committed theft many times. The punishment
was more than death. The king ordered the ministers to
give him an exemplary punishment, As the law in regard
to such men was to put them on. the stake so the Bodhi-
sattva also was put on the stake. His body was bleeding
and the blood was flowing down to the ground. )

Maha-Gautama saw it with his heavenly eyes from his
place in the depth of the mountain. Then by using his
magical power (rddhipada) he came down flying through
the sky and asked the Bodhisattva: ‘‘What sin have you
committed, my child, so that you are suffering such torture?
There is no boil (on your body) but you are still bearing the
pain of the poison in this way.” The Bodhisattva replied:
“The pain is external but the mind within is full of mercy.
I do not know what sin I] have committed to be exposed
suddenly. to such torture."’ Maha-Gautama said: ‘You
have neither any son nor any disciple (lit. family). Who
will be your descendant? Who is to bear such kind of
pain patiently? The Bodhisattva answered: ‘Life is
momentary. Why do you speak of sons and grandsons?’’

At that time the king ordered his men on the left and the
right to get a stone bow and arrow. On getting it the king
shot at the Bodhisattva and killed thim. Maha-Gautama
was much aggrieved and wept. He then took down the
dead body and buried it. He collected blood from the
mud both from the right side and the left and made them
into balls. He then returned to his monastery in the
mountain, put the blood taken from the left side in a vessel
on the left side and that taken from the right side in a vessel
TWELVE YEARS OF WANDERING LIFE OF BUDDHA 33

on the right. Then Maha-Gautama said: ‘‘If it is true that
you were a great master of the law (tao-she) then the gods
of the heavens should make a man of the blood.”’ After
ten months the blood on the left side became a man and
that on the right side a woman. The first was called Sho

Mh,

yi jen.

f iW. J

At the beginning of the Bhadrakalpa the Precious
Tathagata She-kia (Sakya) lived 5000000 years. The next
twenty five kings each lived 3000000 years. Then the king
_Wen-t’o-kie ( 3¢PEH§ ) lived 1000000 years. Then the Ksatriya
Che-kia-yue (Cakravarti) kings and the kings of the left
flank and those of the right flank all lived 100000 years
each. Since the time of the king called Kuan-hi (Harsa)
all kings lived 84000 years each. Guided by a bad thought
the Cakravarti (Che-kia-yue) king sacrificed an ox and for
causing this harm to life lost his Golden Wheel, got the
Silver Wheel and the mastery over the three heavens only.
He lived only 10000 years. The king Firm-Thought (Drdha-
citta) used armour and lived 5000 years only. He got the
Copper Wheel, ruled over two heavens and was the lord
of the West and the South only. After that the king Easy-
killing (Sukhaghna) lived 2500 years, got the Iron Wheel and
was the ruler of the Southern heaven only. The last king
had five princes who by causing harm to living beings
shortened their life to 1000 years. In old times there were
only nine kinds of pains from disease, cold, heat, thirst,
hunger, birth, old age, sickness and death. Since the
Brahmins began to sacrifice living beings 404 kinds of diseases
originated.

From the time of king Simhacitta man’s life was reduced
to 120 years. After king Sirnhacitta there were 84 kings
beginning with Simhamati, all having short lives, In their
times human life was gradually reduced to 80, 70, 50, 30,
20 and 10 years.
34 P. C. BAGCHI

Afterwards there was a king called Simhajiva-ratha who
was also called Suddhodana (lit. Suddha). He was the
father of the Bodhisattva. From the beginning up to the
end of the Bodhisattva’s life it is 84000 years. The king
Che-kia-yue (Cakravarti) was of the Gautama race, It was
a pure and perfect race.

The Bodhisattva was in the T’eu-shu (Tusita) heaven.
When he wished to descend on the earth he looked around
to find out the country where he could take his birth. He
said: “It is the family of king Suddhodana where | can
incarnate myself."" There was then in the heaven a tree
called T'’eu-tan (Devadaru). The Bodhisattva however sat
under a different tree and was absorbed in thought. The
first tree then emitted a light which knew no change. At
that time a heavenly being asked: ‘Why did the Bodhi-
sattva give up the first tree and come to sit under the other
tree?’’ A devaputra understood the mind of the Bodhi-
sattva. He replied: ‘‘Do you not know? The Bodhisattva
now wishes to go down to the Yen-feu-li (Jambudvipa) and is
looking around to see in which kingdom he would take
birth. He will be born in the family of Suddhodana.”’

All the Gods then said: “‘The Bodhisattva is now going
down to take birth on the earth. What shall we offer him?”
They then thought over it and said: ‘In the bright heaven
there are 404 and sundry other gems, each of them having
a (separate) name. There are also precious flowers. A
chariot can be made for him with them."" The White Ele-
phant named Yi-lo-man (Airavata), the Naga king, will
draw it. His hairs are whiter than the snowy mountains.
He has 33 heads. Each head has 7 trunks, each of which
contains a lake. In each lake there are 7 Yu-po (utpala)
flowers. Upon each flower there is a beautiful girl.”

The Bodhisattva came down riding on the precious
chariot along with 84000 devaputras. The car was drawn
by the White Elephant. At that time the queen of king
Suddhodana had the dream of a white elephant. She was
taken by fright and spoke about it to the king.
TWELVE YEARS OF WANDERING LIFE OF BUDDHA 35

{| HI. J

The father of the Bodhisattva was called Suddhodana.
His father (and three uncles) were four brothers. King
Suddhodana had two sons.—the elder was Si-ta (Sid-
dhartha), the younger Nan-t’o (Nanda). The name of the
Bodhisattva’s mother was Mo-ye (Maya). The name of
Nanda’s mother was Kiu-tan-mi (Gautami). The eldest
uncle of the Bodhisattva was Amrtodana. The latter had
two sons—the elder was named T’e-ta (Devadatta) and the
younger A-nan (Ananda). The second (middle) uncle of the
Bodhisattva was called king Suklodana. He had two sons—
the elder was called She Mo-na (SAakya Mahanaman) and the
younger A-na-liu (Aniruddha). The name of the youngest
uncle of the Bodhisattva was king Sukrodana. He had two
sons, the elder was called. She-kia wang (Sakyaraja >?) and
the younger She sha wang (?).

In the kingdom of Kia-wei-lo-yue (Kapilavastu) there
were § cities and 900,0000 houses. Devadatta was born
on the 7th day of the 4th month. Buddha was born on the
8th day of the 4th month, Buddha’s younger brother Nanda
on the 9th day of the 4th month and Ananda on the [0th
day of the 4th month. The height of Devadatta’s body
was 15 ft. 4 inches that of Buddha’s body 16 ft., that of
Nanda’s body 15 ft. 4 inches, that of Ananda’s body 15 ft.
3 inches and that of the body of persons belonging to the
Sho-yi family 14 ft. The height of the body of other people
in the country was [3 ft.

The relatives of the Bodhisattva lived 800 li outside the
city. The Gautama clan was a small ruling clan ruling
over 1000000 houses. They were also called kings of
100000 (laksapati), The family of the Bodhisattva’s wife
was also called Gautama. The chief of the Sho-yi family
was Shuei-kuang (Jalaprabha). His wife’s mother was named
Yue-niu (Candrakumari). She belonged to a city near the
frontier. The time when the girl was born the sun had
nearly set. But inside the house everything was bright. So
the girl was given the name Kiu-yi (Gopi) which means
36 P. G. BAGCHI

‘Bright Girl’’ (Ming-niu). Gopi was the first wife of the
Prince. Her father was the Elder Jalaprabha. The second
wife of the Prince gave birth to Lo-yu (Rahula). She was
called Ye-wei-t’an (Yagodhara). Her father was the Elder
Ye-she (Yaga). His third wife was La-yi (Mrgaja). Her
father was the Elder She (Sakya). So the Prince had three
wives. His royal father had got built for him three palaces
suitable for three seasons. There were 20000 dancing girls
in each of the palaces. In the three palaces there were in
all 60000 dancing girls. The Prince was to be a Che-kia-yue
(Cakravarti) king and hence 60000 dancing girls were placed
in his palace.

{ IV. ]

Buddha left the house in his 29th year. He attained
the Bodhi (tao) in his 35th year. From the 8th day of the
4th month till the [5th day of the 7th month he remained
seated under the tree. This was the first year.

in the second year he preached the law to A-jo-kiu
(Ajfiata Kaundinya) and his other friends in the Deer Park.
He then expleined the law to Pi-p’o-tan and others. He
then preached the Jaw to 17 men, Kia-che-lo and others. He
also explained the law to the Elder Ta-tsai (Mahabala?),
Eul-tsai-nien (Dvi-bala-citta >»), Yiu-po-yi (Upaka) and Cheng-
nien {Samyak-smrti), the Ni-kien (Nirgrantha), Later on he
spoke the law to 42 men inchiding Ti-ho-kie-lo-fo (Dipam-
kara-Buddha).

in the third year he preached the law to three disciples
of Kia-ye (Kaéyapa) and to a community of 1000 Bhiksus,

In the fourth year he preached the law to the Nagas,
Pretas and demi-gods on the Siang-t’'eu (Gajaéirga)
mountain.

In the fifth year he preached the law to Sse-ho-mei in the
Bamboo grove. In the fifth year while he was on his way
to Sho-wei (Sravasti) the Brahmin Sbe-li-fo (Sariputra) was
waiting amder a tree with 125 disciples. At that time Mu-
lien (Maudgalyayana) who was a general in the country of
TWELVE YEARS OF WANDERING LIFE OF BUDDHA 37

Mi-yi-lo (Mithila >) while passing by that way saw Sariputra
waiting under the tree. He asked Sariputra why he was
waiting there. Sariputra replied: ‘‘I. wish tc learn the law
(tao)."’ Maudgalyayana replied: ‘I shall be also your
companion.’” So saying he sent away 100 soldiers. — Only
125 remained with him. Thus the two had with them
altogether 250 men.

While Sariputra was entering the city for fen-wei {pinda-
pata) he met with a disciple of Buddha, the Bhikgu Ma-she
(Aévajit). Sariputra enquired from him who was his relli-
gious teacher, as his dress was not the same (as his). The
Bhiksu Aégvajit replied: ‘‘I am the disciple of Buddha.”’
Sariputra. asked: ‘“What law ‘does Buddha speak >”
A&vajit replied: ‘‘According to Buddha all dharma has a
cause. (He also speaks on) its destruction, on the extinction
of all pains and on nirvana."" When Sariputra received
from him the law of Siu-t’o-yuan (Srotapanna) he felt very
happy, came back te Maudgalyayana and said: ‘‘There is
a godly man in the world.’* Maudgalyayana asked: ‘Who
has spoken the law to you?’’ Sariputra then gave him the
whole account. Maudgalyayana then wanted to get the law
of Srotapanna. The two men then went to Buddha with the
disciple of Buddha.

Before they had come up to Buddha, Buddha came to
know about it and told the Bhiksus: ‘““Two learned men
are coming to-day, one is the Bhikgu Che hui (Prajfiamati)
and the other Shen-tsiu (Rddhipada)."” When they arrived
Buddha spoke to them on the four ‘truths (arya-satyani).
Sariputra became an Arhat in 7 days while Maudgalyayana
became an Arhat in 15 days.

In the sixth year Siu-ta and Prince Che-t’o (Jeta) built for
Buddha a Vihadra, 12 pagodas (Fo t’u sse), 72 halis, 3600
rooms and 500 towers.

In the 7th year in the country of Kiu-ye-ni (>) Buddha
met with eight men, the Bodhisattva So-t’o-ho and others
and communicated to them the Pan cheu king.

In the eighth year while staying on the mountain Liu he
38 P. C. BAGCHI

made a disciple of the king Chen-t’o-lo (Candra) and spoke
the law.

In the ninth year he spoke the law to T’o-kiu-mo inside
the lake Wei.

In the tenth year he returned to the country of Mo-kie
(Magadha) and spoke the law to king Fo-kia-sha.

In the tenth year under the fearful (Bhayamkara ) tree
he spoke on the past life to Mi-lei (Maitreya).

In the twelfth year while returning to his father’s country
he met the members of the Sakya family at a distance of
80 li from the city and spoke the law to Ch’a-mo-kie, On
returning to his country he spoke the law to his father and
members of the Sadkya family and thus saved 84000 men.
They got the law of Siu-t’o-yuan (Srotapanna).

The fourteen countries in which Buddha travelled for
twelve years, converted people and spoke the law were the
following :

The king Po-sse-jo......... in Chinese ho yue
Kia-wei-lo-yue in Chinese miao to
Sho-wei country in Chinese wu wu pu yu
Wei-ye-li country in Chinese kuang ta

another name is tu sheng sse (saving from birth

and death)
Lo-yue-ki............ in Chinese the city of wang she.
Kiu-leu country......... in Chinese che she country,

Po-lo-nai country in Chinese lu ye -(Deer-Park)
—these are otherwise known as ‘‘All
Buddha countries.”’

i Vv. ]

In the Yen-feu-t'i (Jambudvipa) there are sixteen large
kingdoms and 84000 cities. There are eight kings and
four devaputras. In the East there is the Devaputra of the
Tsin (China). The people are prosperous there. In the
South there is the Devaputra of the country of T’ien-chu
(India). The land is much noted for its elephants. In the
West there is the Devaputra of Ta-ts’in country (Roman
TWELVE YEARS OF WANDERING LIFE OF BUDDHA 39

Orient). That country produces gold, silver, gems and jade.
In the North-West there is the Devaputra of the Yue-che.
Their country produces many good horses.

There are 84000 cities in the centre (of the Jambudvipa),
6400 races of men; the trees are of 10000 varieties and
grasses of 8000 kinds. Varieties of herbs are 740. The
scents are of 43 kinds, gems of 12! kinds, and real gems of
7 kinds.

In the ocean there are 2500 kingdoms. In 180 kingdoms
the people live on 5 cereals. In 330 kingdoms they eat
fish, sweet tortoise, tortoise of the land and crocodile. There
are five kings, each king governing 500 cities. The first
king is that of Sse-li, All the people of that country worship
Buddha. They do not worship any other god. The name
of the second king is Kia-lo. His country produces seven
jewels. The name of the third king is Pu-lo. His country
produces 42 kinds of incense and white leu-li (vaidurya). The
name of the fourth king is Sho-ye. His country produces
pi-pa (pippala, and pepper). The name of the fifth king is
Na-ngo. His country produces pearl and seven coloured leu-li
(vaidurya), The people of these five great countries are
black and short-statured. The distance between them is
65000 li. From these countries up to the end (of the Jambu-
dvipa) there lies the ocean and no people live there. From
there up to the Iron Hills it is 140000 li.

* * * * *

[The kingdom of Kiu-yi-na-kie (Kuéinagara) is 1000 li to
the south-east of the kingdom of Kia-wei-lo (Kapila-
vastu). The kingdom of Wang sho (Rajagrha) is 2200 li to
the south-east of the kingdom of Kia-wei-lo-wei (Kapila-
vastu). The place where the Buddha discovered the path
(Gaya) is 200 li to the south-east of the city of Wang sho
(Rajagrha), The kingdom of Wei-ye-li (Vaiéali) is 1800 li
to the east of Kia-(wei)-lo-wei (Kapilavastu). The garden
of Amrapali is 3 li to the south of the town of Wei-ye-li
(Vaiéali), to the west of the high road. The kingdom of
Ye-po (Campa?) is 1280 li to the east of the kingdom of
40 P. C. BAGCHI |

Kia-wei-lo-wei (Kapilavastu). The kingdom of Nan (Pundra-
vardhana) is 3200 li to the east of the kingdom of Kapilavastu.
The kingdom of Sho-wei (Sravasti) is 500 li to the west of
the kingdom of Kapilavastu. The kingdom of Po-lo-nai
(Varanasi) is 960 li to the west of the kingdom of Kapila-
vastu. The place where Buddha turned the wheel of the
law (Deer Park) is 20 li to the south of the kingdom of
Varanasi. The kingdom of Po-lo-nai-sse (Varanasi) is 1400
li to the south of the kingdom of Sho-wei (Sravasti). The
river Heng (Ganga) flows south-east through that country.
The mount Ki-sho-kiu (Grdhrakiita) has five peaks. The
place where Buddha recited the sacred texts is the central
peak of the hill.] ;

Note: The last paragraph placed within square brackets
is found in the quotation in the King liu yi siang to which
we have already referred, The preceding paragraph is found
in the She eul yeu king as well as in the said quotation of
the King liu yi siang. There is some difference between the
two texts in regard to this paragraph: instead of 330 the
King lia has 2320, instead of ‘“42 kinds of incense”
the King lia gives ‘°43 kinds ......... * and for Na-ngo
the King liu gives Na-p’o.

The five geographical names Sse-li, Kia-lo, Sho-ye and
Na-ngo (var, Na-p’o) have been commented on by Prof.
Lévi (Pour l'histoire du Ramdyana, p. 83). He refers to the
Fan fan yu, a Chinese compilation ,of the 6th century, in
which these names have been explained after a Siitra which
is now lost. According to it Kia-lo means black (Kala),
Pu-lo, *‘city’’ (Pura) and Sho-ye, “‘victory”” (Jaya), Of these
Prof, Lévi has suggested a definite identification only for one
—Sho-ye. He would identify it with Java. But the transla-
tion of the name as “‘victory’’ (Jaya) suggests a connection
of the name not with Java but with Srivijaya. In fact M.
Ferrand has proposed this identification (L’Empire Sumatra-
nais de Srivijaya, tirage, p. 154), The only difficulty in
accepting it lies in the fact that there is no other record to
TWELVE YEARS OF WANDERING LIFE OF BUDDHA 4

prove the existence of the name as early as the 3rd century
A.D. when the She eul yeu king was translated for the first
time. Whatever may be the definite identification it is
quite clear that Sho-ye must be located in the Java-Sumatra
group. Amongst the other names Sse-li *Sie-lji is certainly
an old transcription of a name like Stha-dip (Simnhala-dvipa).
This value of li is also found in Yen-feu-li (Jambudvipa).
The explanation of the two names Kia-lo and Pu-lo in the
Fan fan yu as “‘black’’ (Kala) and “‘city”’ (pura) seems to be
fanciful. Kia-lo, on the contrary, reminds us of later Kia-lo-
hi (Grahi); Pu-lo restored as Pura would be meaningless as
the name of an island. It may be the Indonesian word Pulo-
. Pulau which means ‘island’ and is used with names of differ-
ent islands (cf. Pulo Condore, Pulo Penang etc.). Na-ngo
seems to be the correct name and not Na-p’o. It may be res-
tored as Nagna—the island of the naked people. Such a
name is given by Yi-tsing to the Nicobar Isles (Records,

p. 68).

THE CHINESE INDEX

In the following index I have given the transcription
of the important names. I have also stated the old pro-
nunciation of the characters according to the Analytical
Dictionary of Karlgren. This Dictionary as is well known
gives the pronunciation of about the 6th century A.D.
Through it we can get an idea of the pronunciation of
a still earlier periods. The transcriptions contained in the
She eul yeu king belong to the 4th century A.D..

In the index some of the common characters which
occur too often such as ?’o fE, lo #, kie i} and mo J have
been indicated by the numbers [1] [2} [3] and [4]
respectively.

A-jo-kiu [J 34 #y *a4-nziak-kiu=Ajiiana-Kaundinya

A-na-liu—# @# *4-na-liuét= Aniruddha

A-nan—# *“a-nin=Ananda

Ch’a-mo-kie # [4] [3] *té’a-mua-g’idt = Sumagadha(?)

Che-kia-yue $6 Wt RR *t’sia-ka-ji”et = Cakravarti

6 .
P. C. BAGCHI

Che-t’o g& {1] *t’Sie-da=Jeta

Chen-t’o-lo #& [1] [2] *téien-d’4-la=Candra

Fo-kia-sha # WW “piust-ka-sa= Pukkusa

Kia-cha-lo— # [2] *ka-t’éia-la

Kia-lo [2] *ka-la= Kala (?Grahi)

Kia-wei-lo-yue~—#— [2] BA *ka-wi-l4-i"dit=Kapilavastu

Kia-ye—3& *ka-iip = Kaéyapa

Kiu-t’an-mi @ 9 *kiu-d’an-mjie~Gautami

Kiueyi— *kiu-.i= Gopi

Kiu-ye-ni #9 3B fe *Kiu-(z)ia-nji= Kudinagara

Kiu-lin 4 & *‘kieu-liou= Kuru

Liu # *lieu? .

Lo-yue-k'i- {2] B87 *1a-i"at-p’jie=*Rayagiha<Rajagrha-

Lo-yu [2] % *la-giuen <Laghula?<Rahula

Mi yi-lo #@ VS [2] *mjie-,i-la= Mithila?

Mi-lei—#  *mjie-lek = Maitrak? = Maitreya

Mo-kie {4] [8] *mua-giat=Magadha

Mu-lien 9 3 *miuk- liin =Mogallana<Maudgalyiyana

Na-ngo #§ #{ *na-ngek=Nogna

Nan-t’o # [1] *nan -da=Nanda

Pi-p’o.tan 9A YE BE pidt-b’ua-.tamP

Po-sse-jo 9% Ff Bi ‘pud-sie-niok =Pasanna=Pasenadi

Pu-lo # [2] *piceu-la=Pulo?

Si-ta 2% x *siet-d’at=Siddhattha=Siddhariha

Siu-t’a #{@—*siu-d’at= Sudatta

Siu-t’o-yuan—[1] Hl *siu-d’a-yuan = Sotapanna = Srota-
panna

So-t’o-ho #@ [1] A *sa-d’a-yua?

Ssse-li $f Fj *sie-1ji=Sihadia =Simha-dvipa

Sse-ho-mei #, ti] BE *,si-x€-mj"ei P

She-mo-na # [4] #4 *sidk-mnud nudi=Sakyamuni

Sho-yi @ ¥ *sia-,i=Siagya <Sakya

Sho-wei—@f *sia’-ji*ai=Sivai=Savatthi<Sravasti

Sho-ye f§ XB “sia-ia=Jaya

‘eu-ta 3) # .d’‘ieu-d’At = Devadatta

Teu-shu 98 $y “tek-d’z’iuet=Tusita

Vi-ho-kie-lo #2 #1 [3] [2] *die-,yud-g’iat-l4 = Diparkara
TWELVE YEARS OF WANDERING LIFE OF BUDDHA 43

To-kiu-mo [2] mm [4] *d’e-k’iuet-mua?

Wei-ye-li ME HS ME *wei-(z)ia-ljie= Vaidéali(?)

Wei mR i*ei(-d), mistake for an-ivsi (-d)? =anotatta

Wen-t’o-kie 3 [1] [8]* ,miuen-d’a-g’iat

Yen-feu-li Rj) A *iim-p’iu-lji, (- - die)=
Jambudvipa

Yi-lo-man,f [2] #% i-la-man =: Airavana

Ye-wei-t’an Hb He AY ia-wi-d’an = Yasodhara

Ye-she #% fi *ie- die= Yasa

Yiu-po-yi % YE KW *ieu-pua-,i= UpagaxU paka?P
The Rise of Sukhodaya
By Dr. R. C, Majumpar

The origin of the Thai Kingdom of Sukhodaya is in-
volved in obscurity. Some light is thrown on this by an
inscription found at Sukhodaya. The relevant passage is,
however, very mutilated, and does not make any complete
sense. Coedés, who first brought out its historical impor-
tance, has drawn some conclusions which are now gene-
rally accepted. It appears that a Kambuja general was
sent against two Thai chiefs named Phé Khun Bang Klang
Thao and Phé Khun Pha Muang, chief of Muang Rat. The
former had taken possession of Sajjanalaya and the latter
with his army came to his aid.: The Kambuja army which
occupied Sukhodaya, or at least barred access to it, was
defeated and the victorious Thai Chief PhO Khun Pha
Muang then entered Sukhodaya and entrusted its govern-
ment to Phd Khun Bang Klang Thao. The latter, how-
‘ever, we are told, could not enter the city out of respect
(or fear, it is not clear which) for his ally. So the former
removed his army, and when Bang Klang Thao entered
Sukhodaya, formally consecrated him to the throne of
Sukhodaya under the name of Sri Indrapatindraditya with
the title Kamraten Am Pha Muang, which had been con-
ferred on him by the king of Kambuja. The passage of
the inscription which relates this, although somewhat cryp-
tic, seems to convey that Phé Khun Pha Muang, who had
married the daughter of the king of Kambuja, was a vassal
chicf and had received from him formal investiture as
such. By his defeat of the ‘“‘audacious Khom’’ i-e., the
Kambuja general sent to oppose him, and triumphal entry
into Sukhodaya, Pha Muang regarded himself as the suze-
rain, and conferred, in his turn, on his ally, the position
and titles he had himself received from the suzerain king
of Kambuja. Thus we may trace in this incident the
virtual liberation of N. Siam from the yoke of Kambuja. But
the old linkswere not altogether broken, for the old Kambuja
titles were borne by the new king and his successors.

1 JA., 11 Serie Tome 15 (1920), pp. 233. JSS., XIV, pp. 1 ff.
THE RISE OF SUKHODAYA 45

Interest naturally centres around Phé Khun Pha Muang
who was thus instrumental in liberating Siam from Kambuja
suzerainty. Coedés, who brought out the above facts, has not,
unfortunately, pursued this question any further, but there
are certain points of great interest which merit a fuller. dis-
cussion. According to the inscription, Pha Muang had
married the daughter of the king of Kambuja, and obtained
the sacred sword, the honorific tithe named Sri Indrapati-
ndraditya and a formal investiture from him. All these
point to his identity with king Srindravarman of Kambuja,
who had married the daughter of king Jayavarman VIII
of Kambuja- Now Cheu Ta-Kuan, who accompanied the
Chinese embassy to the court of Srindravarman in 1296 A.D.
‘gives us the following account oi this king ‘‘The new king
is the son-in-law of the old. He had adopted a military
career. His father-in-law loved his daughter who stole the
golden sword (of the king) and took it to her husband.
The son, thus deprived of succession, plotted to raise an
army. The new king came to know of it, cut off the fingers
of his feet and shut him up ina dark chamber.’’® The

2 The text of the Ins. may be literally translated as follows:
“Formerly the divine king of Sri Sodharapura had given to Phé Khun
Pha Muang his daughter named Nang Sikharamahadevi, the sacred
sword Jayasri and an honorific ttle like his oyn. Pho Khun Bang
Klang Thao recetved the name Sri Indrapatindraditya because Phd
Khun Pha Muang took his own name for giving it, in his turn, to
his friend.’” Cocdés has pointed out that in modern Siamese and
Cambodian documents Sri Sodharapura appears as an element in the
literary designation of the capital of Cambodia (BEFEO., XIII. VI.
p. 9; XVIII, 9, p. 24). Coedés formerly restored the name as Siridhara
or Siri Sundara (Ibid.,). But he now (/4., 1920, p. 241) proposes to
take it as a corruption of Yasodharapura, the name of the old Kambuyja
capital, because he finds in a modern Cambodian state paper the name
of the capital written as “Kambujadhipati Sri Yaéodhara brah Maha-
nagara Indraprastha Rastha rajadhani.”

3 BEFEO., Vol. I, p. 176.
fh ‘ R. C. MAJUMDAR

account of Cheu Ta-Kuan is partly corroborated by a Kam-
buja inscription which says that Jayavarman VIII abdicated
the throne in favour of his son-in-law:* According to
the custom followed in Kambuja the prince who was
consecrated as heir-apparent with the title Sri Indrapati
or Indraditya would be called Srindravanaan on accession
to the throne.** Thus we have a remarkable coincidence,
both in name and the three special circumstances (marriage
of the king's daughter and the possession of the sword,
indicating investiture as heir-apparent) between the Kam-
buja king Srindravarman and the chief Pha Muang.
Besides, the fact that this chief, although son-in-law of the
Kambuja king, was opposed ‘by an ‘‘audacious Kambuja
general’’ would be explained by the rivalry between
Srindravarman of Kambuja and his brother-in-law referred
to by Cheu Ta-Kuan. Such coincidences cannot be dis-
missed as casual and we are justified in presuming the
identity of the two. In that case we must hold that prince
Srindravarman was invested as regent or Viceroy over
Siam during the reign of his father-in-law, and in the
struggle for succession with his brother-in-law, which took
place during the reign of the cld king, he had the assistance
of the Thai chief whose services he rewarded by his appoint-
ment as vassal chief of Sukhodaya, nominally under his
suzerainty. It was probably not long before the chief of
Sukhodaya became too powerful and challenged the
authority of Kambuja, and the ‘recent wars with the Sia-
mese which devastated the Angkor region’ as reported by
Cheu Ta-Kuan might refer to the civil war or to the later
stages of this war for liberation. . In any case we are justi-
fied in presuming that the rise of Sukhodaya as an indepen-
dent kingdom was probably due to the civil war between
Srindravarman, the son-in-law of the king of Kambuja, |
and his brother-in-law.

4 Mangalartha Temple Ins., V. XLI, BEFEO., Vol. XXV, pp.

393 ff.
4a BEFEO., Vol. XXVUIE, p. 100.
THE RISE OF SUKHODAYA 47

If this presumption be accepted we have to refer the
accession of Indradditya to the reign of Jayavarman VIII
who ascended the throne in 1243 A.D. or somewhat later.
This is in conflict with the current view that Indraditya
founded the kingdom of Sukhodaya in 1218 AD. This
view, however, rests upon a highly speculative interpretation
of a passage in the Nagara Jum Ins. by P. Petithuguenin.*
He translates ll. 19-21 of the Ins. as follows: ‘‘The year
in which Phraya Maha Dharmaréja constructed (or com-
menced) the Phra Dhatu, the age of men was lowered
below 100 years. That was 139 years ago, and the year
of the reduction is really the year of Hare.’’ He then
observes: ‘‘If this phrase has any sense it appears to
convey that. 139 years before 1279 i.e., in 1140 Saka (=1218),
which was really a year of Hare,® under a king named
Phraya Maha Dharmaraja an important social revolution
took place, which could well be, as already remarked by
Lajonquiere, the date of accession of the first king of
Sukhodaya. It is not then Sri Sirya Phrah Maha Dharma-
rajadhiraja who reigned from 1276 to 1298 Saka, but one
of his predecessors more than a century ago, who is the
Phrah or Ba Thammarat of the tradition and who could
not be any other than Indraditya.”’

It is needless to point out that the above theory
about the accession of Indraditya in 1218 A. D. rests on a
very weak basis and cannot be taken seriously. The
earliest definite date in the chronology of Sukhodaya is
furnished by the Inscription of Rama Khamheng,’ accord-
ing to which this king, who was the third son of Indraditya,
and the third king of the dynasty, was on the throne bet-
ween 1283 and 1292 A.D. This would place the accession
of Indraditya some time about the middle of the third
century A.D. Now the Pali chronicle Jinakdlamalini pla-
ces the accession of Phra Ruang the founder of the dynasty

5 BEFEO., Vol. XVI, No. 3, p. 18.
6 This is not correct. Cf. ibid., p. 25.
7 %ISS., Vol. VI, Pare 1.
48 R. C. MAJUMDAR

in 1256 A.D. Prince Damrong has suggested the identi-
fication of Phra Ruang and Indraditya and Coedés also
favours the same view.® We may, therefore, provisionally,
accept 1256 A.D. as the date of accession of Indraditya,
though we shall not be justified in regarding it as an estab-
lished fact. , °

If we accept this date for Indraditya, and identify the
chief Pha Muang with the future king of Kambuja named
Indravarman we have to reconstruct the political history
of the period somewhat differently than is done at present.
It would appear that either the struggle referred to in the
Sukhodaya Inscription must .have taken place long after
the accession of Indraditya or that the civil war in Kambuja
between the son and son-in-law of Jayavarman VIII must
have commenced at an early part of the reign of that king.
Both these views being opposed to the current ideas on
the subject, they may be examined a little more closely.

It is generally assumed that Indraditya began his polli-
tical carreer as chief of Sukhodaya. This, however, is not
borne out by any positive evidence. On the other hand
the Sukhodaya Inscription referred to above shows that
he was already the chief of the principality of Sajjanalaya
when he joined Pha Muang. Instances are not want-
ing when a petty chief, who later becomes ruler of
an important kingdom, dates his accession from his first
coming to power.. We may thus regard 1256 A.D. (or
any other date that may be accepted on more positive’
evidence) as the date when Indraditya first became a ruling
chief and not necessarily that of his conquest of Sukhodaya.

The perusual of the first part of Rama Khamheng’s Ins-
cription leaves the impression that Sukhodaya was not a
very important kingdom during the time of his father and
elder brother who preceded him, and its greatness and
importance really date from his time. We cannot rule out
altogether the possibility that Indrapatindraditya who was
formally consecrated at Sukhodaya by the son-in-law of

8 BEFEO., Vol. XVII, pp. 43-44.
R. C. MAJUMDAR 49

the Kambuja king after the defeat of the Kambuja general
was no other than Rama Khamheng himself, the name
Indrapatindraditya being composed of the name of his
benefactor (Indrabhipati) and his own grandfather Indra-
ditya. Thia is undoubtedly a mere hypothesis for the
present, but we cannot discard it simply because it does
not tally with the current views on the subject which are,
however, not based on any solid ground.

Rama Khamheng claims in his Inscription to have made
extensive conquests, and occupied territories belonging
to Kambuja. CheuTa-Kuan, writing of Kambuja in 1296
or 97 A.D. refers to the devastation of the country in the
-recent wars with Siam. The Sukhedaya Inacription refers to
a fight between Kambuja general and the son-in-law of the
Kambuja king allied with a Thai Chief of Siam. All these
may refer to the different episodes in the struggle between
the son and son-in-law of the Kambuja king Jayavarman
VIll. This civil war then must have taken place sometime
before the end of the reign of this king in 1295 or 1296 A.D.
This seems to follow from the statement in the Manga-
lartha Temple Inscription that Jayavarman VIII abdicated
in favour of his son-in-law. But although this may be
justly regarded as a very weak argument against the obvi-
ous inference from Cheula-Kuan’s statement, quoted
above, it is to be noted that we cannot reject the idea of
a civil war taking place long before the end of Jayavarman’s
reign without upsetting some of the generally accepted
views of historical events. For apart from all speculative
theories on the identification of Pha Muang, the broad
fact remains that he, a son-in-law of the ruling king of
Kambuja, fought with a Kambuja general near Sukhodaya.
Although this cannot be precisely dated it could hardly have |
taken place in 1295 or 1296 A.D. when king Rama Kham-
heng must have, according to the generally accepted view

9 The Mangalartha Temple Ins. refers to Srindravarman as
Srindra-bhiipati (V. XLI) and Srindrabhijpa (XLVIIN).

7
. 50 THE RISE OF SUKHODAYA

based on Sukhodaya Inscription, thoroughly established
his power over Sukhodaya and an extensive region round
it, and we can hardly think of a Kambuja prince defeating
a Kambuja general and consecrating an allied chief as
ruler over Sukhodaya.?® On the other hand it is difficult
to explain away the incident by referring it to the reign
of any other king of Kambuja. For, as we have seen above
there are no reasonable grounds to place the foundation
of Sukhodaya by Indraditya before 1243 A.D. when Jaya-
varman VIII ascended the throne, and the fight between
the Kambuja general and the son-in-law of Kambuja king,
referred to in the Sukhodaya Inscription, can only refer
to a civil war in his reign.

In case our theory is right that this struggle was caused
by the rivalry between Srindravarman and _ his brother-in-
law over the succession to the throne, we can hardly place
it long before 1275 A.D., and possibly the date is later.
For in the Bantei Srei Inscription of Srindravarman the
earth is congratulated on its deliverance, by a young king,
from the thorns and brambles which had grown up during
11 This shows that Srindravarman
was a young man when he ascended the throne in 1295
or 1296 A.D. It is hardly likely therefore that he would
have been old enough to contest the throne long before
c. 1275 A.D.

The reference to the thorns and brambles during the
reign of the old king Jayavarman VIII probably reflects
the true condition of things, and in the light of what has
been suggested above we may provisionally reconstruct
the history of the period as follows :—

Jayavarman VIII, in his old age, nominated Srindra-
varman, his son-in-law, as his successor and appointed him

the reign of an old king.

10 Of course we can explain this on the basis of the theory
advanced in this paper if we identify Bang Klang Thao with Ram
Khamheng. :

ir BEFEO., Vol. XXV, p. 395.
R. C. MAJUMDAR 51

as governor over western provinces including Siam. His
son thereupon took up arms to defend his right. Thus
ensued a civil war in course of which battles were fought
in Siam. The conquest of the Thai Kingdom of Nan Chao
by Kublai Khan led to a movement of the warlike Thais
‘towards the scuth, and Srindravarman enlisted.their support
by offering large rewards and concessions. [n. particular,
he won over a Thai Chief (either Indraditya or Rama Kham-
heng) by consecrating him as king of Sukhodaya and offer-
ing him virtual independece and suzerainty over Siam.
With their help he defeated his brother-in-law and impri-
soned him, but did not ascend the throne till some years
dater when the old king abdicated in his favour. The
palace-intrigues and the general insecurity of the times
are indicated by the fact that -Srindravarman, even after
he became king, seldom ventured to come out in public
and was clad, on those rare occasions, by an iron coat
of mail, to guard himself from assassins. The civil war led to
political troubles at home and abroad, but its most impor-
iant effect was the foundation of a strong Thai kingdom
in Siam with its capital at Sukhodaya.
The date of accession of Jayavarman li
By Dr. R. C. MAJUMDAR

The accession of Jayavarman II, the king of Kambuja,
in 724 Saka (=802 A.D.) was regarded as a fixed point in
Kambuja chronology till Coedés propounded a new theory
in 1928. He discussed the question in connection with
an inscription in the temple of Lobok Srot which was
issued in 703 Saka during the reign of a king Jayavarman,
and observed as follows: ‘‘When 1 first edited the inscrip-
tion (BEFEO., V, p. 419) Jayavarman I] was believed to
have reigned till 791 S. and it was therefore impossible
to attribute this inscription to him without assigning him
a reign of 90 years and a longevity of at least 110 years;.
and | provisionally numbered this king as Jayavarman
I (bis). But since according to the new chronology I have
established at the beginning of this note, Jayavarman II
died in 776 S. it is not at all impossible that it was
he who had founded the temple of Lobok Srot, perhaps
immediately after his return from Java and at the beginning
of his reign at Indrapur. But this is merely a hypothesis
to which | draw attention in passing. If it comes to be
verified, it will furnish a valuable chronological data
and prove that Jayavarman II returned from Java before
781 A.D.""?

Regarding the prevalent opinion about the date of
Jayavarman’s accession he remarks elsewhere in the same
article that the reign of Jayavarman Il did not really
commence in 724 S. as is generally held, but that date marks
the foundation of his capital on Mt. Mahendra.’

In view of the great scholarship of M. Ccoedés and his
unrivalled knowledge of Kambuja history, any hypothesis

BEFEO., Vol. XXVIII, p. I1g. 2 Ibid., p. 117,
R. C. MAJUMDAR ° 53

propounded by him is likely to meet general acceptance.
This alone can explain the readiness with which some
scholars have accepted the new theory without any further
examination. For there seems to be hardly any valid
ground—and none has been urged by Coedés—tor taking
724 §. as the date of the foundation of the capital on
Mahendraparvata. Following the usual tradition in Kambuja
epigraphy, the authors of several inscriptions have referred
to the date of commencement of Jayavarman’s reign, and
no reason has been shown why that date should be asso-
ciated with a particular incident in the reign of Jayavarman
Il, and not regarded, as in all other cases, as the date of
his accession. It is true that the reference to Mahendra-

parvata is found in some of these verses, as for example.

‘* Asid = avaridher = urvvim vahan= ved-ardha-
bhidharaih |
Raja Sri-fayavarmm=eti Mahendra-ddri-

krt-Gspadah |i’
Here the expression Mahendradri’ is a qualifying epithet
of the king and it would be a far-fetched interpretation to
regard it as qualifying the date. But fortunately there are
verses in several other records which clearly refer the
accession of Jayavarman II to 724 S. without any refer-
ence whatsoever to his capital on Mahendraparvata.* The
most interesting evidence about the correct interpretation
of this verse is, however, furnished by Prea Kev Ins.” It

3 Prasat Trapan Run Ins., V. XIV; Ibid., p. 63.
4 Cf. eg., the following :—
(a) Asid bhipo mahavarnso Veda-yugm-adri-rajya-bhak |
Namna Sri Jayavarmma yah khyato bhimau manur=
yyathai|
(Prasat Kak Po Ins., V. IV, BEFEO., Vol. XXXVI, p. 389.
(b)  (catu)r-bhuj-acalorvvi-(dh)rc=catur-bh(u)ja_ iv = 4para(h)|
(Phnom Prah Vihear Ins., V. A. 4, JSCC., p. 533).
5 VV. A. 10. B. 2. ISCC., pp. 104, 106.
| THE DATE’*OF ACCESSION OF JAYAVARMAN If

contains two verses denoting the commencement of the
reigns of two kings of Kambuja which run as follows:

(a) ‘‘Asid=Sri-Saryavarmm=eti Veda-dui-bila-

rajya-bhak |

(b) Asid-Kamvuja-rdjendro Veda-dvi-naga-

rajya-bhak ||

The similarity of the two expressions, in the same inscrip-
tion, leaves no doubt that in both cases the date was meant
to be that of the accession of the king. There is no doubt
that the second verse quoted above refers to Jayavarman II
and as such we must regard 724 as the date of*his accession.

So, the significance of the date 724 is clear. As regards
Coedés’ theory that the king Jayavarman of Lobok Srot Ins.,
dated 703 S., was identical with Jayavarman I], it has been
demolished, as Ccedés was the first to admit®, by the dis-
covery of another inscription, dated 692 Saka (=770 A.D.),
at Prah That Prah Srei, of the reign of Jayavarman.
For it is now more reasonable to identify the two kings
mentioned in these records, and obviously he cannot be
identified with Jayavarman I] whose reign in that case would
cover the period 770-854 A.D.

There is thus no reason whatsoever to disregard the
clear statement in the epigraphic records that Jayavarman
II came to the throne in 724 Saka (=802 A.D.). It appears
that Coedés himself never definitely abandoned this old
view in favour of his new hypothesis, for even long after
it was propounded he gave the date of Jayavarman I] as
802-854 A.D.” And so does Parmentier.® But unfortu-
nately other scholars were less cautious and accepted
Coedés’ theory asa settled fact. Thus Dr. B. R. Chatterji’,

BEFEO., Vol. XXXVI, p. 10, fn. 9.

BEFEO., Vol. XXXIV, p- 421.

Ibid., Vol. XXXV, p. 65.

IGIS., Vol. V1, pp. 144-145. On p. 144 Dr. Chatterji_ places

the reign of Jayavarman IJ from “latter part of the gth century to

Oo SND
R. C. MAJUMDAR ~ 55

P. Stern’? and P. Dupont™ have accepted 724 S. as the
date of the foundation of Mahendraparvata, and placed the
accession of Jayavarman I] towards the end of the eighth
century A.D. even long after Dr. Coedés, who originally
propounded these views, had given them up. In any case
the accession of Jayavarman I] must be placed in 802 A.D.

854 A.D.” gth is obviously a misptint for 8th. He fully accepts
Cadeés’ theory on p. 145 (last three lines).

10 BEFEO., Vol. XXXIV, pp- 614, 616; Vol. XXXVI, pp. rz,
175) 179.

11 Dupont sometimes gives 802 A.D. as the date of accession
(BEFEO., Vol. XXXVI, pp. 416, 630) but sometimes takes it as the
date of the institution of the Devaraja cult (/bid., Vol. XXXVIII,

P- 429).
Progress of Greater Indian Research during
the last twenty-five years (1917-42)
—A Supplement*

Preface .

From early times a shallow generalization has often
drawn the picture of India as standing aloof from the currents
of the world’s history. This view seems to find its support in
the remarkable physical features of the land and not less,
in the unigue type of its civilization. With its frontiers
girt round by impassable mountains and forests as well as
the circling seas, nature herself appears to have doomed
India toa life of splendid isolation. India’s remarkable
institution of caste as well as its distinctive systems of
religion and philosophy would seem further to have formed
an insurmountable barrier between its people and those
of the outside world. And yet atthe present moment
itis but a historical truism to assert that never in all the
centuries of its past existence our country has ceased to
maintain active contact by land as well as by sea with
countries and peoples beyond its frontiers. This contact,
it must further be noted, was not confined to the exchange
of material goods, but extended also to the domain of ideas.

In this grand and ceaseless process of. contact with
neighbouring lands, India’s role has not been that of a
mere passive recipient. More and more the unimpeachable
evidence of ‘history is proving the profound influence
exercised by her all-pervasive culture upon outside lands,
specially those of South-Eastern and Eastern Asia. Thus Sir
John Marshall, who cannot certainly be accused of ex-
aggerating Indian influence, after referring in a recent
pronouncement to ‘the amazingly vital and flexible character
of Indian Art’ and the common capacity of Indian and

* Continued from JGIS., Vol. IX, No. 2, p. 141.
PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN RESEARCH «7

Greek Art ‘to adapt themselves to suit the needs of every
country, race and religion with which they came into
contact’, writes as follows:—‘'To know Indian Art in India
‘alone, is to know but half its story. To apprehend it to the
full, we must follow it in the wake of Buddhism, to Central
Asia, China and Japan; we must watch it assuming new
forms and breaking into new beauties as it spreads over
Tibet and Burma and Siam; we must gaze in awe at the
unexampled grandeur of its creations in Cambodia and
Java. In each of these countries, Indian Art encounters a
different racial genius, a different local environment, and
under their modifying influence it takes on a different garb’’.
(Foreword to Reginald Le May, Buddhist Art in Siam,
Cambridge, 1938). What is true of art, is true of other
branches of civilization as well. As a brilliant French
writer has recently observed:—‘‘In the high plateau of
Eastern Iran, in the oases of Serindia, in the arid wastes
of Tibet, Mongolia and Manchuria, in the ancient civilised
lands of China and Japan, inthe lands of the primitive
Mons and Khmers and other tribes in Indo-China, in the
countries of the Malayo-Polynesians, in Indonesia and
Malay, India left the indelible impress of her high culture
not only upon religion, but also upon art and literature, in
a word, all the higher things of the spirit’ (Réné Grousset,
The Civilisations of the East, vol. Il, p. 276). Out of this
amazing expansion of India’s unique culture there rose and
flourished in the first millennium of the Christian era, to
quote the authoritative words of the French author just
mentioned, ‘a Greater India politically as little organised
as Greater Greece, but morally. equally homogeneous’.
But as Greater India has excelled in extent and duration
its Greek counterpart, so much has the recovery of its lost
history cost greater scholarly effort and enterprise. This
process of rediscovery of Greater India, slow and fitful at
the beginning, has taken larger and larger strides with the
march of time. In the following pages an attempt is made
to trace the extraordinary advance which Greater Indian

8
58 U. N. GHOSHAL

research has achieved during the last quarter of a century.
This achievement, it will be seen, has been largely secured
by the organization of expedition and research under the aus-
pices of the various advanced Governments of the modern
world. Next to the Governments, the learned Societies of
various lands have co-operated in unearthing and inter-
preting the records of the past history of Greater India.

The cumulative labours of a host of explorers, archaeo-
logists, art-critics and historians of various lands, gather-
ing in momentum during the last quarter of a century,
have added a new and glorious chapter to the history of
our country. Inthe teeth of blind ignorance and narrow
prejudice, they have definitely established India’s claim
to rank among the great civilising nations of the world. To
quote the pertinent remarks of Sir Charles Eliot (Hinduism
and Buddhism, Vol. I, p. xii): ~—‘Scant justice is done
to India’s position in the world by those histories which
recount the exploits of her invaders and leave the
impression that her own people were a feeble dreamy
folk, sundered from the rest of mankind by their sea
and mountain frontiers. Such a picture takes no account
of the intellectual conquests of the Hindus. Even their
political conquests were not contemptible and are remark-
able for the distance, if not the extent, of the territories
occupied....... But such military or commercial invasions
are insignificant compared with the spread of Indian
' thought.’ As the eminent French savant Sylvain Lévi
writes (Abel Bergaigne et l’Indianisme in Revue Blue, tome
45, 1890, tr. by Kalidas Nag in Modern Review, Dec.
1921):—‘From Persia to the Chinese Sea, from the icy
regions of Siberia to the islands of Java and Borneo, from
Oceania to Socotra, India has propagated her beliefs, her
genius, her tales and her civilization. She has left indelible
imprints on one-fourth of the human race in course of a
long succession of centuries. She has the right to reclaim in
universal history the rank that ignorance has refused her
for a longtime and to hold her place amongst the great
PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN RESEARCH 59

nations summarising and symbolising the spirit of Huma-
nity.” How the discovery of this. grand -truth is reacting
in the minds of India’s greatest sacns is best expressed in
the pregnant worde of Rabindranath Tagore (Foreword to
JGIS., vol. I, No. 1, January 1934):—‘‘To know my country
in truth one has to travel to that age, when she realised
her soul and thus transcended her physical boundariea,
when she revealed her being in a radiant magnanimity
which illumined the Eastern horizon, making her recog-
nised as their own by those in alien shores who were
awakened into a surprise of life ; and not now when she
has withdrawn herself within a narrow barrier of obscurity,
into a miserly pride of exclusiveness,- into a paverty of
mind that dumbly revolves around itself in an unmean-
ing repetition of a part that has lost its light and has no
message to the pilgrims of the future.’’ It is to be earnestly
hoped that the amazingly rich record of progress in the
rediscovery of Greater India, that is revealed in these
pages, will usher ina period of active research carried
out by her own sons ina field they have sadly neglected
so far.
CONTENTS

Afghanistan:

French monopoly of archaeological exploration,
|; ‘Grzeco-Buddhist’ and ‘lrano-Buddhist’ schools
of Art, 1; Discoveries at Hadda, 2; at Bamiyan,
2, 3; at Khair Khaneh, 3; at Begram 3, 4; at
Fondukistan, 4.

Central Asia:

Tibet:

Chance-finds of manuscripts and _ antiquities;
4; expeditions of M. A. Stein, 4, 5; German,
Russian, Japanese, French and Chinese expeditions,
5; reports of expeditions of Stein, Griinwedel and
Le Coq, 6, 7, 8; of Russian and Japanese expedi-
tions, 7, 8; publications of objects of art by Le
Coq, Pelliot and Stein, 8,9; catalogues of Waley,
Andrews, 9; topics and styles of Central Asian
art, 10; discoveries of Indian texts, 10; publications
of Sanskrit texts, 11, 12; of Kharosthi texts in North-
West Prakrit, 12, 13; of Indian literary texts in
Karasharian and Kuchean languages, 14, 15; in
Sogdian and Khotanese languages, 15, 16; in the
ancient Turki language, 16; in the Tangut (Si-hia)
language, 16; in the Tibetan language, 17; publica-
tions of Chinese Buddhist documents, 17.

Publications of new catalogues of Tibetan canon,
18; of Tibetan Buddhist texts, 18, 19; catalogues
of Tibetan collections in museums, 19; works on
Tibetan religion, 20; explorations of Guiseppe
Tucci, 20, 21; of Rahula Sankrtyadyana, 21.

Mongolia and Manchuria:

Publications of Mongolian Buddhist texts, 22;
discovery of Manchurian Kanjur, 22.
PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN RESEARCH 61

Burma:

_ decade of twentieth century, 23, 24; archaeological

P
Siam:
e

Progress of archaeological studies down to, first
discoveries of Charles Duroiselle, 24, 25, 26; growth
of museums, 26; progress of studies in Burmese
religious history, 26, 27, 28; in Burmese art, 28, 29;
in Burmese literary history, 30; in general history
of Burma, 30.

Siam in pre-T’ai period, 30; State organization
of archaeological research, 30, 31; researches of
George Coedés in Siamese archaeology, 31, 33; in
Siamese art and architecture, 32, 33; researches
of other scholars, 33; publications of Reginald Le
May, 34; explorations of H. G. Quaritch Wales,
35: of the French School of the Far East, 36; works
on general history of Siam, 36; Indian influences-

upon Siam, 36, 37.

Cambodia:

Funan and Cambodia, 38; early publications
of Cambodian Sanskrit inscriptions, 38; foundation
of the French School of the Far East, 38; systematic
surveys of antiquities and preparation of biblio-
graphies, 39; recent progress in the study of ins-
criptions, 40; in archaeological exploration and
research, 41; the Angkor group of monuments,
42-44; the new chronology of Khmer att, 44;
conservation of monuments, 44; growth of museums
44-45; critical study of Cambodian art, 45; relation
of Khmer to Indian art, 46-47; symbolism of Cam-
bodian monuments, 47-48; works on general
history of Cambodia and its civilization, 48; the
French School and the Buddhist cultural renaissance
in Cambodia, 48-49; Indian influences upon Cam-

bodian civilization, 49.
Gay U. N. GHOSHAL

Champa:
Indian culture in Champa, 50; early studies in
the art, archaeology and general history of Champa,

50-51; progress of recent studies, 51, 52, 53.
Malayasia:

2

Indian culture in Malayasia, 53-54,

1. dava:

Early studies in Javanese history and culture,
54-55; the Committee in Netherlands-India for
‘the archaeological explorations in Java and Madura,
55-56; the growth of museums, 56; progress of
other branches of research, 56-57 ; recent progress
in archaeological exploration and research, 58; in
epigraphical studies, 58, 59; in critical study of
Javanese art, 59,60; relation of Javanese to Indian
art, 60; the Stipa of Barabudur, 61, 62, 63; the
temples of Prambanan and Panataran, 63 ; Javanese
bronzes, 63, 64; Javanese dances and shadow-plays,
64; the growth of -.museums and learned societies,
64, 65; recent studies in Old-Javaneae religious
beliefs and practices, 65, 66 ; in Old-Javanese litera-
ture, 66, 67; in Old-Javanese history and culture,

67, 68.

2. Bali:

Studies in Balinese art and archaeology, 68,
69; in Balinese literature, 69; in Balinese general
history, 69.

3, Borneo and Celebes:

Studies in Sanskrit inscriptions from Borneo, 70;
in Brahmanical and Buddhist sculptures of Borneo,
70; the Buddha image of Celebes, 70,71; works

on general history, 71.
PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN’ RESEARCH 63

4. Sumatra:

Ccedés’s reconstruction of the history of Srivijaya
and its criticisms, 71, 72: the Buddhist sculptures of
Palembang, 72; explorations of F.M. Schnitger, 73.

5. Malay Peninsula:

Indian culture in Malay, 73, 74; discoveries of
Sanskrit inscriptions, 74, of Brahmanical and
Buddhist antiquities, 74, 75; explorations of H. G.
Quaritch Wales, 75, 76; works on general history of
Malay, 76, 77. —

Ceylon:

Indian culture in Ceylon, 77, 78: early studies
in Sinhalese art, archaeology and culture, 78, 79, 80:
recent progress in Sinhalese archaeological studies,
80, 81, 82; in the study of Sinhalese art, 82; in

the study of Sinhalese culture and general history,

82, 83.
ADDITIONS AND CORRECTIONS

P. 1. last line: After ‘archaeologists’ add:

‘At the site of Balkh, ‘Mother of Cities’ and
capital of ancient Bactria, A. Foucher carried out
(1923-25) a number of prolonged excavations, of
which a detailed report is expected to be published
in Tome I of the Memoirs of the French Archaeo-
logical Delegation in Afghanistan. Foucher’s general
conclusions are summed up in his short work Etude
sur l'art bouddhique de Il’Inde (Maison franco-
japonaise, Tokyo)’.

P. 3. line 22: After ‘Sarvastivadins’ add:

‘About this time J. Hackin published a summary
of explorations of the School in French under the
title The Work of the French Archaeological Dele-
gation in Afghanistan (1922-32), Paris, 1933’.

P. 4. line 14: After ‘January and July 1940’ add:

‘In 1936 chance excavations brought to light at
Kunduz seven stucco heads (being the first Buddhist
sculptures found so far to the north of the Hindu-
kush) as well as the remains of a Buddhist apsidal
monastery: The stucco fragments have been dated
on stylistic grounds between the first century B.C.
and the first century A. D. by J. Hackin (L’ art
Greco-bouddhique de la Bactriane, Kabul, 1937). In
the summer of 1938 a British expedition led by
Evert Barger excavated a number of sites in the
Swat Valley and carried out an_ archaeological
reconaissance in Northern Afghanistan. The detailed
report of the expedition has been published under
the title Excavations in Swat and Explorations in the
Oxus territories of Afghanistan by Evert Barger-and
Philip Wright (Memoirs of the Archaeological Survey
of India, No. 64, Delhi, 1941)’.
PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN RESEARCH 65

‘In his work The Wall-paintings of India, Certral
Asia and Ceylon. A Comparative Study: With an
Introductory Essay on the Nature of Buddhist. Art
by Ananda K. Coomaraswamy, Boston 1938 the author
has characterized the paintings in the vault of the
115-foot Buddha niche at Bamiyan as belonging to the
Sassanian style. By contrast the niche of the other
colossal Buddha and its groups of smaller caves
disp!ay the Indian style. The decorative scheme in
the vault, according to the same author, was a gigan-
tic Buddha now effaced, surounded by a host of
Buddhas, Bodhisattvas and Apsarases’.

P. 6. line 25: After ‘ancient city’ add:
‘which show the Hellenistic Gandhara art to be
yielding to Sassanian and East Indian influences”’

P. 6. line 32: For ‘three’ read ‘five’.

P. 7. line 23: After ‘forth’ add:

‘From Karakhoto (The Black city) forming part
of the ancient Tangut (Hsi-hsia) kingdom Stein
acquired a mass of wooden sculptures illustrating
Jataka scenes as well as figures of enthroned
Buddhas, of Buddhist scenes and of Brahmanical

deities mounted upon their Vahanas.’

P. 8. line 11: After ‘Indian script’ add: .

‘The results of Hackin’s explorations on the site
of Bazaklik already visited by Griinwedel were
recorded in his work Recherches archéologiques en
Asie centrale (Paris, 1931) where he mentioned
Buddhist sanctuaries with mandalas or apparitions
of Tantrik divinities’.

P. 10. line 12: After ‘Buddhist Paradise’ add:

‘The Japanese scholar Eiichi Matsumoto identified
(Bukkyo Bijutsu, No. 19, Tokyo, 1933) a number of
such paintings from the Caves of the Thousand
Buddhas as representing the defeat of the Brahman
Raudrakga by Sariputra in a contest of supernatural
66 U. N. GHOSHAL

powers, while another painting from Tun-huang was
identified by him (Kokka, No. 515, Tokyo, 1933) as
referring to the Bodhisattva Ksitigarbha. A number
of mural or silk paintings from Tun-huang and Turfan
representing the paradise of Bhaisajyaguruvaidurya-
prabhasa was afterwards identified and explained
‘by the same scholar (Kokka, No. 523, 1934). The
mural and other Buddhist paintings as well as the
Buddhist images from the Caves of the Thousand
Buddhas have since been thoroughly examined by
him in a Japanese work bearing the title Studies in
the Paintings of Tun-huang, 2 vols., Tokyo 1937(>')
P. 12. line 11: For Keinere read Kleinere.
P. 12. line 26: After ‘Central Asian Sanskrit canon’ add:
‘Mention my be made in this connection of Helmuth
Hoffmann’s edition of the fragments of the Atandtika
Sitra from the Central Asian Sanskrit Canon in
the same series, Kleinere Sanskrit Texte, heft v,
Leipzig 1939’.
P. 13. line 26: After Dhammapada add:
‘To T. Burrow we are also indebted for the publi-
cation (Further Kharosthi Documents from Niya,
BSOS. YX) of the text and translation of 18 tablets
of Kharosthi inscriptions discovered ‘by Stein in his
last Central Asian expedition in 1930’.
P. #4. line 23: After ‘Tocharian language’ add:
‘Meanwhile E. Leumann published (Strassburg
1919) the Tocharian text (with a German translation)
of the Maitreyasamiti of the poet Aryacandra’.
P. 15. line 18: After Heidelberg 1928 add:
‘The revised readings of some of these fragments
along with the readings of certain new fragments
of Soghdian Manuscripts were published by E.
; Benveniste (Notes Sogdiennes, BSOS. IX)’.
P. 15. line 24: For ‘Eassai’ read ‘Essai’.
Ibid., line 26: After ‘E. Benveniste (Paris 1929)’ add:

‘The facsimilies of Soghdian manuscripts preserved
PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN RESEARCH 67

in the Bibliotheque Nationale have been published
by Benveniste under the title ‘Monumenta Lingua-
rum Asiae Minoris, vol. Ill, Codices Sogdiani
(Copenhagen 1940)’.
P. 16. lines 1-8: For ‘A complete poem in Khote nese Saka
... Vijaya Sira read the following : ee
‘The longest literary work in Khotanese Saka,
consisting of an epic in 25 chapters relating to the
legend of the future saviour Maitreya and derived
entirely from Indian inspiration, was edited with a
German translation by E. Leumann and published
(1933-34) after his death by Manu Leumann. It bears
(in German) the title The North Aryan (Sakish) doctri-
nal poem of Buddhism. A series of studies of Khota-
nese texts in the collection of the British Museum
and of the India Office has been recently published
by H. W. Bailey under the title Hvatanica (BSOS.
VIH—xX). Among the most interesting of these
texts are a fragment of a Khotanese translation
of the Siddhasdfa of Ravigupta (BSOS. VIII), a
Sanskrit-Khotanese bilingual text (Ibid. IX) and
a number of texts referring to gods and goddesses
(largely of Indian origin) that were worshipped in
ancient Khotan (Ibid. X). In BSOS. VIII, H. W.
Bailey and E. W. Johnston jointly edited a fragment
of the Uttaratantra (a fundamental work of
Northern Buddhism) with Khotanese Saka annota-
tions. ToH. W. Bailey we owe the publication
of the text and translation of the Khotanese version
of the Ramayana (BSOS., X. Parts 2 & 3). He
has also edited (BSOS. IX) the supposed Sanskrit
original of the Khotanese Jdtakastava of Jiianayaéas.
This work, which is preserved in the Tohoku
Catalogue of the Sde-dge edition of the Tibetan
Bstan-hgyur, consists of the Sanskrit text written
in Tibetan script with inter-linear Tibetan gloss’.

P. 16. line 22: After S. P. A. W. 1931 add:
68" ‘U.N. GHOSHAL

‘Mention may be made in this connection of the
important paper (in German) of H. Stinner on The
Central Asian Sanskrit Texts in Brahmi Script.
(SKPAW., XLIV. 1904). A Turkish fragment in
Brahmi was afterwards published along with a
glossary of Turkish words by H. W. Bailey
(BSOS. LX)’.

P. 17. line 8: After ‘surprisingly’ add.
) ‘The Tibetan fragments of the Rama story have
since been investigated by M. Lalou (J. A., 1936)’.
P. 17. line 34: After Peiping 1930-31 add:

‘A brief but useful, survey of Indian cultural influ-
ences in Central Asia, Tibet, China, Further India
and Malayasia has since been given by F. W. Thomas
in his Calcutta University Lectures under the title
Indianism and its Expansion, Calcutta 1942. In the
course of this work the author pays a well-deserved
tribute to the work of Japanese scholars, of whom he
says (op. cit. p. 96):—‘In the study of ancient Indian
originals no other country has produced scholars
combining to the same extent a facility in dealing
with the sources and the _ painstaking scholarly
method’.

P. 18. line 26: For K’'ang-shi’ read K’ang-hsi’.

P. 18. line 38: Omit Dharmakirti’s PramdnavaGrttika, ed.
Rahula Sankrityayana, J/BORS (1938-39).

P. 19. line 9: Omit by Vallée Poussin and

P. 19. line 12: After Calcutta 1931 add:

“The authorship of the Nydyapraveéga is still dis-
puted between Dinnaga and his pupil Sankara-
svamin. For a good summary of this discussion
see the Introduction, pp. vi-xiii to the Nydya-
pravesa, Pt. I, Sanskrit text with commentaries
critically edited by A. B. Dhruva (GOS. No.
XXXVI, Baroda, 1930). The author’s tentative
conclusion is that ‘the Nydyapravesa is a work
composed by Sankarasvamin to facilitate entrance
PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN ‘RESEARCH 69

into the Nydyadvadra (‘the Gate of Logic’) which
is a work of his master Dinnaga’. Alambanapariksa
of Dinnaga has recently been edited in its restored
Sanskrit form with an accompanying English tran-
slation and copious extracts from Dharmapala’s com-
mentary by N. Aiyaswami Sastri. (Adyar Library,
Madras 1942). To this list we have to add the
publication of the text and translation (in German)
of Agvaghosa’s Buddhacarita by Freiderich Weller,
Leipzig 1926. This work consists of two parts, Part I,
containing the text and translation of cantos !-8
and Part II those of cantos 9-17.’
P. 19 line 25: After Part I], 1932, add: .

‘Some valuable hints for the collection of materials
for a Tibetan bibliography are given by Andrew
Vostrikov in his paper, Some corrections and
critical remarks on Dr. Johan van Manen’s Contri-
bution to the Bibliography of Tibet (BSOS., VIII,
Pr. 1, 1935).° .

P. 19 line 32: After Hanoi 1935 add:

‘A classified and illustrated catalogue of the
Loo Collection of Tibetan Paintings prepared by
Mile. Raymonde Linossier was published under
the title Les peintures tibétaines de la collection
Loo in the Etudes d’Orientalisme publiées par
le Musée Guimet @ la Mémoire de Raymonde
Linossier, Paris, 1932.’

P. 21 line 12: - After temples add:

‘Of great historical, aesthetic as well as icono-
graphical interest are the frescoes of tdntric deities
executed by Indian artists c. 1000 A.D., which
adorn the walls of some of these temples.’

P. 21 line 28: After Tibetan Libraries add:

‘The Bihar & Orissa Research Society has since
published a series of works under the title Sanskrit
Texts from Tibet. Among these we may specially
mention the Adhyardhaésgataka[‘Hymn of one hundred

~
a)

UD UU

. 2).

. 26.
31,
. 32.
33.
34,
35.

. 39.

. 40.

U. N. GHOSHAL

and fifty (verses)] by Matrceta, edited with preface
and two appendices by Rahula Sankrityayana. This
.edition is based upon Sanskrit texts recovered by the
author from Tibetan monastic libraries as well as the
Tibetan and Chinese versions and Hoernle's edition
of the Central Asian Manuscript Fragments in the
work Manuscript Remains of Buddhist Literature
found in Eastern Turkestan. Another notable
work of the same series is the Pramdnavdritika
by Dharmakirtti which is a commentary on the
Pramadnasamuccaya of Dinnaga, ‘the father of Indian
Mediaeval logic’.
line 35: For Asia Major VIII read 1929, Verlag
der Asia Major.
line 8: For ASI 1915 read ASI 1915-16.
line 14: For Vajirafiana read Vajirafiana.
line 18: Omit and so forth.
line 16: For 1930 read 1937.
line 24: For U'kong read U'tong.
line 25: ~After Gupta School add:

“The reference is to Ccoedés’ paper Note sur les
quelques sculptures provenant de Srideb (Siam) in

Etudes d’Orientalisme Linossier.’
line 24: After regions add:

‘An index of Aymonier’s great work was published
by George Coedés in BCAI., 191.’

line 3: Adda new paragraph.

“We may refer in the present place -+to the activities
of the Commission Archeologique de 1’Indo-chine
attached to the archaeological section of the Comité
des travaux historiques et scientifiques, which was
established by a decree of the Minister of Public Ins-
truction in 1908. It started in the same year an
important Bulletin to receive and examine all commu-
nications relating to the conservation of archaeological
monuments in Indo-China. In actual practice the
activities of the school extended far beyond its narrow
TU UU

- 42.

. 44,

. 45.
- 47,
. 47.
. 48.

PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN RESEARCH 7

programme. The successive numbers of its Bulletin

_ contained inventories of ndo-Chinese sculptures

existing in public and private collections within
and outside France, such as the Catalogue des pieces
originales de sculpture khmere conservees au Musée
indo-chinois du Trocadero et au Musée Guimet by
George Coedés (BCAI., 1910), and the Catalogue des
sculptures Cames et Khmeres du Musée royal d’ ethno-
graphie da Berlin by H. Sténner (BCAI., 1912).
Among other topics treated in the Bulletin were
various questions of Indo-Chinese archaeology and
epigraphy. Such were Les bas reliefs de Baphuon
by Louis Finot (BCAI., 1910), Les bas-reliefs d° Ang-
kor Vat by George Coedés (BCAI.. 1911) and Les
inscriptions du Bayon by George Coedés, (BCAI.,
1913). In the same Journal (BCAI., 1911) Coedés
published his Index Alphabetique pour le Cambodge
de M. Aymonier. The Commission finally pub-
lished a number of monographs such as Le Bayon
d’Angkor Thom, Bas-reliefs publies par les soins de
la commission Archéologique de I’Indo-chine, (2 vols.

Paris, 1910-13) and Les Monuments du Cambodge,

Etude d'architecture khmere publies par L. Delaporte,
fasc. 1, 1914, fasc. 2, 1920, fasc. 3’.
line 34: After Dharanindravarman II add:
“See Coedés, Journal Asiatique, 1920, p. 96’.
line 4: After Buddha add:.

‘A statue of Vajradhara at Bantei Chmar has been
since identified by Goloubew (JISOA., vol. V, 1937)
as a portrait of Jayavarman VII, ‘the living Buddha’’.

line 12: For 1921-24 read 1921-26.

line 27: After has held add: (JAL., 1937).
line 34: After the same scholar add: loc, cit.
line 7: After monuments add-

‘In the branch of Cambodian iconography we may
mention the comprehensive paper (in French) by

Louis Finot called Lokegvara en Indo-chine (Etudes
ri U.N. GHOSHAL

Asiatiques 1). Some supplementary notes have been
added by U. M Ghoshal, Note on a_ type of
Lokegvara in Cambodge, (JGIS., V. January, 1938),
Some Indian Parallels of Lokesvara types in Indo-
China; (Ibid., July, 1938). The iconography of the
Khmer ‘Crowned Buddha’ has been discussed by P.
Mus (BEFEO., XXVIII), while Bosch has contributed
(BEFEO., XXXI]) a valuable monograph (in French)
on The Lingodbhavamiirti of Siva in Indo-China’.
P. 48. line 24: After ‘civilization’ add:

‘In BEFEO. 1929, Coedés has furnished new data
bearing on the chronology and genealogy of the dynasty
of kings from Jayavarman VI to Jayavarman VIP.

P. 48. line 36: After Laos add:

‘started respectively in 1925 and 1915’.

P. 49. line 2: For students read studies. Add:

‘Mention may be made in this connection of the
various publications in which the French School has
sought from time to time to communicate its activi-

ties. In 1917 Emile Senart presented his report on
the activities of the School to the famous Academy
of Inscriptions and Belles-Lettres in Paris. His exam-
ple was followed successively by H. Cordier who
submitted two Reports covering the period from
1918 to 1920, by L. Finot who presented his Report
for the years 1920 to 1926 and by A. Foucher who
did the same for the period 1926 to 1930. Mean-
while Finot published (BEFEQ,, 1921) a complete
summary of the activities of the School from its origin
to 1920. The school, which celebrated its twenty-fifth
anniversary by publishing two volumes of Etudes
Asiatiques in 1925, started a quarterly series of chro-
nicles (Cahiers) in 1934’.

P. 51 line 8: For vol. VIII read vol. VII.

P. 52 line 2: After ‘so forth’ add:

‘It was followed by another volume containing the

plates and albums.’
PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN RESEARCH 73

P. 52. line 15: For BEFEO., XXXII, read BEFEO., XXXI.

P. 56. line 7: For Candi read Chandi.

P. 58. lines 23-26: For on the site of...... inscription read.
“These were noticed in the Oudheid-kundig Verslag,
(1937), while a popular account was given by A. J.
Bernct-Kempers in ABIA., XII, pp. 51-53.

P. 53. lines 34-35: For These have been...... behefs read.
“These remains were reported in Oudheidkundig
Verslag 1936, while a popular account was publish-
by W. F. Stutterheim in ABIA., XI, pp. 25-30’.

P. 63. line 32: After Batavia-Leider 1925 add:

In his paper The Ramdyana in Indonesia (BSOS.,
IV) the same scholar has compared parallel versions
of the Ramayana in Indo-China (Ramakien in Siam,
Hikajat Seri Rama in Malay, Serat Rama in Java
and Madura, Ramayana in Bali) with one another
and with the [ndian versions’.

P. 66. line 15: After B.K.1., vol. XC. add:

‘In her learned work Ganesa. A monography on
the elephant-faced god. With an introduction by
Alfred Foucher. Oxford, 1936. Alice Getty described
the well-known Javanese images of Ganesa along
with the Buddhist Ganesas of Endere and Tun Huang
in Central Asia and the Ganesas of Cambodia and
Champa’.

P. 73. line. 1: After JGIS., vol. I], add:

According to R. HeinewGeldern (Archaeology and
Art in Sumatra), Gupta, South Indian and Javanese
influences affected the Sumatran art prior to and
during the Srivijaya period, but these could not efface
the indigenous style’. .

P. 73. line 28: After the 7th century add:

‘We may refer lastly to the work of J. Tideman
(Hindoe-invloed in Noorde-lijk Batakland, Amster-
dam, 1936) describing Hindu-Javanese and South-
Indian influences upon Batak culture’.

P, 79. line 1: For called read call.

10
APPENDIX I
GENERAL BIBLIOGRAPHY

Annual Bibliography of Indian Archaeology, Kern Institute,
Leiden, vols. I-XII (1926-37), Leiden, 1928-1939.

Bibliographie Bouddhique, tomes I-VI] (1928-36), Paris,
1930-37.

Bibliotheca indo-sinica. Dictionnaire bibliographique des
ouvrages relatifs a l’Indo-Chine, par Henri Cordier.

Ibid., Tome | Birmanie, Assam, Siam et Laos, Paris 1912.

lbid., Tome 11 Péninsule Malaise, Paris 1913,

lbid., Tome III Indo-Chine Francaise, Paris 1914.

lbid., Tome |V Indo-Chine Frangaise, Paris 1914.

[bid., Index, par Mme. M. A. Roland-Cabaton, Paris 1932.

Bibliographie de ’Indo-Chine Frangaise (1913-26), par Paul
Boudet et Rémy Bourgeois, Hanoi 1929.

Ibid. (1927-29), Hanoi 1932.

lbid. 1930, Hanoi 1933.

Bulletin de la Commission Archéologique de l'Indo-Chince,
Annés 1917-30; H. L’archéologie indo-chinoise de 1917 4
1930, par L. Finot.

Balletin de UlUEcole Frangaise d'Extréme Orient, XXI
(1921):—L’Ecole Frangaise d'Extréme Orient depuis
son origine jusqu’en 1920.

Ibid. Index Generale des tomes 1-XX.

Ibid. XXXII, 1932. Index Generale des tomes XXI-XXX.
APPENDIX II

LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS OF PERIODICALS

A.B.1. A.
A. K.M.:

Ann. Rep.

B.C. Aw.

B.E.F.E. O.:

-

USED IN THE TEXT

Annual Bibliography of Indian Archaeology;
Leyden.
Abhandlungen fiir die Kunde des Morgen-

landes.

Annual Report of the Archaeological Survey
of India, Delhi.

Bulletin de la Commission Archéologique
de l’Indo-chine, Paris.

Bulletin de lEcole Francaise d'Extréme
Orient, Hanoi.

Bijdragen tot de Taal-, Land— en Volken-
kunde van Nederlandsch-Indié, uitgegeven
door het Koninklijk Instituut voor Taal-,
Land— en Volkenkunde van Nederlandsch-
Indié, The Hague.

Bulletin of the School of Oriental Studies,
London.

Indian Art and Letters, London.

Journal Asiatique, Paris.

Journal of the American Oriental Society,
_ Harvard.

Journal of the Asiatic Society of Bengal,
Calcutta.

.: Journal of the Bihar & Orissa Research

Seman “ay

Society, Patna.

Journal of the Greater India Society, Calcutta.
Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society of Great

- Britain and Ireland, London.

: Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society, Malay

Branch, Singapore.
J.I. 8.0. A.:
J.S8.8.:

Med. der kon
Ak. van Wet:
R. A. A.:

S.P.A. W.:

T. B. Gv: 0

Z.D.M.G.:

U. N. GHOSHAL

Journal of the Indian Society ‘of Oriental
Art, Calcutta.

Journal of the Siam Society, Bangkok.

Mededeelingen der Koninklijke Akademie
van Wetenschappen, Afd. Letterkunde.
Revue des Arts Asiatiques, Annales du
Musée Guimet, Paris.

Sitzungsberichte der Preussischen A kademie
der Wissenschaften, Berlin.

Tijdschrift voor Indische Taal-, Land- en
Volkenkunde, uitgegeven door het Konin-
klijke Bataviaasch Genootschap van kuns-
ten en Wetenschappen, Batavia.

Zeitschrift der Deutschen Morgenldndischen
Gesselschaft, Leipzig. ,
APPENDIX Ill

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF WORKS ON GREATER INDIA
(1917-1942)

AFGHANISTAN

Barger, Evert and Wright, -Philip: Excavations in the Swat
Valley and Explorations in the Oxus territories of
Afghanistan. (Memoirs of the Archaeological Survey.
of India, No. 64, Delhi, 1941).

Barthoux, J., Les fouilles de Hadda, tome lil, Figures et
figurines, [Mémoires de la délégation archéologique
en Afghanistan, tome IV], Paris, 1930.

., Les fouilles de Hadda, tome 1, Stipas et sites,
{Mémoires ......... tome IV]. Paris, 1933.

Foucher, A., Etudes sur art Bouddhique de l’Inde, Tokyo.

Godard, A., Godard, J., Hackin. J., Les Antiquités Bouddhi-
ques de Bamiiyan, [Mémoires ...... , tome II]. Paris-
Bruxelles, 1928. |

Hackin, J., L’ocuvre de la Délégation Archéologique fran-
caise en Afghanistan (1922-32); 1 Archéologie boud-
dhique, Tokyo, 1933.

—_____—.,'L’ art bouddhique de la Bactriane et Porigine de
V'art gréco-bouddhique (Bulletin archeologique publié
par la section historique de 1l’Académie Afghane,
fasc. |, Kabul, 1937.

Hackin, J., avec la collaboration de Carl, J.—Nouvelles
recherches archéologiques a4 Bamiyan, {Mémoires...
tome, Iff]. Paris, 1933.

., Recherches archéologiques au Col de Khair
-Khaneh prés de Kabul, [Mémoires......, tome VII].
Paris, 1936.

., avec la collaboration de Mme. J. R. Hackin—
Recherches archéologique 4 Begram, tome |, texte,
tome II, planches, [Mémoires...tome IX]. Paris,

1939,

ad " U.N. GHOSHAL

Rowland, Benjamin, The Wall-paintings of India, Central
Asia and Ceylon: A Comparative Study. With an
introductory essay on the Nature of Buddhist Art by
Ananda K. Coomaraswamy, Boston, 1938.

[For articles published in JGIS., etc. see text].

CENTRAL ASIA

Andrews, F. H., Catalogue of Wall Paintings from Ancient
shrines in Central Asia and Seistan, recovered by Sir
Aurel Stéin. Described by F. H. Andrews, Delhi,
1933.

., Central Asian Antiquities Museum, New Delhi.
Descriptive Catalogue of Antiquities recovered by Sir
Aurel Stein during his exploration in Central Asia,
Kansu and Eastern Jran. Delhi, 1935,
Burrow, T.,—The Language of the Kharosthi Documents
' from Chinese Turkestan, Cambridge, 1937.

———-—-., A Translation of the Kharosthi Documents from
Chinese Turkestan, London, 1940.

Chakravarti, N. P., L’Udanavarga sanscrite, Paris, 1930.

Gauthiot, R., et Benveniste, E., Essai de grammaire Sog-
dienne, lere partie par R. Gauthiot, Paris, 192];
2me partie par E. Benveniste, Paris, 1929.

Griinwedel, A., Alt-Kutscha, Berlin, 1920.

Hackin, J., Recherches archéologiques en Asie Centrale,
(1931). Paris, 1936.

Hoffmann, Helmuth, Bruchstiicke des Atanatika Sutra, aus
den Zentral-asiatischen Sanskrit-Kanon der Buddhis-
ten, Kéniglich Preussische Turfan Expeditionen,
Kleinere Sanskrit-Texte, Heft. V. Leipzig, 1939.

Kharosthi-inscriptions discovered by Sir Aurel Stein in
Chinese Turkestan, Part I Text of inscriptions dis-
covered at Niya site, 190], transcribed and edited by
A. M. Boyer, E. J. Rapson and E, Senart, Oxford
1920. Part I] Text of inscriptions discovered at the
Niya, Endere and Lou-lan sites, 1906-7, transcribed
and edited (as above), Oxford, 1927. Fart lll, Text of
PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN RESEARCH 79

inscriptions discovered at the Niya and Lou-lan
sites, 1913-14, transcribed and edited by E. J. Rapson
and P. S. Noble, Oxford, 1929.

Konow, Sten, Saka Studies, London, 1932.

Kozloff-Filchner, Mongolei, Amdo und die Tote Stadt Chara-
Choto, Die Expedition der Russischen Geographis-
chen Gesselschaft, 1907-9. Autorisierte tibersetzung
von Dr. L. Breitfuss und P. G. Zeidler, Berlin, 1925.

Le Coq, A. von, Die Buddhistischen Spdtantike in Mittelasien
I] Die Plastik; 11 Die Manichdischen Miniaturen; \I] Die
Wandmalereien; IV Atlas zu den Wandmale-
reien; V Neue Bildwerke 1; V1 Neue Bildwerke Il;
VIL Neue Bildwerke II] (Ausgewahlt und bearbeitet
von E. Waldschmidt). Berlin, 1922-24.

—— ., Bilder-Atlas zur Kunst und Kultur-Geschichte
Mittel-Asiens, Berlin, 1925.

————., Auf Hellas Spuren in Ost-Turkistan, Leipzig, 1926
(English tr. by Anna Barwell under the title “Buried
Treasures of Chinese Turkestan; an account of the
activities and adventures of the second and third
German expeditions, London, 1928).

Leumann, E., Das Nordarische (Sakische) Lehrgedicht des
Buddhismus. Text und itbersitzung. Aus dem
Nachlass hg. von Manu Leumann, AKM., XX, Heft
] 1933; Heft II 1934.

Lévi, Sylvain, Fragments de Textes Koutchéens. Udana-
varga, Udanastotra, Udandlarnkara et Karmavibhanga
publiés et traduits avec un vocabulaire et une intro-
ducfion sur le ‘‘tokharien’’, Paris, 1933.

Liiders, H., Bruchstiicke buddhistcher Dramen, Kéniglich
Preussische Turfan Expeditionen. Kleinere Sanskrit
Texte. Heft 1, Leipzig, 1911. |

.. Bruchstiicke der Kalpanamanditika des Kumara-
lata (Kleinere Sanskrit Texte, Heft 2, Leipzig, 1926).

Matsumoto, -Ejichi, Tonkd-ga no kenkyii. Zuzo-hen, Vol. I
Text. Vol. If Plates, Tokyo.

Pelliot, P., Les grottes de Touen Houang; Peintures et sculp-

x * U.N, GHOSHAL

tures Bouddhiques des époques des Wei, des T’ang
et des Song, tomes 1-3, Paris, 1920; tomes 4-5,
Paris, 1921;. tome 6, Paris, 1924.

Reichelt Hans, Die Sogdischen Handschriftenreste des
Britischen Museums, in umschrift und mit tiberset-
zung herausgegeben, | Teil, Die Buddhistischen

Texte, Heidelberg, 1928. - -
Sieg, E., and Siegling, W., Tocharische Sprachreste,
Berlin, 1921.

——__—_—., Tocharische Grammatik, Gottingen, 1931.

StHel Holstein, Baron A. von, The Kdsgyapaparivarta, a
Mahayana Sitra of the Ratnakata class edited in the
original Sanskrit, ‘in ‘Tibetan and in ; Chinese.
‘ Shanghai, 1926.

Stein, Sir Aurel, Serindia, Detailed report of explorations
in Central Asia and Westernmost China carried out
and described under the orders of H. M. Indian
Govt. Vols. I-Ill Text; Vol. IV. Plates; Vol.
V Charts, London, 192].

———-—-., The Thousand Buddhas. Ancient Buddhist
paintings from the Cave temples of Tun-huang on
the west frontier of China recovered and described
by Sir Aurel Stein, Vol. 1 Text; Vol. II Plates.
London, 1921.

Takakusu, J. and Watanabe, K., Taisho Shinsu daizokyo
(Revised edition of Taisho Canon).

Takakusu, J., Showa Hobo Somokuroku (Catalogue of Taisho
Tripitaka) Tokyo, 1929.

Thomas, F. W., A Ramayana Story in Tibetan from Chinese

Turkestan in Indian Studies in honour of Charles
Rockwell Lanman, pp. 193-212. Harvard Oriental
Press, Cambridge, Mass, 1921.

., Indianism and its expansion. Calcutta University
Readership Lectures. Calcutta, 1942. [M. Greater
India: Central Asia: VI Greater India: Tibet:
VIL Greater India: Further India and Malayasia.]

.. Tibetan Literary Texts and Documents concern-
iny Chinese Turkestan Pt. Hl.
PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN RESEARCH 81

Uehara, Y., Shin-Saiikki (New record of Western countries).
Tokyo, 1937. .
Waldschmidt, E., Bruchstiicke des Bhikguni Pratimoksa der
Sarvdstivadins (Kleinere Sanskrit Texte, Heft -IHI)

Leipzig 1926. ;

., Bruchstiicke buddhisticher sitras aus den zentra-
lasiatischen Sanskrit—Kanon, I herausgegeben und
im zusammenhang mit ihren Parallel-versionen bear-
beitet. (Kleinere Sanskrit Texte, Heft IV), Leipzig.
1932.

_ Waley, A., A Catalogue of Paintings from Tun-huang by
Sir Aurel Stein, preserved in the sub-department of
Oriental Prints and Drawings in the British Museum
and in the Museum of Central Asian Antiquities,
Delhi, with preface by L. Binyon. London,. 1931.

Yabuki, K., Meisha Youn (‘‘Echoes of Singing Sands’’).
Eng. title Rare and unknown Chinese Ms, remains
of Buddhist literature, discovered in Tun-huang,
collected by Sir Aurel Stein and preserved in the
British Museum, Tokyo, 1931.

..Meisha Youn Kaisetsu (‘Explanatory Text of
Echoes of Singing Sands’’). Tokyo, 1933.

[For articles published in SPAW., BSOS., AKM., IHQ.,
Bulletin of National Library of Peiping, Academia
Sinica, etc, see text].

TIBET

A Catalogue Index of the Tibetan Buddhist Canons (Bkah-
hgyur and Bstan-hgyur). Sendai: Téhoku Imperial
University Aided by Saité gratitude Foundation,
1934.

A Complete Catalogue of the Tibetan Buddhist Canons
(Bkah-hgyur and Bstan-hgyur). Edited by Hakuji Ui,
Mametada Suzuki, Yensh6 Kanakura and Tokan
Tada. Sendai: Téhoku Imperial University, Aided
by Saité_ gratitude Foundation, 1934.

Bacot, J., Dictionnaire Tibétain-Sanskrit par Tse-ring Ouang

il
& , U. N. GHOSHAL

Gyal (Che Rin dBan_ rGyal). Reproduction Photo-
type. Paris, 1930.

Bell, Sir Charles, The Religion of Tibet, Oxford, 1931.

Bhattacharya, Vidhushekhara, Nydyapravesga Pt. II, Tibetan
text edited with Introduction, notes, appendices etc.,
by Pandit Vidhushekhara Bhattacharya, G.O.S, No.
XXXIX, Baroda 1927.

.. The Chatuhéataka of Aryadeva, Sanskrit and
Tibetan text with copious extracts from the com-
mentary of Candrakiriti. Reconstructed and edited
by Vidhushekhara Bhattacharya. Part I. (All pub- .
lished). Calcutta, 1931.

Binyon, Laurence, L’art asiatique au British Museum.
Sculpture et Peinture. Ars Asiatica, VI, Paris

. Bruxelles, 1925.

Getty, Alice, The Gods of Northern Buddhism, their history,
iconography and progressive evolution through the
Northern Buddhist countries, with a general introduc-
tion on Buddhism. 2nd ed. London, 1929.

Hackin, J., La sculpture indienne et tibétaine au musée
Guimet, Paris, 1931.

Lalou, Marcelie, Catalogue du fonds tibétaine de la Bib-
liothéque Nationale. Paris, 1931.

Obermiller, E., Indices Verborum Sanskrit-Tibetan and
Tibetan-Sanskrit to the Nydyavindu ef Dharmakirti
and the Nadyavindutika of Dharmottara compiled
by E, Obermiller with a preface by Th. Stcherbatsky
from the edition of the Sanskrit and Tibetan texts
by Th. Stcherbatsky. I Sanskrit-Tibetan Index. Bib.
Buddhica XXIV, 1927. II]. Tibetan-Sanskrit Index.
Bib. Buddhica XXV, 1928.

—__————., History of Buddhism (chos-hbying) by Bu-ston,
Part I, The Jewelry of Scripture, Heidelberg 1931,
Part Il, The History of Buddhism in India and
Tibet, Heidelberg, 1932.

Pascalis, Claude, Musée Louis Finot. La collection tibétaine.

Hanoi 1935.

PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN RESEARCH 83

Sakurabe, B., A Comparative Analytical Catalogue of the
Kanjur division of the Tibetan Tripitaka edited in
Pekin during the K’ang hsi era and at present kept in
the library of the Otani Daigaku, in which the con-
tents of each sitra are collated with their corres-
pondin, parts in existing Sanskrit, Pali and Chinese
fexts and in which page references to the Narthang
and Derge editions of the Tripitaka are also entered,
Kyoto, Otani Daigaku Library Pt. I, 1930; Pr. Il,
1931; Pe. I, 1932.

Sanskrit Texts from Tibet, published by the Bihar and Orissa
Research Society. |. Varttikalamkdra of Prajiiakara-
gupta, ed. Rahula Sankrityayana. Il. Vadanydya of
Acharya Dharmakirti with the commentary of
Acharya Santaraksita. ed. Rahula Sankrityayana.
Hl. Adhyardhagataka of Matrceta, ed. K. P. Jayaswal
and Rahula Sankrityayana. IV. Vigrahavydvartani of
Acharya Nagarjuna with the author’s own commen-
tary, ed. K. P. Jayaswal and Rahula Sankrityayana.
V. Pramanavarttika of Acharya Dharmakirti, ed.
Rahula Sankrityayana.

Stcherbatsky. Th., Tibetan Text of Abhidharmakoga, Kari-
kas and Bhasyas. Part | ed. Th. Stcherbatsky. Bib.
Buddica, No. XX, 1907.

., and Obermiller, E., AbhisamayGlamkéra Prajfida-
paramitd-upadesga-sastra, ed. Th. Stcherbatsky and
E. Obermiller. Bib. Buddhica XXIII, Leningrad,
1929.

Tucci, Guiseppe, The Nydyamukha of Dignaga, the oldest

Buddhist text on Logic, after Chinese and Tibetan
materials. Quinziéme cahier des Materialen de Max
Walleser, 1930.
., Commentaries on the Prajfiiapdaramitas, Vol. I.
The Abhisamaydlamkaraloka of Haribhadra and
the Astasahasrika-prajhaparamita edited with Intro-
duction and Indices by Guiseppe Tucci. G.O.S.

No. XLIX, 1932.
84 U. N. GHOSHAL

> 398

., Indo-Tibetica, | “‘me’od rten’’ e “‘ts’a ts’a’’ nel
Tibet indiano ed occidentale. Contributo allo studio
dell’arte religiosa tibetana e del suo significato.
Reale Accademia d'Italia, Studi e Documenti. Roma,
Reale Accademia d'Italia, 1932.

———-—., Indo-Tibetica, I] Rin c’en bzan po e la rinacista del
Buddhismo nel Tibet intorno al mille.....................
Reale Accademia d'Italia, 1933.

——————.., Indo-Tibetica li]. I Templi del Tibet Occidentale
e il loro simbolismo Artistico. Partie 1: Spiti e
Kunavar ... Roma, 1935. Partie -I]. Tsaparang,
Roma, 1936.

————., Hitherto unknown Tibet, Painting recalling ithe
Art of Ajanta. [Illustrated London News, Jan. 18, 1936.

., Santi e Brigandi nel Tibet ignoto. (Diario della
spedizione nel Tibet occidentale, 1935). Milano, 1937.

——_———., and Ghersi, E.: Cronaca della Missione ‘scientifica
Tucci nel Tibet Occidentale (1933). Roma, 1934,

Weller, Friederich, Das Leben des Buddha von Aévaghosa.
Tibetisch und Deutsch, I. Teil, Leipzig, 1926, II Teil,
Leipzig, 1928 (Verdffentlichungen des Forschung-
sinstituts fiir Wergleichende Religionsgeschichte an
der Universitat Leipzig. Hg. von Prof. Dr. Hans
Haas, Zweite Reihe, Heft 8).

Wogihara, U.,. Abhisamaydlamkaraloka  Prajfiaparamita-
vyakhya, the work of Haribhadra, together with the
t¢xt commented on. Tokyo, 1932.

Yamaguchi, Susumu, Examen de l’object de la connaissance
(Alambanapariksa). Textes tibétain et chinois et
traduction des stances et du commentaire, J.A..,

Jan.,-Mars., 1929..

MONGOLIA AND MANCHURIA

Haenish, Erich, Altan Gerel: Die West-Mongolisch Fassung
des goldglanzsitra nach einer Handschrift der Kgl.
Bibliothek in Kopenhagen, 1929. Verlag der Asia
Major, Leipzig. °
PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN’ RESEARCH 85,

Radlov, V. V. and Malov, S. E., Suvarnaprabhdsa (Uiguric
text), Parts I-VII], Bib. Buddhica XVII. Leningrad,
1915-17.

Vladimircov, B. Y., Bodhicaryavatara de Sdntideva, traduc-
tion mongole de Chos-Kyji’od-zer. 1 Texte Bibliotheca
Buddhica XXVIII. Leningrad, 1929,

BURMA

Duroiselle, Charles, A List of Inscriptions found in Burma.
Part |. The List of Inscriptions arranged in order of
their dates, Rangoon, 1921.

.. The Ananda Temple of Pagan. (Memoirs of the
Archaeological Survey of India No. 56), Delhi, 1937.

Harvey, G. E., History of Burma from the earliest times to
the 10th March 1824, the beginning of the English
conquest, London, 1925.

Luce, G, H., and Tin, Pe Maung, /nscriptions of Burma.

| University of Burma Oriental Series Publications.
Portfolio I. 493-599 B.E. (A.D. 1131-1237), 109 plates,
Oxford, 1933. Portfolio IJ], Down to 630 B.E. (1268
A.D.), 115 plates. Portfolio III, 630-662 B.E. (1268-
1300 A.D.), 121 plates, London, 1939.

Ray, Nihar-ranjan, Brahmanical gods in Burma, Calcutta,
1932.

————,, Sanskrit Buddhism in Burma, Calcutta, 1935.

[For papers published in the Journal of the Burma Research
Society, Epigraphia Birmanica, Epigraphia Indica,
Annual Reports of the Archaeological Survey of India,
I.GIUS., J1S.0,A,, J.A., J.R.A.S., etc., see text].

SIAM

Coedés, George, Recueil des Inscriptions du Siam. Premiére
partie, Bangkok, 1924. Deuxiéme partie, Bangkok,
1929.
., Les Collections Archéologiques du Musée National
de Bangkok, Ars Asiatica, XII, Paris et Bruxelles,
1928.
86 # _ U.N. GHOSHAL

Le May, Reginald, The Coinage of Siam, Bangkok, 1932.

., Buddhist Art in Siam, a concise history with a
foreword by Sir John Marshall. With an index, two
maps and eighty pages of illustrations in collotype.
Cambridge, 1938. :

Quaritch-Wales, H. G., Siamese State Ceremonies, their
history and function, London, 1931].

Salmony, A., Sculpture in Siam, London, 1925.
.. La Sculpture au Siam, Paris et Bruxelles, 1925.

————., Die Plastik in Siam, Hellerau, 1926.

Wood, W. A. R., A History of Siam from the earliest times
to the year A.D, 1781, London, 1926.

[See text for articles published in B.E.F.E.O., J.A., J.S.S.,

R.A.A., J.A.L. A.B.1.A., Burlington Magazine, etc.].

CAMBODIA

Aymonier, E., Histoire de l’ancien Cambodge, Strassbourg,
1920.

Cahiers de l’Ecole Francaise d’Extréme Orient, Nos. 1-26,
Hanoi, 1934-41.

Chatterji, Bijan Raj, Indian Cultural Influences in Cambodia,
Calcutta, 1928.

Coedés, George & Parmentier, H., Listes générales des ins-
criptions et des monuments du Champa et du
Cambodge. Inscriptions par George Coedés. Monu-
ments par Henri Parmentier, Hanoi, 1923.

Coedés, George, Bronzes Khmer, Ars Asiatica V, Paris,
1923.

., Inscriptions du Cambodge, éditées et traduites
par George Coedés, Vol. |. avec | volume de planches
formant le tome VI. des Inscriptions du Cambodge
publiées sous les auspices de l’Académie des Ins-
criptions et Belles-Lettres, Hanoi, 1937.

Dupont, Pierre, Musée Guimet. Catalogue des collections
indo-chinoises précédé d’études par Ph. Stern, J.
Auboyer, G. de Coral-Rémusat et P, Dupont, Paris,
1934,

—

PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN’ RESEARCH 87

Etudes asiatiques publées a l'occasion du 25e anniversaire

Finot,

Finot,

de I’Ecole Francaise d’Extréme Orient, 2 vols. Paris,
1927.

L., Parmentier, H., et Goloubew, V., Le temple
d’ISvarapura (Bantay Sréi), Le Monument, étude
architecturale par Henri Parmentier; Les Images par
Victor Goloubew; Les Inscriptions et l'histoire par
Louis Finot. Mémoires Archéologique publiés par
Ecole Francaise d’Extréme ‘Orient, Tome I, Paris,
1926.
L., Goloubew, V. et Coedés, G., Le temple d’ Angkor
Vat. Premiére partie: L’ Architecture du Monument,
I. Preface de Louis Finot, planches | & 72; I] Planches
73 a 150. Paris et Bruxelles 1929. Deuxiéme partie:
La Sculpture Ornamentale du temple, |, Introduction
par V. Goloubew. planches 151 A 218. II. Planches
219 a 286. Paris et Bruxelles,- 1930. Troisiéme
partie: La galerie des bas-reliefs, |. Introduction par
G. Coedés, planches 287 & 350, Pavillons d’angle; II.
Planches 35] a 496. Ill. Planches 497 & 608. Paris
et Bruxelles 1932 (Mémoires Archéologiques pub-
liés par Il’Ecole Francaise d’Extréme Orient,
tome Il).

Groslier, G., Recherches sur les Cambodgiens, Paris, 1921.

—., La Sculpture Khmére ancienne, Paris, 1925.

, Arts et archéologie Khmers. Revue des Re-
cherches sur les Arts, les Monuments, et l’Ethno-
graphie du Cambodge depuis les origines jusqud nos

jours. Tomes I-ll, Paris, 1921-26.

—_——_——., Les Collections Khmers du Musée Albert Sarraut

& Phnom-Penh.  Paris-Bruxelles, 1931.

Inscriptions du Cambodge. Publiées sous les auspices de

l’Académie des Inscriptions et Belles-Lettres, Tomes

I-V, Paris 1926-31.

Marchal, Henri, Musée Louis Finot. La Collection Khmére.

Hanoi, 1939.
.. Guide archéologique aux temple d’Angkor.
U. N. GHOSHAL

Angkor Vat, Angkor Thom et les monuments du
Petit et du Grand Circuit. Paris et Bruxelles, 1928.
(New English edition of the above by H. Marchal.
Saigon, 1933).

Parmentier, Henri, L’art Khmer primitif. 1. Texte, index,
table analitique, lexique des noms etrangers. Il. 4
cartes geographiques, 96 planches, 128 gravures et
une table générale des planches (vols. XXI et XXII
des Publications de lEcole Francaise d’Extréme
Orient, Paris, 1927).

., L’art Khmer Classique. Monuments du Quadrant
Nord-Est, Tome |]. Texte, Tome II. Planches. Paris,
1939. ,

Stern, Philippe, Le Bayon d’Angkor et l’évolution de l'art
Khmer. Etude et discussion de la chronologie des
monuments Khmers, Paris, 1927.

[See text for articles, published in B.E.F.E.O., J.A., 1.A.L.,

. R.A.A., J.GA.S., Etudes d’Orientalisme Linossier
etc.

CHAMPA

Majumdar, R. C., Ancient Indian Colonies in the Far East,
Vol. |. Champa. Greater India Seciety’s publication,
no. I, Lahore, 1927.

Maspero, Georges, Le Royaume de Champa, Paris et
Bruxelles, 1928.

Parmentier, H., Inventaire archéologique de I’Indo-Chine.
II. Monuments Chams de I’ Annam. Texte, tomes [-Il.
Planches, 2 albums. 1918-19.

., Les sculptures Chams au Musée de Tourane.
Ars Asiatica, Paris, 1922.
[For papers published in B.E.F.E.O., A.B.1A., J.G1S.,

etc. see text.].

JAVA

Bibliotheca Javanica, No. 2. Tantri Kadmandaka een oud-
Javaansche Pafitjatantra-bewerking, in tekst en verta-
PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN RESEARCH 89

ling, uitgegeven door Dr. C. Hooykaas, 1931; No, 3.
Smaradahana, oud-Javaansche tekst met vertaling,
uitgegeven door R. Ng, Dr. Poerbatjaraka, 1931; No, 4.
Het oud-Javaansche Nitigastra, uitgegeven door R.
Ng. Dr. Poerbatjaraka, 1933; No. 5. Het oud-
Javaansche Brahmadndapurdna, uitgegeven en van
aanteekeningen voorzien door Dr, J. Gonda 1932;
No. 6. Het oud-Javaansche Brahmdndapurana,
vertaald door Dr. J. Gonda 1933; No. 7A. Aant-
eekeningen bij het oud-javaansche Bhisma-parwa
door Dr. J. Gonda, 1937.

Bosch, F. W. K., De Bhadracari op den hoofdmuur der
vierde gaanding van den Baraboedoer. B. K. |. 1938.

Dupont, Pierre, Musée Guimet. Catalogue des Collections
indo-chinoises par Pierre Dupont. Précédé d’études
par Philippe Stern, Jeannie Auboyer, G. de Coral-
Rémusat, Pierre Dupont Paris, 1934.

Feestbundel uitgegeven door Koninklijk Bataviaasch Gennoot-
schap van Kunsten en wetenschappen bij gelegenheid
van zijn 150—Jarig bestaan 1778-1928. Weltevreden,
Vol. 1. 1929.

Getty, Alice, Ganesa. A monography on the elephant-faced
god. With an Introduction by Alfred Foucher.
Oxford at the Clarendon Press, 1936.

Gonda, J., - Agastyaparwa, uitgegeven, gecommenteerd en
vertaald 1933, 1935, 1936.

Goris, R., Bijdrage tot de Kennis der oud-Javaansche en
Balineesche Theologie, Leyden, 1926.

Kats, J., Het Ramdyana op Javaansche Tempel-Reliefs (The
Ramayana as sculptured in reliefs in Javanese
temples). Batavia-Leiden, 1925.

Krom, N. J., Inleiding tot de Hindoe-Javaansche Kunst,
Tweede Herziene druk. I-II, text. III], plates. The
Hague, 1923.

., L’art Javanais dans les Musées de Hollande et
de Java, Ars Asiatica Vill. Paris et Bruxelles 1926.

12
go ‘ U.N. GHOSHAL

., De levensgeschiedenis van den Buddha op Boro-
budur. The Hague, 1926.

.. The Life of Buddha on the Stapa of Barabudur
according to the Lalitavistara text. The Hague, 1926.

—_-—_—-—., Borobudur, Archaeological Description, 2 vols.
The Hague, 1927.

., Hindoe-Javaansche Geschiedenis, 2nd ed. The
Hague, 1931.

Krom, N. J., & Erp, T. van, Beschrijving van Barabudur,
Pt. “1. N. J. Krom, Archaeologisch Beschrijving,
Part I]. T. van Erp, Bouwkundige-Beschrijving, The
Hague, 1920, 1932.

Lelyveld, T. B. van, De Javaansche danskunst. Amsterdam,
1931.

., Le danse dans le théétre javanais, Paris, 1931.
1931.

Lévi, Sylvain, Recherches a Java et @ Bali, Leyden, 1929.
., Mahakarmavibhanga (Le grande classification des
actes) et Karmavibhangopadega (discussion sur le.
Mahdékarmavibhanga), Textes Sanscrits rapportés du
Nepal, édités et traduits avec le textes paralléles en
Sanscrit, en Pali, en tibétaine, en chinois, et en
Koutchéen; ouvrage illustré de quarte planches:
Le Karmavibhanga sur les bas-reliefs de Boro-boudour
a Java, Paris, 1932.

Majumdar, R. C., Ancient Indian Colonies in the Far East.
Vol. Il. Suvarnadvipa, Part 1. Political History,
Dacca, 1937. Part H. Cultural History, Calcutta,
1938.

Mythologie asiatique illustrée, Redigée sous le direction de
M. P.-L., Couchoud, par Mm. Cl. Huart, J. Hackin,
Mlle. R, Linossier, Mme, de Wilman-Grabowska,
Mm. H. Marchal, H. Maspero, S. Elisséev. Paris,
1928. [Eng. tr. of the above by F. M. Atkinson,
London. The above work deals also with the mytho-
logy of Tibet, Central Asia, Cambodia and Champa].

Nag, Kalidas, India and the Pacific World, Calcutta, 194],
PROGRESS OF GREATER INDIAN RESEARCH gl

Poerbatjaraka, L., Agastya in den Archipel, Leyden, 1926.

Prijohoetomo, M., Nawaruci, Inleiding, middel-Javaansche
Prozatekst vertaling door Prijohoetomo. Batavia,
1934.

Sarkar, Himansu Bhusan, [ndian Influences on the literature
of Java and Bali. Calcutta, 1934.

Stutterheim, W. F., Rama-Legenden und Rama-Reliefs in
Indonesien. Bands I-Il. Miinchen, 1925.

Wilsen, F. C., Die Buddha legende auf den Flachreliefs der
ersten Galerie des Stipa von Boro-Budur (Java).
Verkleinerte wiedergabe der Umrisszeichungen von

F.C. Wilsen. Leipzig, 1937.

Wulff, Den oudjavanske wirataparwa og dens Sanskrit
original. 1917.

[See text for articles published in B.E.F.E.O., B.K.I., T.B.G.,
Djawa, J.GA.S., etc. as well as for references in the
successive issues of Oudheidkundig Verslag and the
Koninklijk Bataviaasch Genootschap van Kunsten en
Wetenschappen Jaarboek}.

BALI

Callenfels, P. V. van Stem, Epigraphia Balica, I. Verhan-
delingen van het Koninklijk Bataviaasch Genootschap
van Kunsten en Wetenschappen, Vol. LXVI, Part 3.
Batavia, 1926.

Krom, N. J., Hindoe-Javaansche Geschiedenis. 1931.

Lévi, Sylvain, Sanskrit texts from Bali, G.O.S. No. LXVI.
1933.

Majumdar, R. C., Suvarnadvipa, Parts | & Il.

Moojen, P. A. J., Kunst op Bali inleidende studie tot de
bouwkunst. The Hague, 1926.

Stutterheim, W. F., Oudheden van Bali. 1. Heft. Oude rile
van Pedjeng. Text. Singaradja, Bali. Kirtya Liefrinck
van der Tuuk, 1929.
g2 "U.N. GHOSHAL

BORNEO AND CELEBES

Majumdar, R. C., Suvarnadvipa.
Midden-Oost Borneo Expeditie, 1925.
[For articles published in B.K.I., T.B.G., J.A.S.B., J.G.LS.,

etc., see text].

SUMATRA

Krom, N. J., De Soematraansche periode in de Javaansche

Geschiedenis. Leyden, 1919.

., Hindoe-Javaansche Geschiedenis. [Cited above].
Majumdar, R. C., Suvarnadvipa. [Cited above].
Schnitger, F. M., Oudheidkundige WVondsten in Padang

Lawas, Amsterdam, 1936.
————., Hindoe-Oudheden aan de Batang Hari, Leiden,

1936.

—~———., The Archaeology of Hindoo Sumatra, Leyden,

1937.

Stutterheim, W. F., A Javanese period in Sumatran History.
Surakarta, 1929,

[For articles published in B.E.F.E.O., B.KJ., O.V., J.A.,

J.G.LS., etc. see text].

MALAY

Evans, Ivor K. N., Papers on the Ethnology and Archaeology
of the Malay Peninsula. Cambridge, 1927.

Majumdar, R. C., Suvarnadvipa.

‘Quaritch-Wales, H. G., Archaeological Researches on
Ancient Indian colonization, 1940.

[For articles published in B.E.F.E.O., T.B.G., J.R.A.S.M.B.,
J.AS.B., J.G.LS., J.A., etc. see text].

CEYLON

Codrington, H. W., Ceylon Coins & Currency, Colombo,
1924,

————., A Short History of Ceylon, London, 1926.
PROGRESS OF GREAFER INDIAN RESEARCH 93

., Ancient Land Tenure and Revenue in Ceylon.
Colombo, 1938.
Coomaraswamy, A. K., History of Indian and Indonesian
Art, London, 1927.
.. Bronzes from Ceylon, chiefly in the Colombo
Museuin (Memoirs of the Colombo Museum).
Mendis, G. C., The Early History of Ceylon, 4th ed.,
Calcutta, 1940.

Smith, V. A., A History of Fine Art in India and Ceylon,
2nd ed., Oxford, 1930.

[For articles published in Ep. Zeylanica, Ceylon Journal of
Science Sec. G. Archaeology, ethnology  etc.,
Ann. Rep. of the Arch, Survey of Ceylon. A.B.1.A.,
J.G.1S., etc. see text]. .
NOTICES OF BOOKS

Amaravati Sculptures in the Madras Covernment
Museum: By C. Sivaramamurti, M.A., (Bulletin of the
Madras Government Museum), Madras 1942. pp. xviii+376
and 55 Plates. Government Press, Madras, Rs. 14/8.*

Amaravati, situated on the south bank of the Krishna
river in the Guntur district of the Madras Presidency, was
one of the great cities of India in the first two centuries before
Christ and the centuries immediately following. Its glory was
the magnificent Buddhist stipa with a drum adorned with
two tiers of casing slabs in bluish marble, the whole structure
being enclosed by an exquisitely carved railing in the same
materia] which was nearly six hundred feet in circumference
and thirteen or fourteen feet in height. ‘It has been estimated
that the railing alone provided a superficial area of 17,000.
square feet covered with delicate reliefs, while the stapa
itself, all the lower part of which was cased in carved stone,
had a diameter of 162 feet’. (A. K. Coomaraswamy, History
of Indian and Indonesian Art, p. 70), Revered as the principal
seat of one of the ancient Buddhist schools (the caityakas
of the Mahasanghika sect), the stiipa received successive
additions at the hands of pious devotees for a period of four
or five centuries (2nd century B.C. to c. 250 A.D.). In later
times it shared in the general neglect of Buddhist monuments
which was the index of the decay of the religion of the
Buddha in its homeland. Re-discovered by Col. Colin
Mackenzie in 1797, it has undergone more or less unsystematic
excavations for nearly a century, presenting before the year
1880, in the forceful language of M. Foucher (L’ Art Gréco-
Bouddhique du Gandhdra, tome II, p. 613), ‘a déplorable
odyssée des débris de ce merveilleux édifice’. Out of the
group of Amaravati marbles which it was possible to save
from destruction, an important collection found its way,
like the famous Elgin marbles of the Parthenon, into the

* A brief extract from this review was published by the present
writer in the Calcutta Statesman in its issue of December 13, 1942.
NOTICES OF BOOKS 95

British Museum in London. Another valuable collection was
deposited in the Madras Museum, while a few sculptures
were sent to the Indian Museum in Calcutta. ;

To Dr. James Burgess of the Archaeological Survey of
India, who was entrusted with the scientific excavation of
the monument :n 1881, we owe the first important monograph
on the subject. [t was published in 1887 under the title The
Buddhist Stipas of Amaravati and Jaggayyapeta. Since then
considerable additions have been made to our knowledge of
the famous stiipa by the discovery of fresh sculptures and
revised interpretations of older anes as well as the decipher-
ment of the inscriptions. In the present well-written mono-
graph the author has utilised the researches of previous
scholars (including the valuable notes of Mr. T. N. Rama-
chandran) as well as his own intensive studies to produce
an admirably comprehensive and up-to-date description of
the sculptures of the Madras Museum collection. While it is
much to be regretted that he had no opportunities of complet-
ing his study by utilising the British Museum or even the
Calcutta Museum collections, we are thankful to him for
providing us with something more than a mere descriptive
catalogue of the sculptures and inventory of the inscriptions.
For he has enriched his account within his compass with a
short, but valuable, historica] introduction, with an excellent
survey of the art, iconography and symbolism of the
monument, and last but not least, with a vivid and complete
picture of the culture and civilisation of the period accom-
panied with illustrative drawings of the sculptures and
copious references from Brahmanical and Buddhist literature.
A good bibliography, five valuable appendices (including
indices of personal and geographical names and a glossary
of words occurring in the inscriptions), a general index and
fifty-five plates with short explanatory notes complete this
fine monograph.

We propose to make a few remarks. Following the autho-
rity of Burgess, the author identifies (p.3) Hiuen Tsang’s
capital city of Tho-na-kie-tse-kia (Read T’e-na-ka-che-ka
96 NOTICES OF BOOKS

with Watters) with Amaravati, forgetting Watters’ criticism
(On Yuan Chwang, Vol. Il, p. 218) to the effect that Hiuen
Ysang is completely silent about the existence of the stupa
in that area. The author's further sugestion (p.4) that the
original stipa of Amaravati was built by Agoka rests on the
flimsiest grounds, while it is significant that not even the
tradition of such a construction was known to the industrious
Hiuen Tsang at the time of his visit in the 7th century.

The writer justifies (p. 16ff.) his chronological division of
the Amaravati sculptures into four periods, viz. c. 200-100
B.C., c. 100 A.D., c. 150 A.D. and c. 200-250 A.D., which is
based on the style of the sculptures and palaeography of the
inscriptions, by an elaborate comparison of motifs and techni-
que from the earliest to the latest times. In this connection we
are presented with a useful comparative “‘table of early
Indian sculptural periods’’ tracing the minute changes in
dress and ornament, in pose and motifs, in human and other
forms, for nearly a millennium, from the sculpture of Bharhut,
Ajanta Cave X, Amaravati I and Safichi (2nd cent. B.C.)
to those of the Pallava monuments (7th-8th centuries A. D.) It
must, however, be remembered that the art of Sajfichi itself
passed through a long course of development and decay. In
the sculptures of the Second and Third stapas (excepting the
gateway and the ground balustrade of the latter) as well as
the ground balustrade and stone casing of the Great Stipa
(2nd cent. B.C.) the early indigenous school retains much of
its primitive character. But the school reaches its climax in
the reliefs of the four gateways of the Great Stipa and the
single gateway of the Third stiipa (c. 50 B.C.). Further
developments may be traced in the detached images of the
4th and 5th centuries A.D. as well as those of the 6th and
7th centuries, The group of structures on the eastern terrace
of the Safichi Hill belonging to the late mediaeval period
mark the last stage in the development of the local art. (On
the above, see Sir John Marshall, A Guide to Sanchi,
pp. 11-25), Evidently the author, in drawing up his compa-
rative table, has ignored all but the first phase of the Sajici art.
NOTICES OF BOOKS’ 97

Equally regrettable is the author’s complete omission to
illustrate the interesting changes to which he draws attention,
with appropriate drawings.

In connecting (p. 44) ‘the art of such distant places as
Amaravati and Jaggayyapeta, Bharhut and Sanchi, Ajanta
and Bagh end beyond the seas at Borabudur’ (sic {), by
“common heredity’ with ‘the great Imperial art of the
Mauryas’ the author ignors the divison of Maurya art
into the official or court art of Agoka’s reign, which according
to most authorities was more or less of an exotic character,
and ihe art of the Early Indian Schoo! which was represented
at Bharhut and Sajichi. It is also to be regretted that the
author has failed to consider the views of M. Foucher
(op. cit., pp. 613-618) regarding the influence of the Gandhara
School upon the later art of Amaravati. The section on
iconography and symbolism (a more appropriate title would
have been ‘representations of Buddha, of demi-gods and of
real and mythical animals’) of the monument is good so
far as it goes. But the author has unfortunately failed to refer
to the valuable contributions made on the subject by Foucher
(op. cit.) and Vogel, (Ganga et Yamuna dans I’ iconographie
Brahmanique, Etudes Asiatiques, 1925 and Le Makara dans
la sculpture de I’Inde, Revue des Arts Asiatiques, Paris
1930), If he had referred to Vogel’s monograph last-named,
he would have found (op. dit., p. 94) the ancestry of
the Makara-motif to be traced beyond Bharhut and Amara-
vati to the crocodile figures on the facade of the Lomasa
Rishi Cave at the Barabar Hills near Gaya.

The author’s description of the various aspects of Indian
life in the light of the Amaravati sculptures of the third period
which is illustrated with appropriate drawings and explained
in the light of literary references is accurate and comprehen-
sive. But he might have referred to the important paper of
Dr. Moti Chandra, The History of Indian costume from the
first century A.D. to the beginning of the fourth century
(JISOA. 1940).

We have noticed a few misprints which may be corrected
98 ‘NOTICES OF BOOKS

in a future edition. Such are Rae, Bacchofer (p. xvii), Barnet
Kempers (pp. xvii, 153, 310), Tourner (p. 4), Simukha (p. 9),
Les sculpture (p. 32), and Khabho (p. 272). For loc. cit.
(pp. 3, 6, 14 etc.} read op. cit. The rendering of Sinyavada
(p.. 16) as Nihilism should be discarded in favour of the
more accurate term ‘Doctrine of Absolute Truth’. The
reference (p. 272) to Gunadhya’s Brhat-kathaé as a poem is
a slip. We do not know on what grounds Kalidasa is assigned
to the: Sunga period (p. 55). The want of diacritical marks
throughout the work is much to be regretted. It is difficult to
understand why the author should refer (p. 182 etc.) to late
Burmese Buddhist legends narrated by Spence Hardy as his
authorities for identification of the Amaravati sculptures. It
is also curious to find that for his account (p. 16) of incipient
schisms in Buddha’s life-time and for his interpretations of
sculptures of c. 150 A.D. he can quote no earlier authorities
than the Dhammapada commentary (pp. 187, 193, 195, 198,
199, 200, 202, 214 and 228). The same criticism applies to
his quotation of Dhammapdla’s commentray on the Theri-
gatha (p. 192) and of the Avaddana-kalpalata (p. 215) for the

interpretation of other sculptures of the same period.

U. N. GHOSHAL

Paini The Sacred Hill of Muruga: By J. M. Somasun-
daram. Published by the Sri Dandayuthapani Swami Deva-
sthanam, Palni. Madras, 1941. 48 pp. Price -/12/-.

In this monograph Mr. J]. M. Somasundaram, whose
earlier work on The Great Temple of Tanjore was reviewed
by us in a former issue of this Journal, attempts a short
description of the great shrine of Dandayuthapani and
attached temples on and near the sacred hill of the child-
god Muruga at Palni. The author, who holds the high
post of executive officer of the Sri Dandayuthapani Deva-
sthanam, has succeeded in giving within a short compass
much valuable information about the main shrine and its
adjuncts. We learn from him the topography, history and com-
munication of the site, the early history of the main shrine,
NOTICES OF BOOKS 99

the principal festivals, the literary works connected there-
with and so forth. Itis good to learn that under the enlighten-
ed management of the trustees in recent years a Saiva-
Siddhanta Sabha, a Veda-Sivagama Patasala, a_ library
and a reading-room have been founded on the site. At
the end of the work the author gives in the form of Appen-
dices a list of twenty-six constituent temples of the Deva-
sthanam and a list of landed properties attached thereto
as well as a chronological list of trustees from 1863 onwards
together with the improvements effected in their time.
Two other Appendices contain a select bibliography (in
the original Tamil) of the literature dealing with the shrine
and the English translation of an ancient hymn in honour
of the god Muruga composed according to the orthodox
tradition (which the author accepts unquestioningly) by
Nakkirar, a member of the third Tamil academy who
belonged to about the first century A.D. Nine plates
(including a ground-plan of the main shrine) and twenty-
six illustrations added to the usefulness of this work.

We have noticed a few printing mistakes which may
be corrected in a later edition, We may further observe
that the author would have done well in giving his copious
Tamil extracts in an English translation for the benefit of
non-Tamilian readers. For the same purpose it would
have been useful to append a glossary of technical terms.

U, N. GHOSHAL

The Early Muslim Expansion in South India: By N.
Venkataramanyya, M.A., Ph.D., Reader in Indian History
and Archaeology, University of Madras. Madras Univer-
sity Historical Series, No. 17. Published by the University
of Madras, 1942. 216 pp. Price, Rs. 6/8.

This is another of those valuable publications on South
Indian History and Culture which we owe to the Madras
School of historians working under the competent guidance of
Prof. K. A. Nilakanta Sastri. The aim of this monograph, to
quote the words of the author’s Preface, is ‘the investigation
100 ‘NOTICES OF BOOKS

of the circumstances under which the great Hindu empire
of Vijayanagara came to be established’. For this purpose
he begins with a chapter describing the condition of the
four Hindu kingdoms—those of the Séunas (ordinarily
known as Yadavas), the Kakatiyas, the Hoysalas and the
Pandyas—on the eve of the Muslim invasions. In the four
following chapters he describes the successive waves of
Muslim invasions under the Khaljis and the Tughlaqs, end-
ing in the complete subjugation of the four kingdoms by
the Delhi Sultanate. The sixth chapter briefly sketches
the administration of the new rulers with its characteristic
weaknesses. The dramatic story of the emancipation of the
land from the yoke of Delhi forms the subject-matter of
the seventh chapter. The concluding chapter deals briefly
with the new Hindu kingdoms that arose on the ruins of
of the Muslim empire in the South.

In tracing the eventful history of the country on the
lines sketched above, the author who has already a num-
ber of important works on South Indian history to his
credit, has undoubtedly attained great success. His use
of sources .is very neerly exhaustive, as he lays
under contribution not only Sanskrit and Tamil literary
works and South Indian inscriptions, but also the important
Persian histories and Portuguese notices. We only wish
he had utilised the evidence of the coins of the Sultans of
Madura. The author shows sound judgment in sifting
the discrepant and often contradictory evidence of his
authorities on various matters of detail. His style is clear
and forceful. “His explanation of historical movements
is suggestive and thoughtful, if not always convincing.

We shall make a few: remarks. Speaking of the
Hindu re-action following the successive inroads of Islam,
the author says (p. 146):—‘The Hindus of the North, though
they clung to their ancient faith ever so tenaciously, offered
little or no resistance to their oppressors. They meekly
submitted to all this ill-treatment and betrayed a strange
incapacity to organise themselves to defend their spiritual
NOTICES OF BOOKS 101

freedom (sic). When, however, the Muhammadans ex-
tended their field of activities and attempted to impose
their yoke upon the Hindus of the Deccan, they found
that the task was not easy of accomplishment.... Their
success was evanescent and their authority was overthrown
as quickly as it was established.’ This strange verdict
which is at variance with the authors’ usual sense of fair-
ness, ignores the prolonged and succesgful stand made by
the Guhilas and other dynasties of Rajputana, the Ahom
kings of Assam and the Eastern Gangas of Kalinga, for
their independence. In the same context (pp. 165-66) the
author accounts for the impermanent character of Muslim
rule in South India by referring to certain characteristics
of the Saivas of that region, ‘which, while distinguishing
them from the other Hindus, reveal a strange affinity to the
followers of Islam.’ These features, according to the author,
consisted in their strict monotheism, their faith in themselves
being the chosen of god, their indifference to distinctions of
birth and wealth within their own ranks and their intoler-
ance towards their rival creeds. Elsewhere (pp. 1-12).
however, the author mentions amongst the causes of the
political and social degradation of the Hindus on the eve
of the Muslim invasion, the bitter struggle for supremacy
between Saivaism (specially Vira-Saivaism) and Vaisnav-
ism. We are nowhere told whether and if so how, ‘the
two dominant creeds of Hinduism’ were reconciled to
each other during the interval, so as to ensure the common
solidarity of the people. Nor again does it appear why
the strong points of South Indian Saivaism failed to ensure
the immunity cf the Hindu Kingdoms in the earlier period.

We cannot conclude without stating that the present
work makes a very important and useful contribution to
the history af the period with which it deals. Its value
would have been enhanced by the addition of maps, genea-
logical tables and a classified bibliography of sources to-
gether with their critical notices.

U. N. GHOSHAL
EDITORIAL NOTES

_ The Greater India Society acknowledges with thanks
the receipt of the annual donation of Rupees one hundred
only for the current year from Dr. Narendra Nath Law, one
of the members of its Managing Committee.

* * * * *

On behalf of the University of Ceylon the University
Librarian has written (letter dated the 29th April 1943) to
the Honorary Secretary, Greater India Society, requesting
that the newly started University of Ceylon Review be plac-
ed on the Exchange List of the Society's journal. The
Managing Committee of the Greater India Society has glad-
ly acceeded to the request.

* * * * %

The following letter was received by the Honorary Sec-

retary, Greater India Society on 28.7.43

‘The Library of Congress, Washington March 30, 1943
Honorary Secretary, Greater India Society, .
35, Badur Bagan Row, Calcutta, India.
Dear Sir,

Some years ago we received a single copy of the Journal of the
Greater India Society. We very much desire to secure a complete
set of this important Journal...... We also wish to receive the Journal
currently and in the future. Would you be willing to consider sending
it on an exchange basis?

Very sincerely yours
Sd. Horace 1. Poleman
Chief, Indic Section.’

The Managing Committee of the Greater India Society
has great pleasure in placing the Congress Library,
Washington, on the exchange list of its Journal. It also
agreed to send a complete set of the back numbers of

the Journal at a concession rate.
* * * ™ *

The Greater India Society mourns, in common with
other Oriental Societies of India and outside, the sad and
EDITORIAL NOTES ° _ 103
sudden death in January 1943 of Dr. V. S. Sukthankar,

late genera! editor of the now well-known critical edition
of the Mahabharata. The profound scholarship displayed
by the late lamented scholar in his edition of the successive
parvans of India’s greatest Epic rightly earned for him
world-wide fame. The Greater India Society has parti-
cular reason to honour his memory as he was the first of his
countrymen to utilise the Old-Javanese versions of the
Mahabharata for his own critical editions.
* * * * *

Dr. R. N. Dandekar, Honorary Secretary of the Bhan-
darkar Research Institute has announced to us the appoint-
ment of Rao Bahadur Dr. S. K. Belvalkar, M.A., Ph.D., as
general editor of the critical edition of the Mahabharata
with effect from the first April 1943. Dr. Belvalkar has much
experience in the work of textual criticism, while he has
already prepared a critical edition of the Bhigsmaparvan,
which is expected to be shortly published. It is to be noted
that the great work of bringing out a complete critical edi-
tion of the Mahabharata which was left unfinished by
Dr. V. S. Sukthankar will be fittingly brought to its close
by his successor.
Select Contents of Oriental Journals etc.

Kuppuswami Sastri Commemoration Volume, 11.

Babylonia‘and India by A. Berriedale Keith [Criticism
of paper by F. Albright and P. E. Dumont on the parallel
between India and Babylonia in JAOS. Vol. 54. ‘*‘There
is a vital difference in -purpose and character between the
Vedic horse-sacrifice and the Babylonian.’’ ‘‘The new evi-
dence does not help us in any way to strengthen the case for
deducing the Indian naksatras from Babylonian sources.’’]

Bulletin of the School of Oriental and African Studies,
Vol. X. Pe. 4.

Hvatanica by H. W. Bailey [Text and translation of
thirteen Khotanese extracts illustrating the religion of
Khotan, together with a Lexical Commentary, a Note on
Theology and Legend and an Appendix].

Recherches sur |l’etymologie des deux dialects tokha-
riens. Par A. J. van Windekens [In continuation of the
author’s publication De Indo-Europeesche bestanddeelen
in de Tocharische declinatie, Louvain 1940, discusses the
etymology of fourteen selected words].
ADDITIONS TO OUR LIBRARY

The Greater India Seciety bega to acknowledge with
thanks the receipt of the following periodicals and books
since the last notice in J/GJS., Vol, 1X, No. |. ‘

Periadicais

Annual Report of the Varendra Research Museum, 1939-40.

Adyar Library Bulletin, vol. VI, Pts. 2-4; vol. VII, Pts. 1-2.

Annals of the Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute, Vol.
XXIV, Pts. 1-2. :

Bharatiya Vidya Patrika, vol. I, Pts. 5 & 6. Bombay 1943.

Bulletin of the Deccan College Research Institute, vol. Il,
Nos, 2-4; vol. IV, Nos. 1-2.

Bulletin of the School of Oriental and African Studies,
vol. X, Pt. 4.

Indian Culture, vol. VIII, No. 1.

Indian Historical Quarterly, vol. XVII, No. 4, vol. XVIII,
Nos. 1-43; vol. XIX, Nos. 1-2.

Journal of Andhra History and Culture, Vol. I, No. }.

Journal of the Aanamalai University, Vol. X1, No. 3.

Journal of thg Assam Research Society, Vol. VII1, Nos.
3-4, Vol. 1X, Nos. 1] & 2, Nos. 3 & 4.

Journal of Indian History, Vol. XXI, Pts. 1-3, Vol. XXII,
Pr. 1.

Journal of Sri Venkatesvara Oriental Institute, vol. II],
Nos. 1-2, Vol. IV, No. 1.

Quarterly Journal of the Mythic Society, Vol. XXXII,
Nos. 2-4; Vol. XXXIH, No. 1, Nos. 2 & 3; No. 4.

The Library Bulletin. Vol. 1, No. 1.

Man in India, Vol. XXII, Nos. 1-3.

Nagari Pracharini Patrika, Vol. 46, pt.4; Vol. 47, pt. 1.

Nagpur University Journal, No. 6, Dec. 4940.

University of Ceylon Review, Vol. 1, No. I.
BOOKS, PAMPHLETS, ETC.

Amaravati Sculptyres in the Madras Government
Museum. By C. Sivaramamurti, M.A., Madras
Government Museum. Madras 1942.

An Approach to the Ramayana. By C. Narayana
Menon, M.A., Ph.D., D. Litt., Benares 1942.

Annual! Bibliography of Indian History and Indology,
Vol. Il for 1939. By Braz A. Fernandes. Bombay
Historical Society, Bombay 1941.

Ceylon under the British Occupation, 1795-1833, vols.

“1&1. By Colvin R. de Silva, B.A., Ph.D., Bar-at-
Law. Colombo, Ceylon 1942.

Early History of the Andhra Country. By K. Gopalachari,
M.A., Ph.D. Madras University Historical Series No.
16. University of Madras. Madras 1942.

The Early Muslim Expansion in South India. By
N. Venkataramanyya, M.A., Ph.D. Madras Univer-
sity Historical Series; No. 17, University of Madras,
Madras 1942.

The Lalita Cult. By V. R. Ramachandra Dikshitar,
M.A. Bulletin of the Department of Indian History
and Archaeology, No. 8. University “of Madras.
Madras 1942.

Palni the Sacred Hill of Muruga. By J. M. Soma-
sundaram B.A., B.L. Sri Dandayuthapani Swami
Devasthanam, Palni.

A Study on the Chronicles of Ladakh. By Dr. Luciano
Petech, Ph.D. Calcutta 1939.

The Successors of the S&atavahanas. By Dr. Dines
Chandra Sircar, M.A., Ph.D. University of Calcutta.
Calcutta 1939. ,

Tables Comparing Gupta Inscriptions and Puranic
Tradition. By D. R. Patil. Deccan College Research

Institute, Poona.

Printed and Published by J. C. Sarkhel, at the Calcutta Ortental
Press, Ltd., 9, Panchanan Ghose Lane, Calcutta.
THE
JOURNAL

GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

sewer es

Vou. X JuLy, 194 No. 2
EDITED BY
U.N. GHOSHAL
Articles: PAGE

On the rédle of the Central Astan nomads in the History of
India (P. C. Bagchi) ... ve 107

King Siiryavarman I of Kambuja (R C. Majumdar)... 136
Abeyadana and Patothamya, two interesting temples at Pagan
(S. K. Saraswati) ee ve

A Note on the expression Sat-tarka in an Inscription of

Champa (Durga Charan Chatterjee) . ve 154

Notices of Books:

Mrs. C. A. F. Rhys Davids, Wayfarer’s Wortls, Vol. II.
(N. Dutt); Dines Chandra Sircar, The Successors of the
Satavabanas in Lower Deccan, (U. N. Ghoshal); Colvin
R. de Silva, Ceylon under the Britush Occupation
(1795-1833). Its Polstecal, Administrative and Economsc
Development. (U. N. Ghoshal), Braz A. Fernandes,
Annual Bibliography of Indian History and Indology
(U. N. Ghoshal); K. Gopalachari, Early History of the
Andhra Country (U. N. Ghoshal); Benoy Chandra Sen,
Some Historical Aspects of the Inscriptions of Bengal
(Pre-Muhammadan Epoch) (U. N. Ghoshal.) =

145

157
The Twelfth All-India Oriental Conference, Benares
(Suniti Kumar Chatterji) =. ve ve . 168
Select Contents of Oriental Journals . wee wee vee 192
Additions to our Library wee 173
Published by—
THE GREATER INDIA SOCIETY, CALCUTTA
Agents outside India—
Messrs. LUZAC & CO., 46 Great Russell Street, London, w. c, 1.
fy

Annual Subscription—Rs. 4-8 or 8s,-6d., including postage.
direater India Society (Established 1927)
Amis and Objects

1. To organise the study of Indian Culture in Greater India (i.e.
Serindia, India Minor,. Indo-China and Insulindia) as well as in China,
Korea, Japan and other countries of Asia.

2. To arrange for publication of the results of researches into the
history of India’s spiritual and cultural relations with the outside world.

3. To create an interest in the history of Greater India and
connected problems among the students in the schools, colleges, and
Universities of India by instituting a systematic study of those subjects
and to take proper steps to stimulate the same.

4. To popularise the knowledge of Greater India by organising
meetings, lantern lectures, exhibitions and conferences.

Membership Rules

|. The annual subscription payable by members is Rs. 12/- only.
Members are entitled to receive the publications of the Society at
concession rates and copies of the Journal of the Society free of cost.

2. Resident members may have access to the Society's collection
of books, pamphlets and periodicals etc. on application either to
the Honorary Secretary of the Society or the Librarian. Calcutta
University. The Society’s collection is housed by arrangement with
the Calcutta University authorities, in the University Library.

Officers and Members of the Managing Committee,
Greater India Society, 1943

President—Sir P. C. Roy, Kt. D.Sc.
Vice-Presidents—Rao Bahadur K. N. Dikshit, M.A., F. Bea. S.B.;
Prof. O. C. Gangoly. F.R.A.S.B.

Hony. Secretary—Dr. U. N. Ghoshal], M.A,, Ph.D,, F-R.A.S.B.

Hony. Jt. Secretary—Dr. Kalidas Nag, M.A.. D.Litt,, (Paris.)

Other Members of the Committee—Dr, Narendra Nath Law, M.A.,.
Ph.D., Prof. Suniti Kumar Chatterjee, M.A., D.Litt., (Lond,);
Dr. Prabodh Chandra Bagchi, M.A., D.Litt., (Paris); Dr.
Nalinaksha Dutt, M.A., Ph.D., D.Litt. (London.); Mm, Vidhu-
sekhara Bhattacharyya; Dr. Nihar Ranjan Ray, M.A., Ph.D.,

— D.Litt., (Leiden); Dr. Jitendranath Banerjea, M.A., Ph.D.;

T.N. Ramachandran, Esq., M.A.
JOURNAL OF THE GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

Published twice a year, in January and july. Annual Subscrip-

tion—Rs. 4-8 or 8s.-6d.—inclusive of postage. Volumes I-IX already
published.
THE

JOURNAL

OF THE

GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

Vor. X JULY, 1943 No. 2

On the Role of the Central Asian Nomads
In the History of India*

By Dr. P. C. BaccHi

I am grateful to you for the honour you have done me
by asking me to preside over this august assembly. The
responsibility that you have assigned to me is indeed very
great and | am afraid I am not the person who can discharge
it to your satisfaction. It seems that the most difficult task
of a President is to choose the subject of his address.
I have failed to discover a strict principle that might guide
us in this matter and make our task easier. The two alter-
natives before us, I believe, are either to give a survey of
the work done in our field of study since we last met or to
deal with a particular problem that would interest every
one of us. A survey without a proper consideration of the
values will be a simple catalogue of works that are more
or less known to us. An evaluation of the merits and
demerits of such works, again, is beset with difficulties of
which we are all aware. I shall therefore choose the other
alternative and discuss some problems of the ancient history

* Presidential address at the Sixth Session of the Indian History
Congress held at Aligarh, Dec. 26, 1943; Section I, (Ancient India
up to 711 A.D.).
"7

108 P. C. BAGCHI

of India which, although studied on numerous occasions for
more than half a century, have not yet lost their interest
‘tous. Iam however fully conscious of my short-comings
and I hope you will be indulgent towards me if | ill fulfil
my task.

The problems to which | should like to draw your atten-
tion are connected with the réle of the Central Asian nomads
in the history of India. While dealing with these invaders,
we have been in the habit of attaching greater importance
to the foreign sources of information than to our own
literature. I do not however deny that for nearly one
thousand years, from the end of.the second century before
Christ up to the eighth, the Chinese sources supply us with
more definite information on the movements of the Central
Asian nomads than any other source, but there is no
reason for attaching greater importance to the Greek and
Latin texts than to our own for their early history. In fact
the classical writers derived their knowledge of these people
either from the Persians or from the Indians. The recent
researches into the Central Asian antiquities have shown
that the ancient Indians possessed a fairly precise know-
ledge of these people.

The region beyond the Himalays was never so isolated
from India as we often think. The people of Northern
India‘ and specially the people of the Punjab possessed
some knowledge of this region and were in contact with the
nomads almost in every age. They did not consider them
foreigners as we do now, simply because the distinction
between them, both physical and cultural, was not so great
as to create a sharp difference between them. Conflict
arose only in cases when the newcomers tried to unsettle
the established political conditions, but peaceful infiltration
was generally a welcome feature as it contributed to the
prosperity of the country and proved an added military
strength to the local ruler. The Brahmanical social code
always provided them with an independent place in the
society. Although it meant the formation of new castes, it
THE ROLE OF THE CENTRAL ASIAN NOMADS _ 109

did not hurt their amour-propre, but made them willing
partners of an ever-growing civilisation.

As early as the later Vedic period the Indian writers
show an acquaintance with the people beyond the northern
and north-western frontiers. In the Atharvaveda (V. 22,
5-9) the fever takman is wished away not only to the
country of the Gandharis but also further beyond, to that of
the Bahlikas, In the Brahmana literature we again come
across these people (Sat. Br. I,7,3-5). Two new people
are also spoken of—the Uttarakurus and the Uttaramadras
as distinguished from the Kurus and the Madras settled in
the Punjab (Ait. Br. VIII, 14, 23). The next writer Yaska
who comes immediately after, speaks of another new people
—the Kambojas probably for the first time (Nirukta, II, 2).

The Bahlikas are well known. It appears that the Uttara-
kurus, Uttaramadras as well as the Kambojas too belonged
to the still undefined region of Central Asia beyond the
Himalayas. The existence of an Uttarakuru in this region
is noted by the Greek writers till the fifth century A. D.
Ptolemy is the first to speak of a town named Ottorokorrha
and of a river and a mountain bearing the same name in the
Serique (Chinese Turkestan) near the mountain Emodos
(Himalaya). Later writers speak of the same place under
the name QOporrocorra (apara and uttara here having the
same meaning). The tradition survived till the 5th century
as Orosius still speaks of the Ottorogorras. The name
Uttaramadra might suggest a connection with the Median
tribes (the Mada) and an attempt was made a few years
ago to prove that the Maddas or the Madras of the Punjab
were Median immigrants to India. Amongst the reasons
adduced in favour of this hypothesis stress has been laid on
the unorthodox customs prevalent amongst them and men-
tioned by the Mahabharata. The epic distinctly speaks of
the king of the Madras as Bahlika-pungava and thus suggests
his connection with the Iranian world.

The Kambojas also point to the same direction.
Although they are constantly associated with Gandhiara,
110 P. C. BAGCHI |

still it is impossible to find out their trace on the frontiers
of India. The name of Gandhara survived for long cen-
turies, but that of the Kambojas was soon forgotten. This
makes it probable that they belonged to the nomad hordes
of Central Asia which were moving from place to place.
One of their branches seem to have entered India in very
early times, but they must have soon lost their identity as a
distinct people. Other branches of the same people seem
to have entered Eastern Tibet and the valley of the Mekong
‘from another direction. By this assumption only we can ex-
plain why the name Kambuja was given to the kingdom foun-
ded in the middle velley of the Mekong. In Eastern Tibet
also their. name can be traced in the name of the province of
Khams and it is probably from this region that the Kamboja
invasion of Assam and Bengal took place in later times.

In the early Buddhist texts, the Epics as well as the
Purdnas, we get a more elaborate scheme to systematise
the geographical knowledge possessed by the Indians not
only of India but also of other Asiatic regions. The
principles which guided the compilers of these texts are
not always evident, but as some of their notions correspond
to actuality, it is not fair to reject the cosmology presented
by them as fanciful.

The Buddhist texts mention four continents spread
around the central mount Meru in the following order: in
the south Jambudvipa, in the North Uttarakuru, in the West
Aparagodana and in the East Pirvavideha. Jambudvipa
was generally speaking India, according to the Buddhists.
Uttarakuru, as we have seen, was the name given to
Chinese Turkestan. Godana was the- name by which
Khotan was known in ancient times. The oldest form of
the name of Khotan is preserved in the Chinese transcrip-
tion of the Han period as Yu-t’ien. The Chinese words
were pronounced in the Han period as *(g)iu-den i.e.
Godana. The name Apara-godana thus seems to have
been used with refernce to the region of Khotan. Pirva-
videha must have meant the eastern zone to the east of
THE ROLE OF THE CENTRAL ASIAN NOMADS | 111

Videha--Videha being the eastern limit of the North Indian
world at the time when this geographical notion was first
formed. ;

The Brahmanical cosmology which is sensibly of a later
period gives us a more elaborate scheme. J.mbudvipa
according to it is no longer India alone, but the entire
central belt of the continent as known to the compilers of that
age. It is divided into seven vargas or regions of which
the first is the Bharatavarsa or India. Another known varga
is Uttarakuru. The five other varsas are the Kitipuruga,
Hari, Bhadraéva, Ketumala, [lavrta and Ramayaka. As
the central mountain of the Kimpurusavarsa is mentioned
as Hemakita, it is possible that this was the name given
to the Himalayan zone. Illavrta might suggest a connec-
tion with the region watered by the Ili river further to the
north. Jambudvipa is again only one of the seven continents.
Amongst the other continents two, the Sakadvipa and the
Krauficadvipa, have been described in detail in the Maha-
bharata. As we shall see later on, at least the former
corresponded to reality.

But although we cannot do full justice to the cosmo-
logical notions contained in the Buddhist and Brahmanical
texts, there is ample evidence to show that the Indian com-
pilers were acquainted with most of the people of the
Central Asiatic regions in the age when these cosmological
notions were systematised. For example one of the early
Sanskrit Buddhist texts, mentions—Cina, Kausika, Khaéa,
Bahli, Tukhara, Pahlava, Parata, Saka, Vokkana, Ramatha.
The Ramayana locates to the North of Gandbara and
Madraka—the Yavana, Saka, Parada, Bahlika, Rsika,
Paurava, Kimkara, Cina, Aparacina, Tukhara, Barbara,
Kamboja, Darada, Kiradta, Tankana, Pagupala. The Maha-
bhdrata speaks of the Yavana, Cina, Kamboja, Sakryd-
graha, Kulattha, Hina, Paragika, Ramana (sic. Ramatha),
Abhira, Darada, Kaémira, Paéu(pala), Khasira (2? Khasa),
Pafihava (Pahlava), Girigahvara etc. amongst the people
living in the North. The Puranas locate in the same region:
k12 P. C. BAGCHI

Bahlika, Vatadhana, Abhira, Kalatoyaka, Pallava, Carma-
khandika, Parada, WHarabhusika, Daégamalika, Kamboja,
Darada, Barbara, Harsavardhana, Cina, Tukhara, Culika,
Silika etc. The Brhatsamhita attempts at a more precise
classification: in the West—Haihaya, Vokkana, Ramatha,
Parata Saka; in the NW—Tusara, Madra, Kuliita, Carma-
ranga, Ekavilocana (Ekanetra), Sulika; in the N—Kuru,
Uttarakuru, Vatadhana, Hiina and in the NE—Padéupala,
Cina, Khaga, Ghosa, Kucika.

I will not waste your valuable time on the  identi-
fication of these tribes, many of which are known
to us from previous researches. Yavana, Saka, Parada,
Kamboja, Hiina, Paragika, Cina are well-known. The
Tusaras or Tukhadras were the people of Tokharestan.
The Carmakhandikas are supposed to have been the peo-
ple of Samarcand. The Silikas, also known as Cilikas
were the Sogdians. The Kucikas or Kusikas may be identi-
fied with the ancient people of Kuci or Kuchar. Vokkana
is identified with Wakhan. The Ekavilocanas remind us
of the one-eyed people whom Herodotus locates in the
extreme north of Central Asia above the Issedones. The
Tanganas or Tanhkanas may have been’ connected
with the Donki or the Tunguse. Although we cannot
identify other tribes in the lists referred to above the iden-
tities already noted are quite sufficient to prove that from
about the second century B.C. to about 500 A.D. the Indian
writers possessed a fairly accurate knowledge of the no-
madic hordes that were moving about in Central Asia.
The cosmological notions recorded by these writers reveal
that they possessed also a fairly precise knowledge of the
lands beyond the Himalayas. Compared with this, the
Greek sources, although indispensable for our modern
studies, do not appear to be of any greater value.

Under these circumstances | should like to attach a
greater importance than hitherto done to the Puranic
accounts of the foreign dynasties that ruled in India after
the fall of the Imperial Andhras. The accounts say :
THE ROLE OF THE CENTRAL ASIAN NOMADS 113

‘““‘When the kingdom of the Andhras has come
to an end there will be kings belonging to the lineage
of their servants: 7 Andhras, and 10 Abhira kings,
also 7 Gardabhins, 18 Sakas. There will be 8 Yava-
nas, 14 Tusdras, 13 Murundas and I! [iiinas (or
Maunas).”*

‘*‘The Sriparvatiya Andhras will endure 52 years,
the Abhira kings 67 years, the Gardabhins 72 years,
the 18 Sakas 183 years, the 8 Yavanas 87 years. The
earth is remembered as belonging to the Tusadras 7000
years, according to some accounts 500 (but apparent-
ly either 107 or 105 is meant). The 13 future Mu-
rundas along with low caste men, all of mleccha origin
will enjoy it half 400 years (i.e. 200 years). The 11
Maunas will enjoy it 103 years. When they are over-
thrown by time there will be Kailakila kings. Then
after the Kilakilas, Vindhyaégakti will reign. He
will enter upon the earth after it has known those
kings 96 years.””

The Abhiras and Gardabhins mentioned in the list are re-
garded as kings of foreign origin but we know almost nothing
about them. The Yavanas or the Bactrian Greeks have
been recently treated by M. Tarn, a recognised authority
in classical studies. 1 propose to discuss here the problems
concerning the Saka, the Tusara, the Murunda and the Hina.

The Saka Problem

H we take the Puranic accounts literally, we have to
admit that the Saka conquerors preceded the Yavanas or the
Greeks in India. At least they were elder contemporaries
in their Indian adventures. The Puranic evidence has, how-
ever, not been given any credence for want of corroborative
facts. The Chinese evidence has been relied upon to
prove that the Sakas could not have entered India before the
commencement of the Ist century B. C. The Greek rule had
been established in the Punjab and in the Kabul valley about
a century earlier. In fact this is regarded as the reason for
114 "Pp. C. BAGCHI

which the Sakas came to India not directly by the Kabul
route, but from Drangiana which they had conquered in the
middle of second century. Let us now examine the eviden-
ces again and see how far they are precise enough to admit
of such interpretation.

The Greek writers from the time of Herodotus speak of
the Sakas as a branch of the Scythic people which occupied
Central Asia in early times. Herodotus says that the Persi-
ans used the designation Saka in a loose way. Strabo
(58 B. C.-21 A. D. ) tells us that the Caucasus separated the
Sakai, the Scythes and the Seresin the North from the
Indians in the South. Ptolemy in the second century B. C.
says that the eastern frontier of the Sakai was Scythia.

The Old Persian Inscriptions speak more clearly of the
Sakas than the Greek texts. Thus in the Behistun Inscrip-
tion there is mention of Bactria, Sogdiana, Gandhara, Saka,
Tathagush, Arachosia and Maka, and again after Parthia
of Margiana, Tathagush and Saka provinces which revolted
against Darius. In the Persepolis inscription we are told
that the eastern provinces of the empire were Arachosia,
India, Gandhara, Saka and Maka. In the Nakshi Rustum
Inscription there is mentionof Zranka (Drangiana), Aracho-
sia, Tathagush, Gandhara, India, Saka Haumavarka, Saka
Tigrakhauda, and in the Gold Tablet Inscription of Darius
we are told that his empire extended from Saka beyond
Sogdiana ( para-sugdam ) to Ethiopia and from India to
Sardis. The Saka Tigrakhauda or the ‘‘Sekas who wore
pointed helmets’’ were according to Herodotus the neigh-
bours of the Bactrians and most probably occupied the
Jaxartes region. The Saka Haumavarka who were the same
as the Amyrgian Scythians of Herodotus were those who
had settled in the Persian Province of Drangiana. The
Behistun and the Persepolis inscriptions really locate
them near Gandhara. The old Persian Inscriptions there-
fore make it clear that the Sakas were living near the
frontiers of India long before the Greeks had come to that

region.
THE ROLE OF THE CENTRAL ASIAN NOMADS | 115

The Indian literature speaks of them, but only at a time
when the Greeks had settled in Bactria. This is the reason
for which the Sakag are closely associated with the Yavanas
in these texts, specially in the R@mdyana, the Manusamhita
and the Mahabharata. But a particular,chapter of the Maha-
bharata inseried in the Bhigsmaparva which gives the des-
cription of the Sakadvipa or ‘‘the land of the Sakas’’ seems
to bear an earlier stamp. It is said that there are seven
mountains in Sakadvipa, named Meru, Malaya, Jaladhara,
Raivata, Syama, Durgagaila and Keéara. The land is divided
into seven varsas: Mahakdéa near Meru, Kumudottara near
Malaya, Sukumdra near Jaladhara, Kaumdra near Raivata,
Manikdficana near Syama, MaudGki near Kegara and Maha-
purusa near DurgaSaila. The text then says that there are
four Janapadas or kifigdoms in the land of the Sakas, Maga
(or Manga), Magaka, Manasa and Mandaga. These regions
are watered by different branches, of the Ganges viz. Suku-.
mari, Kumari, Sitagsi, Venika, Manijala, Caksu (i.e. Vaksu),
and Vardhanika, Regarding the character of the people
the text then says that the Magas are Brahmin by vocation,
Masgaks Kgatriya, the Manasas Vaisya and the Mandagas
Sidra.

According to Rapson this Sakadvipa would be the name
given to the lower Indus valley after the Sakas had settled
there in the first century B. C. This identification has been
suggested by the use of the word dvipa in this connection.
The word dvipa, however, was used in the Puranic and Epic
cosmology in a much broader sense and not in the narrow
sense of island. Then again there is little doubt about the
identification of the river Vaksu (Oxus) which flowed through
the country of the Sakas. Another river, the Sitaéi,
may be the same as the Sita which is the name given to
the Yarkand river in some texts. According to an old
notion all the four rivers, Ganga, Sindhu, Vaksu and
Sita, issued from the same source, the Anavatapta lake,
and hence they could be known under the same name
Ganga. Of the four people mentioned above the

2
116 P. C. BAGCHI

Maga reminds us of the Magians, the Maka of the old
Persian inscriptions who according to Herodotus were
a Median tribe. The Maéakas may be very well identified
with the Massagetae another Scythic people mentioned by
Herodotus as a powasful and valiant people dwelling to-
wards the east beyond the river Araxes over against the
Issedonians- It may be noted that the Masakas are also
described in the Mahabharata as Ksatriyas. The Mandagas
or Madagas might have been the same as the Mada or the
Medes. The names of two of the vargas seem to corres
pond to things known from other sources. Kumudottara
may be connected with the Komedoi of the Greek writers
which extended from the Oxus to the river of Karategin.
Mahak&sa reminds us of Akhasa which the classical authors
place in Scythia. The difficulty in identifying the names of
mountains and rivers is due to the fact that the old names
have often been replaced by new ones in this region.

That the Sakas were known in India before the establish-
ment of the Greek rule is also indirectly suggested by the
Jaina account as preserved in the Kdlakadcaryakathanaka. In
order to punish the autocratic Gardabhillas of Ujjayini Kalaka
sought for outside help. He could have gone to the Yavanas
as well had they been’ settled in the upper Indus valley.
But instead of doing that he went to the Sagakula i. e. the
Saka race beyond the Indus. He induced some of the Saka
chiefs to accompany him. They crossed the Indus in ships
and went to Kathiawar. These chiefs first occupied the
kingdom of Surastra and divided the country amongst them-
selves. Next they went up to Ujjayini, imprisoned the
Gardabhilla king and set up one of their chiefs as ruler
there. In course of time (kalantarena) Vikramaditya the
king of Malava ousted the Saka dynasty and established his
own era (58 B. C.). This dynasty also was destroyed by
another Saka ruler after 135 years of the Vikrama era had
elapsed (78 A. D.). Prof. Sten Konow has given full
credence to this story. The route followed by the Saka
chiefs indicates that they were coming from the other side
THE ROLE OF THE CENTRAL ASIAN NOMADS | 117

of the Indus, probably from Seistan where Saka settlements
had been established already in the Achaemenian period.
But how long did they rule in Ujjayini before the rise of this
legendary Vikramaditya in 58B. C. is not known. The
account vaguely says kdlantarena : after the lapse of some-
time. Prof. Konow has referred to a late Jaina tradition
which says that the Sakas ruled at Ujjayini only for four
years. Accordingly the Saka occupation of Ujjayini may
be placed in 61-60 B. C. But the same account attributes a
reign of only 13 years to the Gardabhillas. A little examina-
tion shows that it is only a distorted version of the Puranic
accounts which however assign a reign of 183 years to
the Sakas and 72 years to the Gardabhillas.

One of the oldest Saka rulers of India, Maues had
extended his rule up to Taxila and Gandhara, but we do not
know from which direction. Most of the scholars now
agree that it was from the Saka settlements in the lower
Indus valley. But we should not forget that although some
of his coins appear as imitations of the coins of Demetrios
and Appollodotus the great majority of them bear Parthian
influence in the regal formula—Basileus basileun Megaloy
Mayoy. Orosius speaks of a Parthian invasion of India up
to the Hydaspes by Mithradates | (171-138 B. C.). But
this account has been given little credence for insufficient
reasons.

If we attach less importance tothe story of the foundation
of a powerful Greek kingdom extending from the Kabul
valley to the Punjab after the invasion of Demetrios, and
Menander—a kingdom which would be a sort of impenetra-
ble barrier against a possible Parthian or Saka invasion from
the side of Bactria, then we can explain things more clearly.
The Sakas had undergone a great Parthian influence, the
language they spoke was the Eastern Iranian dialect and
they had rendered a great help in the foundation of the
Arsacidan dynasty. So a possible Parthian invasion of the
Punjab by Mithradates I, as Orosius tells us, might have
brought the Sakas to the Punjab along the Kabul valley.
* 38 P. C BAGCHI

The Greek opposition would be futile in that case. The
Sakas of Kathiawar and Ujjayini represented an altogether
different branch of the same people that had penetrated
through the lower Indus valley at a much earlier period
possibly with local help as the KGlakdcaryakathanaka would
have us believe,

What is then the importance of the Chinese account
regarding the movement of the Saka people from the region
of Ta-hia? The annals of the former Han dynasty Tsien
Han shu contain the following account which is now well
known:

*‘Formerly when the Hiung-nu subjugated the
Ta Yue-che, the latter migrated to the West and
gained the dominion over Ta-hia whereupon the
king of Sai moved south and ruled over Ki-pin.
The Sai were scattered and at times formed several
kingdoms. North-west of Shu-lei, the Heu-suen,
Suen-tu and consanguinous nations are all descen-
dants of the ancient Sai.”’

The Chinese word Sai was pronounced in Han times
Sek and hence it is certain that the word was used to render
the name of the Sakas (Greek Saces). The Ta Yue-ches
were defeated by the Hiung-nus in 176B.C. They ousted
the Sakas from the Jaxartes region in about 160 B.C. The
Sakas then migrated to Ta-hia (later Tokharestan). Pressed
by the Wu-suns the Yue-ches moved to the south and
occupied Ta-hia. It was then that the King of the Sakas
was obliged to move further south and to goto Ki-pin. This
must have taken place before 128 B.C.

The route to Ki-pin which the Saka king followed is
clearly stated. He passed the Hien-tu or the hanging passage
while moving towards Ki-pin from his original seat in Ta-
hia. This route was recognised by Chavannes and Sir
Aurel Stein as the Bolor route through the Yasin valley.
This was the route which was usually followed by the
ancient travellers from the region of Wakhan to the Indus
valley and to Kashmir and Udyana.
THE ROLE OF THE CENTRAL ASIAN NOMADS | 119

If we follow this Chinese account literally, we are driven
to two conclusions; the first, that the Sakas who were turned
out of Ta-hia by the Yue-ches entered India by the Bolor
route and the second, that Ki-pin which they conquered was
Kashmir. The first conclusion has been discar:led on the
ground that the Bolor route was impracticable and the
second has been rejected on the ground that Ki-pin could
not be Kashmir but must be identified with Kabul-Kapiéa.
It has therefore been supposed tha: the Sakas went south
from Ta-hia and as it was impossible for them to enter
the Kabul valley owing to the presence of the Greeks in
that region they went westwards to the direction of Herat
and thence southwards to Seistan. From Seistan. they
entered India by th: lower valley of the Indus in the first
century B.C. and thence extended their influence north-
wards to the Kabul valley.

] think that this assumption is not necessary at all. The
Sakas of Ta-hia seem to have represented an entirely different
group and had no relation with the Sakas of Seistan The
Bolor route again was not probably so impraticable as has
been supposed. At least it does not appear to have been
impracticable in the end of the 4th century A. D. when
the first Chinese traveller, Fa-hien and his associates
came to India.

Then again the identification of Ki-pin with Kabul-
Kapisa is an impossibility. Lévi and Chavannes were the
first to propose the identification of Ki-pin of the Chinese
annals with Kashmir. They pointed out that in a number of
Chinese translations of Buddhist texts the translators use Ki-
pin for translating the name Kashmir up to 581 A.D. Since
581 A.D. the Buddhist translations as well as other Chinese
documents use the name Ki-pin to denote Kapiga and not
Kashmir. In recent years there has been a tendency to take
these conclusions too lightly. For example Tarn in his
book ‘‘The Greeks in Bactria and India,’’ while identifying
Ki-pin with Kophene (Kabul), refers to Lévi only to point out
that ‘‘the Chinese mixed up Kapiéa and Kashmir in their
120 P. C. BAGCHI

Ki-pin."" The Chinese writers made this confusion only
after 581 A.D. as Ki-pin had by then become too old a
name to convey a precise geographical import. But there is
no ground to believe that the same confusion existed prior to
581 A.D. In the oldest Chinese translation of the Milinda-
pafiha which belong to the 4th eentury A.D. Kaémira of
the original text is twice rendered in Chinese as Ki-pin.
The Chinese biography of Kumarajiva contains another
corroborative evidence. Kumifarajiva was taken from
Kucha to Kashmir by his mother for proper education in
the third quarter of the 4th century A.D. Kashmir was
then a reputed centre of Sanskrit learning. While coming
from the west they crossed the river Sin-t’eou (Sindhu) in
order to go to Kashmir which is called Ki-pin. Of the
description of Ki-pin which we get in the Chinese annals
of the Han and Wei periods, the following points may be
noted: (i) Ki-pin was to the south-east of Ta Yue-che i.e.
Ta-hia. The kingdom of Nan-tu was at 9 days journey to
its north-east and Wu-yi-shan-li to the south-west. Nan-tu
seems to be *Dar-du i.e Darada. Wu-yi-shan-li which is
a transcription of the name Alexandria has been identified
with Kandahar. (ii) The valley of Ki-pin was surrounded by
hill ranges on four sides. It was a flat country having a
length of 800 li from east to west and a breadth of 300 li from
the north to the south. These accounts seem to refer clearly
to Kashmir and not to Kabul-Kapiéa. The name Ki-pin
itself seems to suggest the same. In Han pronounciation
the first word Ki was definitely a *Ka probably followed
by some consonant which might have beenas. Pin was
pronounced almost certainly in early time pir or wir. Hence
Ki-pin clearly stood for *Ka(s)-pir or *Ka(s)-wir. This form
of the name is also found in the early Greek records in which
Kashmir is either Caspiri or Kaspeira. Ki-pin was thus a
correct phonetic transcription of the old name of Kashmir.
The Sakas of Ta-hia could not have come to Kashmir via
Seistan and the lower Indus valley—they must have come
there by the shorter route—i.e. the Bolor route from Ta-hia.
THE ROLE OF THE CENTRAL ASIAN NOMADS © 1ar

_ The Tukhara Problem

The next problem is what |! should like to cal! the
Tukhara or Tokharian problem. In the dynastic lists of the
Puranas it is said that the Tusara kings succeed the Yavanas
in India. Their number is given as 14. According to the
Matsya the world belonged to them for seven thousand years
(sapta-varsa-sahasrdni) whereas according to the Vayu and
Brahm4nda they ruled for pafica-varsa-Satani which may be
interpreted either as five hundred years or as 105 years.
Five hundred years would be too long a period for 14 kings
and so it is just probable that they ruled only for 105 years.
The Matsya account may be accordingly corrected as sapta-
varsa-Satadn-iha and interpreted as 107 years. Some of the
early Puranas give Tukhadra as a variant of Tusadra. It is
certain that the cerebral was pronounced as kha when the
name was adopted by the Puranic chroniclers. The
Ramayana gives the name as Tukhara. The name is given
in the same form by the Mahabharata as well as by two
old Buddhist texts, the Saddharma-smrtyupasthana and the
Mahamayiri. The Chinese pilgrims tell us that the Tukhiara
Buddhists like the Ceylonese had a special monastery built
for them at the Mahabodhi in the 7th century. In the same
century Bana writes in his Harsacarita that Harsa used to
get taxes from the mountainous and inaccessible region of
the Tusaras (atra paramegvarena tusaragailabhuvo durgayah
grhitah karah). This only shows that Tukhara as a distinct
people and the land of the Tukharas (Tokharestan) asa
distinct country in the mountainous regions beyond the
frontiers of India were known to the Indians as late as the

middle of the 7th century A.D.

The classical authors mention the people under the same
name. Thus Pliny says—'‘‘After the Attacores (the same as
Ottorokorras) come the Phuni (Phruni), Thocari and Casiri
(which seems to be a mistake for Caspiri), the last belonging
to India.’’ Ptolemy speaks of them as Thagouroi, Periegetes
(2nd century) and all later writers up to the 4th century as
122 : P. C. BAGCHI

Tochari. The Tokharians therefore according to these
sources were acentral Asian people living to the north of
the Caspiri or Kashmir.

The Chinese sources of the Han period speak of a
people named Ta-hia. They were living as early as the 2nd
century B.C. in th Oxus region. The two Chinese words Ta
and hia were pronounced in early times as D’a-g’a and it
stood in all probability for the name Dogar or Tukhar. From
the 5th century the name appears in the Chinese annals
as T’u-ho-lo *T’ugguo-la i.e. Tukhara. The king of that
country sent ambassadors to China in 453, 457 and 465 A.D.
At the time when Hiuan-tsang visited the country it had
passed into the hands of the Western Turks. The pilgrim
tells us: that Tokharestan in that period was a very exten-
sive kingdom. It reached the Tsong-ling (the Pamirs) on
the east, Persia on the west, the Hindukush on the south
and the Iron Pass or Derbend in the north. The Oxus flowed
through this country. Henceforth contact with China
remained almost uninterrupted for about two centuries. It
is in this period that the Tibetan texts speak of the country
of Tho-gar or Tho-dgar and of the Buddhist monks of that
country who had gone to Tibet to participate in the work
of translation of Buddhist texts. The Uigurs also speak
of them as Tozri and of their country as Twyrstn i. e.
Tokharestan.

We therefore see that from about the second century
B.C. to about the middle of the 7th century A. D. all sources
of information, Sanskrit, Greek, Latin and Chinese concur in
recognising a people called Tukhara living in the country
which came to be known in later times as Tokharestan. The
original seat of the people was the Upper valley of the Oxus
in the region of Badakshan. The Puranic sources would
have us believe that kings of this Tukhara origin conquered
India from the Greeks and set up their own rule. Fourteen
of their rulers reigned in India for a little over hundred
years,
THE ROLE OF THE CENTRAL ASIAN NOMADS 123

_ These are precisely the rulers who are designated Kushan
by the modern historians of India. The Greek legends on
the coins of these rulers give them the name Korsano Kosano
etc. and the Kharosthi Inscriptions Kugana, Khugana and
Kusana. The name of a king of this group of rulers called
Maharaja Gusana may be connected with the same name.
The occurrence of the initial letter as g, k, kh, and Greek k
and x shows that it was probably a guttural fricative which
could not be exactly rendered intu an !ndian form. Prof.
Kanow probably rightly considers that -the word is an
Iranian form with the genitive plural suffix of Gna which is
used as a rule with the Iranian ethnic names. In that case
the base would be Gusa or Kuga. In fact one of the Kushan
rulers, Kanishka is described as a member of the Kuga _ race
in a Buddhist text ascribed to ASvaghosa who according
to the Buddhist tradition was contemporaneous with that
great ruler.

In order to explain the origin of this family name an
evidence contained in the old Han annals has been referred
to. According to it the Kusanas would bea branch of the
Ta Yue-che nomads of whom a branch was called Kuei-
shuang. The passage which contains this evidence occurs
in the annals of the later Han dynasty Heou Han shu. Let
us consider this passage again :

“Previously the ‘Yue-ches were conquered by the Hiung-
nus. They then went away to Ta-hia and divided this
kingdom into five hi-heous namely Hieu-mi, Shuang-mi.
Kuei-shuang, Hi-tuen and Tu-mi. More than hundred years
after this the hi-heou of Kuei-shuang named K‘ieu-tsieu-k’io
attacked and vanquished the four other he-heou, called him-
self king and the name of his kingdom become Kuei-shuang.
He invaded Ngan-si, conquered Kao-fu, became victorious
over P’u-ta and Ki-pin and possessed these kingdoms entire-
ly. Kieu-tsieu-k’io died at the age of more than 80
years. His son Yen-kao-chen became king in ‘his place,
in his turn he conquered T’ien-chu (India) and established
there a chief ‘to administer it. From this time the Yue-ches

3
124 P. C. BAGCHI

became extremely powerful. All the different countries
call their king, the king of Kuei-shuang, but the Han call
them Ta Yue-che retaining their ancient title.”’

The names of the two kings K’ieu-tsieu-k’io and Yen-
kao-chen have been corrected as K’ieu-tsio-kie and Yen-
kao-mi by no less a Chinese authority than Prof. Pelliot.
When. these corrections are admitted, the names appear in
their archaic pronunciation as K’i®u-dz’ieu-kiip and lam-
kau-mjie. These may be restored accurately as Kuju Kapa
and Vema Kafi which are exactly the names of Kujula Kada-
phises and Wema Kadphises. According to the latest in-
terpretation of the passage it would appear that the five
hi-heous belonged to the old kingdom of Ta-hia or the
Tukharas. They temporarily became vassals of the Ta
Yue-che, but later on the hi-heou of Kuei-shuang supplanted
the Yue-che rule and established his own. He was there-
fore a Tukhadra, but the Chinese writers followed the old
custom and continued to call them Ta Yue-che. Thus Kujulo
Kadphises who supplanted the Yue-che rule was primari-
ly a Tukhara and secondarily a Kuei-shuang. So far as the
first appellation is concerned the Indian sources amply
confirm it. It was the Tukharas who followed the Greeks
in India and they were not known by any other name. As
Chinese evidence shows, Kuei-shuang was the name of the
principality over which Kujula ruled as a hi-heou. This was
the name given tothe kingdom founded by him after the
overthrow of the Yue-che rule simply because the nucleus
of that kingdom was his own. principality. Kuei-shuang
was not an ethnic name and hence the Sanskrit sources
do not mention it but retain the name Tukhara.

The connection between Kuei-shuang and Kusana is not
very clear. Kuei-shuang, in old pronunciation Kjwei-siang,
was something like Khusana or Kusana. KadphisesI uses
both Kogano and Xosano on his coins. In the Panjtar ins-
cription of the year 122 there is mention of a Maharaja
Gusana and in the Taxila silver scroll Inscription of the
year 136 there is mention of Maharaja Rajatiraja. Devaputra
THE ROLE OF THE CENTRAL ASIAN NOMADS © 125

Khusana. The titles show that they were two different
rulers but who they were, we do not know. There is again
reference to the Gusanavaméa and its scion General Lala
in the year 18 of Kanigka in the Manikiala Stone Inscription.

This uncertainty in the use of the name Kugana is more
the reason why we should attach greater importance to the
ethnic name Tukhara given not only in the Puranas but also
in all other sources.

We have said that the Tukharas were not the Ta Yue-
ches. They continued to be so called by the Chinese his-
torians by mistake. The Ta Yue-ches had probably merged
into the Tukhara people and adopted the local culture. This
is the reason why they are only vaguely remembered by the
Chinese historians. They are last mentioned only in con-
nection with the Kidarites. A Chinese annal (Pei-she) tell us
that king Ki-to-lo (Kidara) of Ta Yue-che, driven by the
Juan-juan shifted to the town of Po-lo (B’ak-la: Balkh) and
then conquered Northern India and the 4 kingdoms to the
north of Gandhara. The annal then says that Kidara had
asked his son to occupy the city of Fu-leu-sha (Purusapura)
and that this is the reason why the kingdom of his son was
called Siao Yue-che or Little Yue-che.

This brings us to another question, that of the Little Yue-
ches. Some scholars are still inclined to hold that Kaniska
belonged to the Little Yue-che and that he entered India
from Chinese Turkestan by a different route. The late
Baron de Staél Holstein was the first to put forward this
theory. He was of opmion that the Kidarites were called
Little Yue-che because the tradition of the Little Yue-che
was being perpetuated. at Peshawar by the successors of
Kaniska. But we have seen that the Chinese text is quite
clear on this point. The text first speaks of the Great
Yue-che kingdom of Kidara then of the kingdom founded at
Peshawar by his son. The latter was called Little Yue-che
so that it could be distinguished from the kingdom of the
father. The annalist had no knowledge of the fact that
there was a king called Kaniska and that his capital was at
126 --~P. CG BAGCHI

Peshawar. And he was writing in the middle of the 5th
century A.D.

There is a slightly earlier evidence on the Little Yue-ches.
In a Buddhist text translated in 413 Kumiarajiva translates
the name Tukhadra as Siao-Yue-che or Little Yue-che.
Kumiarajiva was a native of Central Asia and therefore the
information supplied by him on this point should be seri-
ously considered. Prof. Pelliot would like to explain it
thus: ‘“‘After the rupture of relation between China and the
West in. the last quarter of the 3rd century the Great Yue-
ches had been forgotten in China, Only the Little Yue-ches
were spoken of. As Kum§arajtva was writing for the Chinese
he used the terminology known to them in his times and
rendered the name Tukhira as Little Yue-che because they
were the only Yue-ches whose name was still understood.
Otherwise it is inconceivable that a native of Central Asia
would explain the name Tukhara as Little Yue-che who had
never come to Ta-hia and had been driven by the Hiung-
nus to the South-East to Kan-su’’.

There is therefore no reason to think that Kaniska was
a Little Yue-che. The Little Yue-ches had lost their identity
amongst the barbarians of South-Eastern China just as the
Great Yue-ches had Jost theirs amongst the Tukharas. Besides
these Little Yue-ches had no connection either with Ta-hia
(Tukhara) or with Kuei-shuang (Kusana).

There is another point to which | should like to draw
your attention in this connection. It is the’ confusion in late
literature between two different names the Tukhara and the
Turuska. In the Garuda and Vamana Purdnas we have
Turugka and Turaska in the place where we should have
expected Tukhara or Tusadra. Kalhana while speaking of
the Shahi rulers of Afghanistan who claimed: descent from
Kaniska calls them Turuska. Hemacandra in his Abhi-
dhaGnacintamani probably refers to the same Shahi rulers as
Turuska sakhi (959-Turuskastu sakhayah syuh). But we
know definitely that the Turuskas were the Turks and diff-
erent from the Tukharas. In a Chinese-Sanskrit lexicon of
THE ROLE OF THE CENTRAL ASIAN NOMADS © 127

the 7th century A.D. which I edited a few years ago, the
Sanskrit name of the Tu-kiues (Turks) is given as Truska-
gana. Tokharestan had passed into the hands of .the
Western Turks in the 7th century and since then it was
natural for all late Sanskrit writers to make an exsy confu-
sion between Tukhara and Turuska just as the earlier
Chinese writers had done in calling the Tukharas Yue-che
after the Yue-che conquest ‘of the country.

The Murunda Problem

Although the Murundas are regarded as a_ separate
dynasty of rulers who succeeded the Tukharas, some scholars
would consider them as identical with the Sakas. Sten
Konow explains the word as a Saka word meaning “Lord”,
‘‘Master’’ and takes it to be identical with the Chinese ex-
pression Sai-wang ‘‘the king of the Sakas’’ which the anna-
lists use in connection with the Saka migration from Central
Asia. Konow’s reading and interpretation of the word
muroda in the Zeda inscription is far from certain. Its
connection w'th Murunda is still more improbable.

On the contrary the Puranas consider the Murundas as
quite distinct from the Sakas. All of them agree in stating
that the Murundas followed the Tukharas in India and that
13 of their kings ruled in India along with low caste men,
all of Mleccha origin. The duration of their rule was accord-
ing to some sources 400 years whereas according to other
sources 200 years, Who were these Murundas?

We know that the Murundas were in India before the
foundation of the Gupta empire. The Allahabad Pillar Ins-
cription of Samudragupta tells us that the Murundas were
amongst those who accepted the vassalage of the Guptas.
The name next occurs in the Khoh copperplate Inscription
of the beginning of the sixth century. We are told there
that the mother of the Maharaja Sarvanatha of Ucchakalpa
was Murundadevi, also called Murundasvamini. She was so
called probably because she was a princess of the Murunda
dynasty,
128 B.C BAGCHI

The mention of the Murundas is found in earlier texts
too. Prof. Lévi was the first to deal with these texts. The
Chinese annals have preserved the record of a political
mission which was sent to India from the Hinduised king-
dom of Fu-nan in Indo-China in the 3rd century A.D. We
are told that in the period 222-277 A.D. the king of Fu-nan
sent one of his relatives to India. The ambassador started
from Fu-nan, went out of the mouth of the river Teu-kieu-li
(Takkola?) and following the great bend of the littoral right
towards the north-west entered a big gulf which bordered
on different kingdoms. At the end of a little more than a
year he entered the mouth of the river of T’ien-chu (India).
He went up this river, covered a distance of about 7000 hi
and arrived at ‘his destination, The king of India was taken
by surprise to learn that there were such men on the distant
shores of the ocean. He sent with him various presents to
the king of Fu-nan and amongst them there were four horses
of the Yue-che country. The Indian ambassadors who went
to Fu-nan along with this mission were met by the Chinese
ambassador at the Funanese court, Being questioned he
told the latter that the title of the king of India was Meu-lun
and that the capital where he resided was guarded by two
consecutive circles of ramparts and that the ditches were
constantly fed by the water carried by canals from the river.
The description of the city and the palace as given by the
Indian ambassadors rem‘nds one of the splendour of
Pataliputra.

The Chinese name, as Prof. Lévi has shown, is a faithful
transcription of the name Murunda. Ptolemy locates the
Marundai in the same region, in Eastern India, on the right
bank of the Ganges. The Jaina version of the Simhdsana-
dvatrimsika tells us that a Marunda-raja was the king of
Kanyakubja. The Prabandhacint@mani of Merutunga tells
us that the Marundaraja had his capital at Pataliputra. Another -
Jaina 'egend would have us believe that Padaliptasiri who
was a contemporary of Nagarjuna had cured a Murundaraja
from a serious disease and converted him to Jainism.
THE ROLE OF THE CENTRAL ASIAN NOMADS © 129

Although these evidences are few and insufficient they
are conclusive enough to prove the existence of Murunda
kings in India from the Kushan period up to the Gupta
period. The geography of Ptolemy and the Chinese evi-
dence discussed above definitely show that the Murundas
were established in Eastern India in the 2nd and 3rd cen-
turies A.D. and that they possessed at least two important
cities, Kanyakubja and Pataliputra, the latter being probably
their capital till the rise of the Guptas.

It is therefore permissible to suggest that the Murundas
had come to India along with Tukharas and that they had
set up a kingdom in Eastern India first as vassals of the
Tukharas and then on their downfall as independent rulers.
Their connection with the Yue-ches is suggested by the
present of the four horses of the Yue-che country which
they sent to Fu-nan. Then again when Hemacandra in his
A bhidhdnacintaémani connects them with lLampaka
(Lamghan) it does not mean that they were known in his
times, He got this information from some older sources
which knew that the Murundas had come by way of
Lamghan. That was not the way followed by the Sakas in
course of their invasion of India. The Sakas aga'n had gone
up to Eastern India and none of the old sources connect
the Sakas with Pataliputra. The Murundas therefore in all
probability were a Tukhara tribe like the Kushans and
partially filled up the gap in the political history of India
from the downfall of the Imperial Kushans to the rise of the
Guptas. This fact was known to the Puranic chroniclers.

It seems we can trace the Murundas in Central Asia
alongside the Tukharas. The classical writers such as Strabo,
Pliny and Periegetes speak of a people called Phrynoi who
lived near the Tochari. If we are to believe the evidence of
Pliny, the Phrynoi or Phruni lived to the south of the moun-
tain Attacoris, the Tochari lived to the south of the Phrynoi
and the Casiri i.e. Caspiri or Kashmir to the south of the
Tochari, The name of the Phrynoi could be very well ren-
dered in Sanskrit as Mrunda or Murunda. The Puranic chro-
130. Ct P, C. BAGCHI

niclers had probably some hesitation in rendering the name
as such. Thus the Vayu-purdna which is in many respects
one of the most trustworthy texts renders the name not exactly
as Murunda or Muranda, but as Purunda or Purand. The
cerebralisation of the original dental final does not really
make any difficulty as it has other examples too.

x

The Hina Problem

The Hina question, I believe, still remains a problem in
Indian history. The reason is this. Kalidasa in his
Raghuvarnga in connection with the digvijaya of Raghu
speaks of the Hiinas as living on the banks of the Vaksu or
the Oxus. Prof. K. C. Chattopadhyaya in a very learned
monograph on Kalidasa has tried to establish the priority
cf Kalidasa over Aévaghcsa in the field of artificial poetry.
He is of opinion that Kalidasa lived'in the first century
B.C. If we accept this theory we have to admit that the
Hinas were known in India already before the Christian era.
On the contrary we have so long maintained that the Hiinas
were not known in India before the fifth century, They
appeared for the first time on the Indian soil in the time of
Skandagupta (455-467 A.D.) under the distinctive name Hina.
They were at that time driven away. They appeared again
towards the end of the same century and this time succeeded
in establishing an independent Hiina kingdom in the Punjab.
They ruled up to the second quarter of the sixth century
as paramount rulers when they received,a crushing defeat
at the hands of Yagodharman of Malwa.

These Hiinas who appeared in India in the fifth century
A.D. were the Hepthalite Huns or the White Huns, Hepthal,
Chinese Ye-t’a, was the eponymous hero of the race who in
484 A.D. defeated and killed Peroz, the king of Persia. In
Iran the principal centres of these Huns were Badakshan
and Bamiyan. It was in this region that Song-yun met them
in the beginning of the sixth century. It was from this region
that they penetrated into India. It has been so long main-
tained’ that they were the only Huns known in India.
THE ‘ROLE OF THE CENTRAL ASIAN NOMADS 131

*

But what about the old Hiung-nus of the Chinese annale?
After they had driven the Yue-ches away from the eastern
part of Chinese Turkestan in the second century B.C, they
continued to play an important political réle im the history
of Centra! Asia for long centuries. Such a powe:ful people
must have Leen known to the Greek, Latin and. Sanskrit
writers long before the appearance of the Hepthalites. But
under what name were they known?

The Indian literature is not silent on the Hiinas. The
Mahabharata speaks of the Hiinas and generally in associa-
tion with the Paraégikas (hundh pdGragikah saha). Amongst
the Puranas the Brahmande and the Visnu only mention
them. But none of these texts can be definitely placed before
the 5th century A.D. The Ramdyana which bears the stamp
of a more definite age does not mention the Hiinas. The.
oldest’ translation of the Mahamdyari which belongs to the
5th century does not either speak of the Hiinas. Both these
sources however know the Sakas, Yavanas and Palhavas.

The classical writers do not speak of the Hunnus before
the sixth century. The earlier writers mention another people
which may be: identified with them. Thus Orosius who wrote
in the beginning of the fifth century or towards the end of
the 4th says: ‘‘Between the sources of the Ganges and
those of the river Ottorogorras, situated to the north in the
region of the Paropanisades mountains, the Taurus moun-
tain extends. The Caucasus mountain extends between the
sources of the Ottorogorras and the town of Ottorogorras
through the country of the Chuni, Scythes and Gandarides.’’
The variants given in the different manuscripts for Chuni
are Chunos, Funos, Hunnos, Hunnus.

The Hiung-nu of the Chinese annals looks like the
Hunnus of the Latin writers of the sixth century and like
the Hina of the Sanskrit literature and inscriptions men-
tioned from the end of the fifth century onwards. We
should however bear in mind that Hiung-nu is the pronun-
ciation of about the same period. The earlier pronuncia-
tion of the Chinese name was zi”ong-nuo. It commenced

4
132 P. C. BAGCHI

with a guttural fricative which disappeared in later pronun-
ciation. This guttural fricative was transcribed by the earlier
classical writers as Khu. Towards the end of the fifth and
the beginning of the sixth it had already changed into Hu.
It is to this stage that the Latin Hunnus and Sanskrit
Hina belong. -

It is thus clear that although the Hiung-nu hordes might
have been known in India under a different name they
could not be mentioned as Hiina before the fifth and sixth
centuries A.D. In this connection | would propose to make
another correction of a common error. A Roman historian
of the 4th century tells us that in circa 358-360 A.D. the king
of the Chionitae named Grumbates helped king Shapur Il
of Persia against the Romans in the siege of Amida.
Cunningham suggested that the Chionitae were either the
Kushans or the Tokharoi. But we have just seen that they
were probably the same as the Chuni or the Hiung-nus. It
is possible that they were in this period quite mixed up with
the Tokharoi but they cannot be on any account called
Kushan.

The Puranic accounts tell us that the Murunda kings were
followed in India by the Hiina rulers. Although some texts
give the variant Mauna, Hina seems to be the correct read-
ing. They had eleven rulers who reigned for three hundred
years. From the Inscriptions however we know only of two
Hiina rulers namely Toramana and Mihirakula. They reign-
ed from about 490 A.D. to 540 A.D. Yaégodharman’s victory
only put an end to the growth of the Hiinas as an imperial
power in India. The Hina rule must have continued in the
Punjab for several centuries that followed and the Puranic
chroniclers are probably right in attributing to them a reign
of about 300 years. It was the disintegration of the Hina
kingdom in the Punjab that led to the rise of different ruling
clans in Northern India.

The problem of the Hiinas is interconnected with the
problem of the rise of some of the early medieval dynasties
in Northern India and although these problems fall outside
THE ROLE OF THE CENTRAL ASIAN NOMADS 133

the scope of our section | shall take the liberty of making
some suggestions regarding them here. 1 will not enter into
the origin of the Rajput clans who are now regarded by most
of the scholars as of Scythic or Hiina origin. My remarks
will be confined only to the consideration of certain facts
which have not been so far properly noted. The first of this
concerns the origin of the Gurjaras. They are looked upon
as a Hina race although their name has not been as yet
traced to any Central Asian source, In order to do this we
have probably to go to the old race movements in that
region. The Han annals speak of three different people the
Hiung-nu, the Wu-sun and the Yue-che. When the Hiung-
nus turned out the Yue-ches from their original home, the
latter were compelled to migrate first to the country of the
Wu-sun which was in the region of the Ili river. The Wu-sun
subsequently drove the Yue-ches out of their country with
the help of the Hiung-nus. We are told in this connection
that the minor king of the Wu-sun was brought up arnongst
the Hiung-nus. It is just possible that the Wu-sun had Hun
affinities. The old pronunciation of the name ‘Uo-suen in
all likelihood commenced with a consonant which was later on
dropped and that consonant was most probably a guttural.
In the 4th century the name was something like Gusur which
gave rise to the name Gujar. The Wu-sun or the Gujars
must have moved to India along with the Huns in the fifth
century A.D. and on the downfall of the Hun kingdom set
up their own rule.

The Turks were also of Hun origin. The ancestors of
the Turks were a group of Hiung-nu families bearing the clan
name Assena. The word Tiirk in old Turkish meant
‘“‘mighty.’’ The Chinese name Tu-kiue was based on a
Mongol plural Tiirk-kiit. The Sanskrit name Turuska was
established through such intermediate forms as Turuk,
Turukkhu. The Turkish power rose in the 6th century
and in the 7th century, shortly after 638 A.D., the chief of
the Turks drove back the Persians to the West and con-
quered all the old Hepthalite dominions up to the frontiers
134° P. C. BAGCHI

of Kabul. The Turks had taken Balkh and Herat as early
as the year 589 and in 599 we hear that they were assisting
their vassals the Kushans and the Hepthalites against the
Armenians and the Persians. ‘

The Turks had a hierarchica] organisation beginning with
the princes of the blood up to the officer of high ranks.
The firet was called teghin who were princes of the blood.
The officers of the highest official rank were called Kulu-
chi. It was suggested long ago that the Sanskrit word
Thakura was an adaptation of the Turkish word teghin.
It is just possible that the dynastic name Kalachuri is also
of Turkish origin. The founders of the dynasty were at first
the Kuluchiir or the highest Turkish officials. They had
set up an independent kingdom when the central power had
weakened. It is to be noted in this connection that the
Kalachuris claimed descent from Sahasrabahu Arjuna.
Inspite of the fact that the latter is celebrated in Indian
mythology he reminds us of Assena from whom the innumer-
able Turkish hordes claimed their descent. If we thus
assume that the Turks had come to India along with the
Huns or shortly after them, we can explain a significant refer-
ence to them in a Haihaya Inscription. We are told in
this inscription that Kokkalla ‘“‘plundered the treasuries of
Karnata, Vanga, Gurjara, Konkana and Sakambhari kings
and also those born of the Turuska and Raghu families.”’
The Gurjara-Pratihdras claimed descent from the Raghu
family. But who were those born of the Turuskas? |
believe that they were the Kalachuris and such other Turkish
tribes that had followed the Huns in India.

cd * *

Ihave now cometo the end oftmy address. If 1 have
not quite solved the{problems, | hope, I have succeeded in
impressing on you that the problems exist. The migration of
the Central Asian nomads to India is an essential corollary
to the Indo-Iranian conquest which brought the Vedic
civilisation to this country. The Central Asian nomads re-
presented other ramifications of the same civilisation that
THE ROLE OF THE CENTRAL ASIAN NOMADS 135

spread from eastern Iran right up to the frontiers of China
through mountain gorges and desert sands. Hence their
contribution to the development of Indian civilisation in-
creased its complexity by introducing traits that were analo-
gous but distinct in forms. This phenomenon repeated
itself almost in every age throughout the period with which
we are just now concerned. | therefore believe that not
only the political history but also the history of the art,
society and religion of the entire period has to be studied
against this wider background. Only then we will be in a
position to follow step by step the evolution of our great
civilisation.
King Suryavarman |! of Kambuja

Dr. R. C. Majyumpar

Siryavarman | played a prominent part in the history
of Kambuja at the beginning of the eleventh century A. D.
and we possess quite a large number of inscriptions belong-
ing to his reign. But there are many obscure points in his
history, on some of which important theories have been
propounded in very recent times. It is necessary to
review them in order to find out to what extent, if any, the
prevailing views about the life and times of Stryavarman |
require revision and modification.

1. The struggle for the throne.

Siryavarman suddenly appears on the stage of Kambuja
politics on the death of Jayavarman V, the last ruling
member of the illustrious family founded by Indravarman.
This event took place in 923 S. (=1001 A.D.) and in that
very year Udayadityavarman I as well as Siryavarman
issued inscriptions as rulers... Two years later another
ruler Jayaviravarman appears on the scene. All these
clearly indicate that the death of Jayavarman V was follow-
ed by a dispute for succession and there were at least three
climants for the throne.

Until recently the view was generally held that Sirya-
varman and Jayaviravarman were identical. It was first
propounded by Aymonier who believed that the new ruler
at first assumed the latter name, and changed it, after a
few years, for the former. M. Finot found a corroboration
of this in the fact that both these rulers are expressly said

1 The inscriptions of this period of civil war, referred to in this

article, are arranged chronologically in BEFEO., Vol. XXXIV,
pp. 422-425. ;
KING SURYAVARMAN I OF KAMBUJA 137

in their récords to have ascended the throne in 924 §S.
(=1002 A.D.).7 M. Coedés has, however, demonstrated’
that this view is untenable. He has referred, in the first’
place, to an inscription engraved on a stele found at
Prasat Khna, which incidentally mentions that a family of
chowrie—beavers served thirteen kings from Jayavarman II.
to Siryavarman [. Now there are only twelve kings during
this period if we regard Jayaviravarman and Siryavarman
as identical, and we get the requisite number 13 only if we
regard them as separate rulers. This inference is supported
by an analysis of the records bearing the names of these
two rulers. The name of Siryvavarman appears in records
bearing dates (in Saka era) 923, 924, 928, 930, 933 and the
following years, while Jayaviravarman issued records dated
925, 927 and 928. It is thus no longer possible to support
Aymonier’s view that Jayaviravarman was the name
assumed by Siryavarman during the first few years of his
reign. Further, an analysis of the findspots of the inscrip-
tions bearing these two names, and dated between 923 and
929, shows that while those of Jayaviravarman are generally
found in the west, in Angkor region, those of Siryavarman
are confined to the north-eastern part of Kambuja.

We must, therefore, hold that Siryavarman‘and Jayavira-
varman were different persons and both contested the
throne of Kambuja. As mentioned above both claim to
have ascended the throne in 924S. This creates no diffi-
culty so far as Jayaviravarman is concerned, for his earliest
record is dated 925 S., and we may easily presume that he
proclaimed himself king one year earlier. But as we have
one record dated 923 expressly mentioning Siryavarman
as the ruler it is not easy to understand the statement in the
later records that he ascended the throne in 924 S.

An explanation is probably to be found in the attitude
of these rulers to Udayadityavarman |[. Two records of

2 BEFEO., Vol. XXVUI, p. 73, £.n. 3.
3 BEFEO., Vol. XXXIV, pp. 420 ff.
138 " R. C. MAJUMDAR

this king, both dated 923, have been found at Koh Ker and
Prasat Khna, in the northern part of Kambuja. No record
of his of any later date has yet been found. According. to
the Prasat Khna* Inscription Udayadityavarman’s mother
was the elder sister of the queen of Jayavarman V, the
preceding king, and the younger sister of Rajapativarman,
the general of the same king. This relationship is not, of
course, such as would make us believe, without further
evidence, that Udayadityavarman was the legitimate heir
to the throne. But it proves in any case that he was related
to Jayavarman V, and this cannot be said of either Sirya-
varman or Jayaviravarman. It.is, therefore, a reasonable
assumption that Udayadityavarman succeeded Jayavarman V
immediately after his death in 923 S. Siiryavarman cer-
tainly, and Jayaviravarman probably, contested this access-
ion, . and Udayadityavarman was defeated and _ pro-
bably killed in 9245. When, after his death, the struggle
for the throne was confined between the two other rivals,
both chose to regard Udayadityavarman as the legitimate
heir and counted their accession to power only from 924 S.
the date of his death. This is the only plausible explana-
tion of the fact that while the record of Siryavarman as king
is actually dated 923S. the date of his accession to the
throne is given in several records of later years as 924 S.

Whether Siryavarman contested the throne immediately
after the death of Jayavarman V or rebelled against Udaya-
dityavarman I after the latter had ascended the throne
is mot definitely known. But the second view seems pro-
bable. Verse 7 of the Prah Khan Inscription might throw
some light on this point, but unfortunately its meaning is not
quite clear. Referring to Siryavarman it says *—

‘*Ranastho rajasankirnad rajrio rajyam jahara yah|"’

Finot who originally edited this inscription’ translates
the passages as follows :—

‘Le took away in battle the sovereignty of a king mixed

4 BEFEO., Vol. XI, p. 402. 5 BEFEO., Vol..IV, p. 672.
KING SORYAVARMAN I OF KAMBUJA 139

with other kings.’’ The crucial word in the verse is ‘rdja-
sankirnadd which qualifies ‘rdjfio.’ Finot’s translation
‘mixed with other king’ does not seem to convey much.
According to Sanskrit lexicons the word ‘sankirna’ means
also ‘intoxicated’ and ‘of mixed caste’, while sankirna-
yuddha means a ‘confused fight,’ ‘a melee.’ It is, therefore,
possible to interpret the verse so as to mean that Sirya-
varman seized the kingdom by defeating its ruler who was
either of impure origin or of a haughty character, or because
there was a confused fighting for it among many kings.
In other words, he justified his action on the ground that
the king was an undesirable person or that there were
many aspirants to the throne whose mutual quarrels led to
a state of chaos and confusion in the kingdom. But what-
ever interpretation we accept, and irrespective of the
question whether the pleas put forward by Siryavarman
are true or not, the verse in question seems to indicate that
Siryavarman fought with one who was generally recognised
as king. This king was most probably Udayadityavarman I.
Whether Siryavarman raised a revolt against him because
he was considered undesirable or stood asa claimant to
the throne when the power and authority of Udayaditya-
varman was being challenged by others, it is difficult
to say- But that Udayadityavarman ruled for some time
before Siiryavarman entered the field against him seems
to be the most reasonable view.

The dated records of Siryavarman and Jayaviravarman,
referred to above, prove beyond doubt that both ruled in
different parts of Kambuja at least up to the year 928.
Subsequently Jayaviravarman was defeated and Sirya-
varman ruled over the whole of Kambuja, as is proved by
his numerous records. Some light is thrown on the struggle
between these two rivals by an inscription discovered at
Tuol Don Srei which states that Siryavarman had to carry
on a struggle for nine years.° Perhaps this refers to his

6 BEFEO., Vol. XXXIV, p. 427.
5
140 R. C. MAJUMDAR

fight with Jayaviravarman. In that case we may assume
that this contest went on from 924 S. to 932 S. when
Jayaviravarman was finally defeated and Siryavarman
became master of the whole kingdom. This view is suppor-
ted by the ten inscriptions, all dated 933 S., eight of
which are engraved on the pillars of the Gopuram leading
to the inner court of the royal palace of Angkor Thom,
and two on gateways of a neighbouring building.” They
contain the identical text of an oath, and the names of
district officers numbering more than four thousand, who
took it in the presence of the sacred fire, the dcdryas and
the Brahmanas offering unswerving and life-long homage
and allegiance to king Stryavarman and dedicating their
lives to his service. These officers swore that they ‘‘shall
not honour any other king, shall never be hostile (to their
king) and shall not be the accomplices of any enemy.” This
somewhat extraordinary record may not unreasonably be
assumed to indicate the termination of the civil war and
an attempt on the part of the victorious king to take effective
steps to prevent its recurrence.

2. The origin of Saryavarman

Siryavarman, who thus succeeded in defeating all his
rivals, does not appear to have any legitimate claim to the
throne. Long after he had been firmly seated on the throne
claims were made to connect him, though remotely, with
the old royal families. The Prasat Kev Inscription® says
that he was born in the family of Indravarman. The
Phnom Pra Vihar’ Inscription repeats the same thing and
adds that his queen Sri Viralakgsmi was born in the royal
line of Sri Hargavarman and Sri Janavarman. This is corro-
borated by Prasat Khna Inscription.*® On the other hand

7 BEFEO., Vol. XI (6), p. 11. 8 ISCC., p. 97.
g Aymonier—Cambodge, Vol. ll, pp. 208-9.
10 Inscriptions du Cambodge, Vol. I, p. 196.
"KING SOURYAVARMAN I! OF KAMBUJA 141

the Vat Thipedi Inscription’ connects him with the mater-
nal family of Indravarman. The Lovek Inscription’? also
probably refers to Siryavarman as descended from the
maternal family of Jayavarman V, but as a portion
of the verse is missing, one cannot be sure of the
interpretation. These vague statements seem to indicate
that Saryavarman had no legimate claim to the throne by
his relationship with any of his immediate predecessors,
though he and his queen probably belonged to aristocratic
families which claimed some relationship, however remote,
with the royal family of Indravarman.

It is necessary, in this connection, to discuss the theory
propounded by M. Ccedés,’* that Siryavarman was the son
of a Malyan king. This view is based on a passage in
Camadevivarnsa, a Pali chronicle composed about the
beginning of the fifteenth century A.D. It is recorded in
this chronicle that the king of Kambuja, the son of the king
of Siridhammanagara, attacked Haripufijaya (Lamphun
in N. Siam) about twenty years before its inhabitants emi-
grated to Sudhammapura (Thaton in Burma). This latter
event, which is also referred to in other chronicles, pro-
bably took place about 1056-7 A.D. The king of Kambuja
who took Haripufijaya must have therefore ruled about
1030 A.D., and Coedés therefore argues that he should be
identified with Saryavarman I. In support of his view that
Siryavarman was the son of the king of Siridhammanagara
or Ligor in Malay Peninsula, Coedés points out (1) that he
had no relationship with the preceding rulers of Kambuja
viz. Jayavarman V and Udayadityavarman |; (2) that he
was the first Kambuja king to assume the title Kamtven
which is derived from the Malay word tuan (chief); (3) that
he was a follower of Buddhism of which Siridhammanagara
(also called Nagara-Sri-Dharmaraja) was a stronghold ;
(4) that according to the chronicles the king of Sri-Dharma-

11 Melange S. Lévi, p. 213. 12 ISCC., p. 122.
13 BEFEO., Vol. XXV, pp. 24-25.
142 " R. C. MAJUMDAR

raja had conquered Lavo (Lopburi) and it is from this town
that the king of Kambuja proceeded to invade Haripuf-
jaya; and (5) that the earliest Khmer inscriptions found at
Lopburi belong to the time of Siryavarman.

Coedés’ view is undoubtedly very ingenious and seduc-
tive, but is open to some very serious objections. In the
first place, although many of the records of Siryavarman,
as noted above, refer to his connection with the old ruling
families of Kambuja, not the least reference is made any-
where to the fact that his father wasa ruling prince. It
may be argued that the court-poets did not like to refer
to his foreign origin, but this could have hardly prevented
them from dilating on his royal family, at least in a general
way. Secondly, as Ccoedés has himself pointed out, the
early records of Siiryavarman all come from the north-
eastern region while those of his rival Jayaviravarman be-
long to the Angkor region in the west.’* This shows that he
first established his power in the eastern regions and
had no authority in the west. This is hardly compatible
with the view that he was the son of a local ruler in Malay
Peninsula and must have therefore presumably invaded
Kambuja from the west. Besides, we must remember that
Camadevivamsa is not a historical work and its statements
must be accepted with caution. Further, the date of the in-
vasion of Haripufijaya by the king of Kambuja, arrived at
by piecing together a large number of scattered data in
the chronicles cannot be fully relied upon. On the whole.
therefore it is difficult to regard Ccedés’ view as anything
more than a mere tentative hypothesis.

3. Social and religious activities.

Siryavarman had a great leaning towards Buddhism,
for his inscriptions contain invocation to Buddha along with
that to Siva and his posthumous name was Nirvana-pada.
He issued edicts containing regulation about monasteries in

14 BEFEO., Vol. XXXIV, p. 424.
KING SURYAVARMAN I OF KAMBUJA 143

which it is laid down that the ascetics and Buddhist monks
should offer to the king the merits of their piety.”° But
although he might have adopted the Buddhist faith, he did
not give up the official Saiva creed and constructed both
Saiva and Vaisnava temples.

The Pra Khan Ins.'* contains the following verse about
Siryavarman :-—

‘‘Bhasyddi-carand kdvya-panis = sad-darsanendriya/

Y anmatir-dharmmaégdastrddi-masiaka jengamayata/ |

This refers to the king’s proficiency in Bhagya, Kavya,
Six Systems of Indian Philosophy and Dharmaégastra. Other
records refer to his knowledge of Atharvaveda, Yoga and
Panini’s Grammar. Even allewing for the exaggeration of
the court-poet, we may regard Siryavarman as a learned
scholar. This intimate acquaintance with the orthodox
Hindu literature probably led him to initiate some social
reforms. The Prea Kev Ins. contains the following verse
about him: —-

‘*S+i-Saryyavarmmano rajye varnnabhage krtepi yah/

Sampadarh prapya sad-bhaktya varnna-sresthatva-

sarmsthitah/ /

The expression ‘varnnabhage krte’ literally means that
he instituted the system of caste. But this view is hardly
acceptable. For we get reference to castes in Kambuja
from a much earlier period. Even Jayavarman V, who
reigned shortly before, is said to have made, like Brahma.
proper arrangements of varnna and Gérama (dhateva var-
nndgrama-sad-vyavastham krtva). Siryavarman, therefore,
regulated the details of the caste system. Although we
have no knowledge of exactly what he did, we may well
believe that this king, versed in Hindu Sastras, tried to
introduce more orthodox rules in society, and confer dis-

15 - Aymonier-—-Cambodge, Vol. H, p. 8:1.
16 BEFEO., Vol. IV, p. 672.
“17 CE. e.g. Lovek Ins. ISCC., p. 122. 18 ISCC., p. 97.
144 ' RC. MAJUMDAR

tinction on worthy persons by placing them in higher social
ranks.’® :

His fondness for innovation is also seen in the domain
of art. He is said to have completed the Hemagiri and the
Temple-mountain, two structures begun by his predecessors.
It is very likely that these two are respectively the Ta Kev
temple and the Phimanakas, and Siiryavarman added to
them the peculiar corbelled galleries which were unknown
in Kambuja architecture till then.”°

On the whole Siryavarman is a remarkable figure in
Kambuja history, having a romantic career and a distingu-
ished personality. He had found Kambuja in a hopeless
state. of disintergration, torn by civil war and suffering all
the miseries of anarchy and confusion. During his long
rule extending over nearly half a century (1001-1049 A.D.)
he restored peace and prosperity and extended the boun-
dary of Kambuja to the heart of Siam. The oath of
allegiance which he introduced as noted before, is taken
even today by the royal officials of Kambuja in more or
less the same terms. He made a deep impression on
posterity, and it is curious to note that the historical chroni-
cles of Cambodia place his name at the head of the list of
kings with which they begin.

19 We are told e.g. in the verse quoted above from the Prea Kev
Ins. that the Brahmana Sivacarya was placed at the head of his caste.
Probably Siryavarman introduced something like Kulinism in Bengal.

20 This is the view of Cadés (BEFEO., Vol. XXXIV, pp. 426-27).
Abeyadana and Patothamya, two interesting

temples at Pagan

By S. K. Saraswati

In a study of the square temples at Pagan | have tried to
divide them into three distinct groups, which, however, are
found to belong to one common architectural tradition that
may be styled as Indo-Burmese.* Related to the first group,
represented by the famous Ananda and several other
similar examples, there are particularly two _ interesting
monuments, each of which, though with marked affinities
with the Ananda group in respect of its plan, arrangement
and main lines of elevation, exhibits one distinct variety in
the shape of the crowning superstructure. While every
temple at Pagan, irrespective of the group to which it
belongs, is characterised by a curvilinear Sikhara over a
roof of several receding tiered stages, these two are each
distinguished by a stiipa over the tiered roof. This feature
constitutes a significant variation, which necessitates a
closer examination of these two monuments, especially as
regards their antecedents and possible analogues.

The Patothamya, alleged to have been built by king
Taungthuggyi in the early part of the 10th century A.D., and
the Abeyadana, built by the famous Kyanzittha in 1059°
A.D., represent the two monuments, that are being referred
to here. A proper understanding of the monuments in
question along with the various problems regarding their
origin and antecedents requires a detailed description of
these two singular examples of Burmese architecture. The
description given previously may here be reproduced in
full. As an architectonic example, we should remember,
the Abeyadana ‘appears to have been anterior to the

1 JGIS., Vol. IX, 1942, pp. 5-28 and pls.
146 S. K. SARASWATI

Patothamya, which, according to the current tradition, has
been ascribed to an earlier date. It ‘‘represents a square
structure, raised on a moulded plinth, with a projecting
vestibule on one side having entrance doorways on three
sides of it. The vestibule is partitioned into a central nave
and two side aisles and in the interior of the main square
we have the usual circumambulatory corridor, surrounding
the solid masonry pile in the centre and lighted with the
help of three perforated windows, surmounted by flam-
boyants, on each of the three sides. In plan thus the
present structure closely resembles the Nanpaya and the
Nagayon, previously mentioned. Like them too the roof
rises in two ogee-shaped tiers directly over the vaults over
the corridors, surmounted further by three flat horizontal
tiers as the basement for the crowning element. The last,
however, presents a variation, not found in any of the
monuments mentioned above. Instead of the curvilinear
Sikhara, usual in such’ structures, we have the bell-shaped
dome of a stipa, complete with the cruciform turret of the
harmmika and the conical finial of the chatrdvali, as the
crowning member of the entire monument. In shape and
appearance it closely resembles the bell-shaped  stiipa
monuments of Burma. Each of the ogee-shaped roofs is
adorned with a miniature replica of the stiipa at each
corner, while the main entrance doorway in front of the
projecting vestibule is crowned likewise by a similar stupa
shrine. The roof of the vestibule as well as those of the
main shrine are lined each with a battlemented parapet at
each stage. The Patothamya resembles the Abeyadana in
general arrangement and composition. But the superstruc-
ture consists of flat roofs, instead of the ogee-shaped ones,
in the lower courses and a ten-sided dome with a corres-
ponding harmmikd and a conical chatravali as the crowning
element. The plan also exhibits signs of elaboration and
apart from the long. projection of the portico on the front
side there is a shallow offset projection in the centre of each
of the three other sides accommodating a rectangular door-
ABEYADANA AND PATOTHAMYA 147

way. A miniature square turret appears at each corner of
the different stages of the superstructure, as well as at the
centre of each stage, corresponding to the projection of the
vestibule and those of the shallow offsets. The parapet
at each stage of the roof is lined with a frieze of stipa
replicas, instead of battlements. Barring these variations,
which might have been due to gradual elaboration in course
of time, the Abeyadana and the Patothamya resemble each
other closely and must be classed as belonging to the same
type of monuments. They differ from the Nanpaya-
Nagayon-Ananda group only in the shape of the crowning
superstructure. In plan, in composition and in the main
lines of elevation both the groups represent the same con-
ception and the Abeyadana and the Patothamya; each with
its bell-shaped stiipa as the crowning element, should be
regarded asa sub-variety of the Nanpaya-Nagayon-Ananda
group, which has a curvilinear Sikhara instead.’”®

Except these two, no other temple, among the hundreds
that still stand at Pagan in various stages of preservation,
exhibit this kind of superstructure, which may, on this
account, be regarded as a singular feature. The characteris-
tic style of the Pagan temple may also be found reproduced
in relief on a number of terracotta votive tablets, discovered
from Pagan itself, as well as on a stone sculpture and
a terracotta votive tablet from Hmawza or the site of the
old city of Prome. In none of these can we discern the
stipa as the crowning superstructure of the temple, such
as we have in the Abeyadana and the Patothamya. A
stiipa raised over a series of graually receding terraces is,
however, a common feature of Burmese architecture and
such a stipa is known as the Zedi in Burma. But the stipa
as the crowning superstructure of a temple raised over a
gradually receding tiered roof can on no account be associa-
ted or confused with the zedi, i.e., the stipa raised overa
terraced basement. So as far as our present knowledge goes,

2 JGIS., Vol. EX, pp. 13-15, Pl. fV.
6
148 ' §. K. SARASWATI

the Abeyadana and the Patothamya appear to have been
without a parallel in Burmese architecture.

Though no exact replica of the Abeyadana-Patothamya
type of temple is known, a structural analogue, at least
in exterior elevation, may be found in the small but exqui-
sitely charming temple of Chandi Pavon in the Kedu ‘plain
in central Java.” In plan as well as in the internal arrange-
ment of the shrine the Pavon offers striking divergences
from the Abeyadana-Patothamya type. It consists of a
square (cruciform) cella on a wide basement. The cella
is surmounted, however, by a roof of two receding tiers
and is crowned by a bell-shaped stipa, supported ona
cruciform platform and with the conical chatravali as the
finial. This stiipa is further surrounded by smaller stapas
on the second tiered stage, at the corners as well as in the
centre of each side. It will thus be seen that, in spite of
wide differences, the Chandi Pavon in Java reproduces
in the external arrangement of its roof the prominent
characteristics of the Abeyadana-Patothamya type of temple
at Pagan in Burma.

From the simplicity of its design and from the style of
carvings the Chandi Pavon cannot be dated later than the
8th century A.D. and thus antedates the Burmese monu-
ments by at least 2 or 3 centuries. But this is the single
instance of such a kind of temple im the whole of Java, and
one solitary sample, though earlier, cannot indicate this
island as the source or origin of the peculiar type of monu-
ments in Burma, especially when we notice wide diver-
gences between the Burmese and Javanese specimens in
many fundamental points. It has already been shown that,
in spite of differences in detail, all the square temples at
Pagan, including the Abeyadadna and the Patothamya,
form a class by themselves, and that in external elevation
and appearance, viz. a roof of several tiered stages being
ultimately crowned by a superstructure, either a Sikhara

3 RC. Majumdar, Suvarnadvipa, Pt. Il, pp. 192-193 & Pl. IV.
ABEYADANA AND PATOTHAMYA 149

or a stipa, they might ultimately be traced to North-Eastern
India. In Bengal and Eastern India there have been
discovered a number of stone sculptures, each with the
representation in relief of a temple, the roof of which rises
in several gradually diminishing tiered stages and witha
curvilinear sikhara on the top of it as the crowning super-
structure. A similar type of temple may also be found
illustrated in several miniature paintings contained in a
manuscript of the Astasdhasrika Prajhidpdramita (Cambridge
Mss. Add. 1643), dated 135 Nepalese era, corresponding to
1015 A.D.* They illustrate several shrines in different parts
of Eastern India, which had already attained celebrity by
the time this manuscript was ccpied. These replicas of
temples on sculptures and in manuscript paintings, which
tally closely with those on the votive tablets from Pagan,
indicate a fair popularity of such a type of temple in
Eastern India and a fragmentary example of the type may
perhaps be recognised in the colossal temple at Paharpur
in the district of Rajshahi in North Bengal. The points of
contact as well as those of divergences between the
Burmese temple and the Indian one had been analysed in
detail before, but it cannot be doubted that the Indian
prototype had a great deal of influence on the evolution
of the characteristic monuments of Pagan.

The Abeyadana and the Patothamya, though included
within the characteristic style of the Pagan temples, exhibit
a singular feature, namely a stipa over the tiered roof,
for which we have no other parallel in Burmese architec-
ture. It should be pointed out in this connection that a
miniature st@pa as the pinnacle or the summit of a Buddhist
temple is nothing new. Being symbolic of the faith it was
used as the finial of a Buddhist shrine, just as the cakra
(discus) or the trisala (trident) is placed on the summit of
a temple of Visnu or of Siva. As such its use is very
common. and frequent both in India and Farther India. In

4 History of Bengal, Vol. 1, (ed. R. C. Majumdar) pp. 494-95. 503-
150 S. K. SARASWATI

the Abeyadana and the Patothamya the case is, however,
different. Here, in each case, the stipa is a part of
the structure itself and not merely its crowning finial.
Herein lies its singular interest, which adds to the unique-
ness of the monuments in question.

The Dravida style of temple in Southern India is charac-
terised by a pyramidal elevation of the tower (vimana),
which originally consisted of a multiplication of storey after
storey, eacha replica of the sanctum cella and slightly
reduced in extent than the one below, and of a domical
member, technically known as the stipi or stipikd, as the
crowning member of the whole edifice.” Some scholars may
find an analogy between the stipa surmounting the tiered
roof of ‘the Abeyadana-Patothamya type of temple at
Pagan and the octagonal or hemispherical dome crowning
the storeyed stages of the Dravida temple. But this ana-
logy fails to bear closer scrutiny. The domical crowning
member of the Dravida temple might have some superficial
resemblance with the hemispherical shape of the sti@pa and
may account for the technical term stapi or stapikd. But it
should be remembered that the term stépi is also used in
Silpa texts to mean merely the top of the tower, whatever its
shape might be, as in the case of the Nagara temples.®
Moreover, the stipi or stipikd crowning the Dravida temple
lacks the essential component elements of the stipa proper
and cannot be legitimately identified or equated with one.
The octagonal or hemispherical dome crowning the pyra-
midal roof of the Dravida temple-style cannot be cited
hence as an instance analogous to that of the Abeyadana-
Patothamya type of temple.

5 S. K. Saraswat, ‘Origins of the Medieval temple styles’, Indian
Culture, Vol. VHT, p. 188.

6 Cf. Upanastipiparyantarg yugasram Nagaram bhavet—Kamika-
gama, or

Stépyantam caturasram yan-Nagaram parikirttim—Mayamata.
ABEYADANA AND PATOTHAMYA 15%

The association of the Pagan style of temple as a main
class with Eastern India has been possible on the analogy of
the relief representations of temples of the Pagan style on
tablets and sculptures from Pagan and Prome in Burma with
similar replicas that have been found on several stone sculp-
tures in Eastern India. But in none of these do we find the
Abeyadana-Patothamya type represented and one is apt
to regard it as only a local and indigenous manifestation
of the main style, this main style being ‘ndebted for many
of its fundamental characteristics to inspiration from Eas-
tern India. But no other structural example of the type,
except these two, is known in the whole of Burma, nor is
the type represented on any of the numerous votive tablets
from Pagan bearing in relief the models of the Pagan style
of temple. For a prototype of the Abeyadana and the
Patothamya one has to search the region nearer to the
place, whence the original inspiration for the fundamentals
of the style came. But neither in the Eastern provinces,
nor in any part of India do we find a monument that may
approximate, even superficially, the Abeyadana-Pato-
thamya type of temple.

The Cambridge manuscript of the Astasdhasrikad Prajfia-
paramitad (Add. 1643), mentioned above, is of extreme
importance to the student of Indian architecture as handing
down to us remarkable sketches of many interesting types
of monuments that once adorned the different parts of
India, but which have well nigh perished and passed into
oblivion. Among its miniatures there are representations
of famous Buddhist shrines in India, specially Eastern India.
Some of these represent interesting architectural types,
of which not only no extant examples are known, but
even the memory has completely been forgotten. One
such type has already been taken note of, namely the tem-
ple with the tiered roof crowned by a curvilinear éikhara,
such as we have on the stone sculptures from Eastern India
and votive tablets and sculptures from Pagan and Prome
in Burma. There are at least three representations of such
152 _ §, K. SARASWATI

a type among the painted miniatures,’ which indicate a
fairly frequent usage of the type in ancient days, though
not a single example of it appears to exist now. These
sketches, coupled with similar relief replicas on  sculp-
tures and tablets from Eastern India and Burma, furnish
a forgotten, but, nonetheless, important chapter in the
history of Indian as well as Farther Indian architecture.

Still more interesting are the three sketches, represent-
ing respectively the shrines of Lokanatha in Nialendra .
(Bengal),® of Vaiégali Tara in Tirabhukti (North Bihar)® and
of Vajrapani in Uddiyadna.’® The location of the last is
unknown, but there is a volume of evidence in favour of
its being situated in Bengal '? Dr. Benoytosh Bhattacharyya
is inclined to identify it with Vajrayogini, a famous centre
of Tantrik worship in the district of Dacca.’*? These ske-
tches, all evidently from Eastern India, represent a signi-
ficant type of building that was in vogue in this region in
the ancient days, but every vestige of which had long been
wiped out. Not only there are not a single extant example,
but what is more, even relief representations of such a
kind of building, such as we have for the other forgotten
type, are lacking. These sketches are hence the only
records of the existence of such a type of building in Eastern
India in days long gone by.

Of the three shrines those at Uddiyana and Tirabhukti
appear to represent an earlier form. In each of these
we find a temple, the roof of which rises in several gra-
dually receding tiers and is surmounted by a fairly big
stipa, complete with all its component elements. Some-

Foucher, L’Iconographie Bouddhique, Pls. Wl, 4; V, 3; VII, 3.
Foucher, L'lconographie Bouddhique, Pl. V, 1.

Ibid., Pl. VII, 1.

10 Ibid. Pl. VI, 5.

11 IHQ., Vol. XI, pp. 142 ff.

12 Jowrnal of the Ganganatha Jha Research Institute, Vol. 1,

pp. 66-70.

Oo on
ABEYADANA AND PATOTHAMYA 153

times the edge of the tiers is indented, a feature that adds
to the decorative effect of the shrine. A more evolved
and elaborate form of the type may be recognised in the
temple of Lokanatha in Nalendra, where we find the cor-
ners at each stage decorated further with miniature repli-
cas of the crowning superstructure, 1.€., the stipa support-
ed on the last tier of the roof. Curious though such a
building may be, there can be no doubt that these sketches
were no inventions of imaginative artists, but were copied
from the actual shrines themselves, which had attained
sanctity and celebrity in those days. They appear to have
formed a significant architectural type that was in vogue
in Eastern India, especially in famous sites of old.

These sketches reproduce the typical characteristic of
the Abeyadana-Patothamya type of temple at Pagan, for
which we have no other parallel in Burma, either among
the numerous Pagan monuments nor among the relief
replicas that we posses of such monuments. The type,
however, was certainly in existence in Eastern [India before
the manuscript was copied, i.e., before 1015 A.D. The
Pagan style in its fundamental aspects may ultimately be
traced to Eastern India. The Abeyadana and the Pato-
thamya clearly demonstrate that even in the determining
of types and varieties within the style of Pagan temples
Fiastern Indian architectural tradition played a significant
and dominant part.*

[The illustrations have unavoidably been held over tall the next

issue of the /GIS,,—Ed.]
A Note onthe expression, Sat-tarka in

an Inscription of Champa

By DurGA CHARAN CHATTERJEE

A Po-Nagar inscription’ of King Indravarman Ill of
Champa dated 840 Saka (=918 A.D.) in connection with
the installation of an image of the goddess Bhagavati by
him, describes the scholarship of the king as follows:

mim4ams4a-sat-tarka-jinendra-siirmis

sakasika-vyadkaranodakaughah

aGkhyana-Ssaivottara-kalpa-minah

patistha etesviti sat-kavindm’
Here the expression mimamsa-sat-tarka has been translat-
ed’® as ‘the six systems of Philosophy beginning with
Mimamsa’, it being obviously interpreted as mimdamsddi-
sat-tarka. By the six systems of Philosophy we often
understand the six Brahmanical schools of thought usually
known as (1) Mimd@ms4a, (2) Vedanta, (3) Nydya, (4) Vaise-
sika, (5) Samkhya and (6) Patafijala. The six systems as des-
cribed by the Jaina scholar Haribhadrasiiri in his Saddar-
$anasamuccaya* are (1) Bauddha, (2) Jaina, (3) Nydya, (4)
Vaisesika, (5) Samkhya and (6) Mimamsa. It is interesting to
note that all these six systems have been regarded as dstika
by Haribhadra. He further observes that Nydya and

1 R. C. Majumdar, Ancient Indian Colonies in the Far East,
Vol. I, Champa, Book Ill, pp. 138-139.

2 In the above Mimamsa has been shortened to mimamsa for
metrical reasons. Cf. the well-known dictum api masam masam
kuryac chandobhangam tyajed giram (Mallinatha on the RaghuvamsSa,
XVIII, 23). The inscription in the original as reproduced by Dr. R.
C. Majumdar, (loc, cit.,) reads saka@$ika, but this is ungrammatical
Sakasika as approved by grammar and metre may therefore, be
suggested in its place.

3 R. C. Majumdar, op. cit. 4 Bib. Ind. ed., VI, 77-79.
SAT-TARKA IN AN INSCRIPTION OF CHAMPA _ 155

Vaigesika do form but one school and Carvaka known as
ndstika (unbeliever) should, therefore, be incorporated in
the group in order to have the six systems of thought. The
word tarka is sometimes used in a specific sense, as in the
Nydyasittra,° and sometimes in the general sense of ‘argu-
ment’ or ‘discussion’*®. But is there any authority for use
of the word gat-tarka to denote the six systems of Indian
Philosophy as they are commonly recognised ?”

Rajagekhara (c. 1000 A.D.) in his Kdavya-mimamsa
divides Gnvikgiki into piirva-paksa and ‘uttara-paksa, the
former comprising the schools of (i) Bauddha, (ii) Jaina,
and (iii) Ca@rudka, and the latter consisting of the schools
of (iv) Nyaya, (v) Vaiéesika, and (vi) Samkhya. And these
six systems have been designated by him as gat-tarka.®
Elsewhere in this work,* Rajagekhara has divided the Pra-
manikas or the experts in the pramdna-vidyd into two classes
—Mimdamsikas and Tarkikas, the latter being further classi-

and Vaisesika (Nydya-Vaigsesikiya), (iv) Bauddha (Bauddh-
iya), (v) Jaina (Arhata), and (vi) Carvadka (Lokdyatika).
Jayantabhatta (c. 1000 A.D.) uses the expression gsaf-tarka
in his Nydya-majfijari precisely in the same sense.’

5 Sce Visvanatha-vrtti on Nydya-sitra 1, 1. 40.

6 See Nydaya-kosa, published by Bhandarkar Oriental Institute,
Poona, s.v.; also Nyaya-sitra, Bengali tr. by Mm. Phanibhisan
Tarkavagisa, Vangiya Sahitya Parisat, Calcutta, and. ed., Vol. 1,
pp. 296-306. ,

7 It is to be noted in this connection that the word tarka has
been used to denote the number six. See Sanskrit-English Dic-
tionary by Monier-Williams, s.v.

8 dvidba canviksiki piirv-dttara-paksibbyam, arhad-bhadanta-
darsane lokayatam ca ptrvah paksab, samkbyam nydya-vaisesikan
cottarab, ta ime sat-tarkab (p. 4).

9 Pp. 36-7.

to {bid., Vizianagram Sanskrit Series, p. 4:—yatas samkbyar-
hatanam ......... asyam janatasu prasiddhayam=api  sat-tarkyam

7
156 DURGA CHARAN CHATTERJEE

We thus find that saf-tarka has come to be used in a
specific sense about 1000 A.D. As occurring in an ins-
cription of the same period, it should therefore be taken
in the sense of the six logical systems of (1) Bauddha- (2)
Jaina, (3) Carvadka, (4) Samkhya, (5) Nya@ya and (6) Vaiése-
sika. The expression mimdmsa-sat-tarka can be interpre-
ted as mimdmsd and gat-tarka. Mimdmsé, as it is well-
known, refers to both KarmamimaGmsé and Jiadnamimamsa
or Vedanta. Similarly SaGmkhya includes both the atheis-
tic school of Kapila and the theistic school of Patajfijali
(Patafijala or Yoga system). It is, therefore apparent that
in the inscription mentioned above mima@msd and _ sat-tarka
taken together stand for all the commonly known schools
of Indian Philosophy both Brahmanical and non-Brahmani-
cal, or at least for the logical portions of those schools: they
also cover the entire range of Prama@navidya which Raja-
Sekhara recommends for a poet.?' King Indravarman III of the
Champa inscription who has been described as one expert
as much in abstruse philosophy and grammar as in imagina-
tive poetic art, appears to have followed just what is pres-
cribed by Rajagekhara, possibly his contemporary in India.

idam=eva tarka-nyayavistara-sabdabhyam sastram-uktam. The state-
ment of Jayanta may be summarised as follows: The techniques of
inference of the (i) Samkhya, (11) Jaina and (iii) Buddhist schools do
not appear satisfactory and neither are they helpful for establishing
the authority of the Veda. The logic of the (iv) Carvaka is ridicu-
lously defective and can hardly claim any consideration. The
Vaisesika being just in agreement with the (vi) Nyaya position,
need not be regarded as a different system. So notwithstanding what
is commonly recognised as the sat-tarka or the group of the six ~
systems of tarka, the word tarka or nyaya-vistara as one of the
fourteen vidas refers alone to the Nyaya system of Aksapada. For
Jayantabhatta’s date, see S. C. Vidyabhisana, History of indian
Logic p. 47. With sat-tarka, cf. Sad-darsant, Sad-darsana-samuccaya,
Tarka-rabasya-dipika, p. 1, \. 17.

it Kavyamimamsa, pp. 36-38.
NOTICES OF BOOKS

Wayfarer’s Words, Vol. Il. By Mrs. C.A.F. Rhys
Davids, D.Litt., M.A. London 1941. Pp. 373-719.

It is with a heavy heart that we take up our pen to
review the exceedingly thoughtful work of a savant who is
no more in this world. This work is the second volume
of Mrs. Rhys Davids’ sporadic writings and lectures (nos.
31-60). OF late Mrs. Rhys Davids has been harping on
the theme that Buddha's Buddhism was first distorted by
the Pali commentators, particularly by Buddhadatta and
Buddhaghosa and then by the present day orientalists,
many of whom missed the real sense of a Pali word.
Much harm has been done, she says, to the true com-
prehension of Buddhism by the careless rendering of Pali
words and expressions into an European language. There
is much force in this remark but the stumbling-block is
that to write on Buddhism, one must use some European
language as his medium of expression. Mrs. Rhys Davids
herself has started using new words and even coining
some for this purpose. She rejected some of the hack-
neyed words used in translations and_ substituted others
which would give more sense, e.g- Buddha= Pioneer (p. 473),
Waywitter (p. 474), tanha=strong will .(p. 481), brahma-
cariya=the God-life (p. 492), atta=Man in the mind (not
“‘self’’ used by Oldenberg and Rhys Davids, pp. 448-
450), and so forth. The favourite style of expression
adopted by Mrs. Rhys Davids is as follows: ‘‘And this
was just the object of Sakyan- mission; its emphasis lay,
not on the Most, Highest, Best, but on the More, the
Way in which man could become that More, the carrying out
religion, not in ritual, not in assertion of identity with the
Highest, but in so living as to be growing, fructifying in that
More on the way to the Most’’ (p. 420).

The above extract gives an idea not only of her style
158 - NOTICES OF BOOKS

of writing but also the substance of her new interpretation
of original Buddhism. She is of opinion that Buddha took.
the doctrine of immanence from'’the Upanisads, but he did
not recommend the practice of introspection leading to the
identification of the self with the Highest, (the ‘‘Most”’ of
Mrs. Rhys Davids); he recommended a gradual purification
and _ spiritual uplift, in the words of the authoress he
laid emphasis on the ‘‘More’’ which, of course, would
ultimately lead to the ‘‘Most,’’ the Brahman of the Upani-
sads (p. 602). Buddha, she states, accepted the principle
of immanence in Brahmanism of that day, but he rejected
the rituals and laid emphasis on conduct, and ultimately, the
difference between Brahmanism and Buddhism became
widened in the conception of *‘aAtman’’ which in the Upani-
sads meant ‘“‘best self,’’ in Buddhist texts ‘something non-
existent,’’ while in Christianity ‘‘our worse self’’ (p. 608).
Through all these lectures and writings of late Mrs, Rhys
Davids has harped on the theme that Nirvana originally did
not mean either annihilation or a state of peace and rest and
happiness; it was the state of immanence ‘‘the teaching
man how, as wayfarer in the worlds he might, seeking his
attha, finally become That’’ (p. 658). In fact, she has
been drifting towards Mahayanic interpretation of Nirvana,
i.e. Tathata=Thatness, though she says that in “‘Mahayana
the cult of words begat a metaphysic of absolutism’”’
while in Hinayana (Theravada) the cult of words begat
some psychology and logic. In both the founder as a real
man, and his real gospel, were practically lost sight of
(p. 705).°’ By forceful reasoning, she wants to estab-
lish that Buddha was never antitheistic. Her conclusion is
that ‘‘Buddhism at its birth was in a fair, true way theistic
than other world creeds” (p. 451).

In thie review we have tried to indicate the lines in
which Mre. Rhys Davids wanted to intrepret Buddhism
lately. She has in fact rejected several pet theories of
the Palists. She boldly asserts that Buddhism is a reorien-
tation of the Upanisadic teaching, that Buddha was more
NOTICES OF BOOKS > 159

theistic than any other teacher, and that his Nirvana was
nothing but the Upanigadic doctrine of Immanence. In
conclusion we may say that this new approach to the prob-
lem of Buddhist philosophy should be seriously taken up
by the Palists, because there is much force in it as it has
come from one who can claim to be one of the greatest
Palists of the present day and perhaps the first and the fore-
most in the studies of Pali Abhidhamma. She has, however,
unconsciously drifted towards Makayadna. and accepted the
claim of the Mahayanists that the Hinayanic interpretations
were superficial. After all, the lectures and writings are
thought-provoking and we hope these will be read in the
spirit they are written.

N. Dutt.

Tho Successors of the Satavahanas in Lower Decsan. By
Dines Chandra Sircar, M. A., Ph.D. Published by the
Calcutta University. Pp. xv+417. Calcutta 1939.

This is a contribution of first-rate importance to the study
of the dynasties that ruled in the lower Deccan in the
interval between the downfall of the Satavahanas and the
Calukya conquest. In his attempt to reconstruct the regional
history of the period in question, the author has frequently
had occassion to tackle numerous problems of genealogy,
chronology and geography, to correct errors of former
workers in the field, and to explain a number of technical
terms and expressions occurring in the inscriptions such as
ayukta, vallabha, neyika-naiyogika, hiranyagarbhodbhav-
odbhava, avasitavividha-divya and so forth. His discussions
are marked not only by a high degree of technical equip-
ment including a thorough knowledge of palaeography and
of the relevant general literature, but also by sound judg-
ment and they are always expressed in a clear incisive
style. In the result he has not only laid a sound basis for
the political history of an important tract in the first few
centuries of the Christian era, but has also presented
4 NOTICES OF BOOKS

illuminating side-lights on its administration and the state
of contemporary society and religion.

The work under notice consists of two Parts. In Part I
(chs. I-VI) the author deals successively with the history
of the Ikevakus, the Brhatphalayanas, the Anandas, the
Salankadyanas, the Visnukundins and the Early Pallavas
who ruled the Andhra country in the period in question.
Part I] (chs. I-IV) reviews the history of the different
branches of the Early Kadambas and of the Kekayas who
ruled the Kanarese country during the same period. The
author has earned the thanks of his readers by including
a map at the beginning of his work and by adding ten
valuable Appendices and a good Index at its end.

We have noticed a few printing mistakes not corrected
in the list of Addenda et Corrigenda at the end, such as
Puru (p. 10), Andau (p. 162), Arjundyana (p. 230), Tusadspa
(p. 322) and Todd (pp. 350-351).

U. N. Ghoshal

Ceylon under the British Occupation (1795-1833). its
Political, Administrative and Economic Development. By
Colvin R. de Silva, B.A., Ph.D. (Lond.) Bar-at-law. 2nd ed.,
2 vols. Published by the Colombo Apothecaries Co., Ltd.
Colombo, Ceylon. Pp. x+639. Price, vol. 1 Rs. 6/50;
vol. If Rs. 7/50.

In this well-documented and scholarly work, which
was originally presented as a Doctorate thesis of the London
University, the author gives us an admirably thorough and
accurate description of the early history of British rule in
Ceylon. The work consists of three sections, Political,
Administrative, and Economic, with an introduction sketch-
ing the condition of the Island just before the British
conquest and a Conclusion drawing together the different
lines of development at the end. The author’s narrative is
throughout based on minute and first-hand study of original
sources including Manuscript records in tha British Colonial
Office, the India Office, the British Museum, the Colombo
NOTICES OF BOOKS 161

Archives and the Colombo Museum as well as printed
records of Parlimentary debates. old Journals, contempo-
rary works and the like. The author's analysis of historical
causes and effects is sound and penetrating, his style is
clear and effective, his critical observations are suggestive
and stimulating. We can best illustrate our remarks in
this last respect by making a few quotations. Commenting
upon the fall of the last independent king of Kandy, the
author writes (pp. 156-57):—‘‘A petty state, mediaeval in
structure, unprogressive in ideas, parochial in policy and
diplomacy and rent by internal dissensions, could not any-
how have checked the advance of a modern imperial power.
...But the extraordinary ease with which the British conquest
of Kandy was accomplished in a campaign of only forty
days excites remark. It is to be ascribed to the disloyalty
of the entire body of chiefs and the disaffection of the
common people....lt was a repetition of an old and tragic
tale. The Kandyans turned with a too facile readiness to
the idea of bringing in the foreigner to settle their domestic
differences. That pitcher went once too often to the well.
The convenient arbitrator became the permanent master.
The Kandyans accomplished their own political doom.”
Again, in bringing his narrative to a close with the fateful
year 1833—the date itself is a reminder of the close parallel
between modern Indian and Sinhalese history—the author
observes (p. 594): —‘*The year 1833 constitutes a definite
and important landmark in the history of Ceylon. After
centuries of war, disruption and disunion, the Island had
been completely pacified, politically united and administra-
tively consolidated under the British sceptre. The rulers
of Ceylon could now turn unhindered, with a reorganised
and modernised administration, to the task of opening up
the Island and developing its resources....In short, the
foundations of the present political, administrative and
economic structure of Ceylon were laid during the period
1796-1833, and the reforms of 1833 completed and rounded
off that work. Ceylon was firmly set on the highway of
162 “NOTICES OF BOOKS

modern development. A new era in her history had
dawned.”

U. N. Ghoshal.

Annual Bibliography of indian History and indology,
vol. Il for 1939. By Braz A. Fernandes. Published by the
Bombay Historical Society, Bombay 1941. Pp. xxiiit+ 191.
Price Rs. 5/.

In recent times the two well-known series of publications,
the Annual Bibliography of Indian Art and Archaeology
and the Bibliographie Bouddhique published respectively by
the Kern Institute of Leyden and a Committee of scholars
with J. Przyluski and M. Lalou at its head, have been of
immense service for the cause of Indological and allied
studies. It was a matter of extreme regret to all concerned
that these two useful series ceased publication in 1939 and
1937 respectively. It speaks much for the enterprise and
love of scholarship of the Bombay Historical Society that
it was able almost at once to step into the breach by publish-
ing a Bibliography of Indian History and Research for 1938
as a Supplement to its well-known Journal. The present
volume marks a fresh step in advance as it is published
independently with an improved arrangement. It consists of
five sections bearing the titles (1) India, Burma and Ceylon
(il) Further India and Indonesia (III) Adjoining countries
(IV) Islamic world and (V) Miscellaneous. The first and
by far the longest section (134 pp.) is divided into a number
of sub-sections under appropriate headings Each Section or
Sub-section gives the author’s name in alphabetical order
along with the titles of the books and references and in
some cases short notices of contents. An Index of Authors
and a Subject Index brings this useful volume to a close.

In a work of this compass it is easy to pick up defects
such as the over-lapping of topics, the omission of impor-
tant names and the meagre notices of contents of even
important books and articles. We have noticed a few
NOTICES OF BOOKS 163

duplications (e.g. nos. 783 and 812) and a number of print-
ing mistakes (such as those under nos. 249, 254, 286, 321,
342, 348, 455 and 746). We have no doubt that with wider
experience and with closer co-operation of scholars and
learned institutions, the Annual Bibliography of Indian
History and Indology will overcome all such defects. We
wish the new venture a long and prosperous career.

U. N. Ghoshal.

Early History of the Andhra Country. By K. Gopala-
chari, M. A,, Ph.D. Madras University Historical Series
No. 16. Published by the University of Madras, 1941. Pp.
xiv + 226 and 12 plates. Price Rs. 5/8. .

This well-written monograph maintains the high standard
of scholarship that we have been used to expect from the
series .of historical publications issued by the Madras
University under the inspiring and skilled guidance of Prof.
K. A. Nilakanta Sastri. As the author tells us in his short
Preface, ‘It is an attempt to present a connected history
of the Andhras and the Andhra country from the earliest
times to the advent of the Eastern Calukyas."" In accord-
ance with this plan the author first deals (chs. I-VI), as
exhaustively as the scanty materials will permit, with the
much discussed but still far from certain, history of the
Satavahanas. In the following chapters (VII-XI) he traces
with equal ability the less known history of the dynasties
following the Satavahanas in the Telugu country, viz: the
Iksvakus, the Brhatphalayanas, the Vaingeyakas (usually
called Salankayanas), the Kandaras (usually known as
Anandas) and the Visnukundins. Over and above his recons-
truction of the dynastic history, the author has presented
in each case valuable notices of the conditions of govern-
ment, society and religion prevailing in those times.

Presented as a University Doctorate thesis. the present
work bears on every page the stamp of ripe scholar-
ship. The author's use of his sources, extending to a

8
164 NOTICES OF BOOKS

minute and painstaking examination of the epigraphic,
numismatic and literary data, is thorough and exhaustive.
What is more, his treatment of numerous difficult and
disputed questions of history, geography and chronology is
marked by critical acuinen of a high order.

We propose to offer a few remarks for the consideration
of the ‘author in the event of a new edition being called for.
The notices of administrative arrangements of the Sata-
vahana and other dynasties should include an account of
the prevailing land system. It was pointed out by the pre-
sent reviewer in another connection (Agrarian System in
Ancient India, pp. 34-37) that the records of the Satavahanas
and their contemporaries and immediate successors in the
Deccan and South India testify to the extraction of revenue
from the royal farms and allotments in villages, the land
revenue in the proper sense of the term being probably as
yet unknown. In the chapters on social conditions the
author's notes on dress and ornaments, luxury, military
arrangement etc. (pp. 98-104) should be amply illustrated
by sketches from the monumental sculptures somewhat on
the lines of Mr. C. Sivaramamutti's recently published fine
monograph Amaravati Sculptures in the Madras Museum.
The section on economic conditions should similarly be
rendered more vivid by means of sketch-maps indicating the
ports, the market towns, trade-routes etc. as far as ascer-
tainable. An attempt should also be made to trace as much
as possible the ratio between the different metallic curren-
cies of the Satavahanas, the purchasing power of the local
currency and so forth. A few misprints e. g. Kalimpur
(p. 148n) require correction.

U.N. Ghoshal.

Some Historical Aspects of the Inscriptions of Bengal
(Pre-Muhammadan Epoch). By Benoy Chandra Sen,
M. A., B.L., Ph.D. (Lond.). Published by the University of
Calcutta, 1942. Pp. Ixxviit+613. Price not stated.

This is one of the most important publications on Ancient
NOTICES OF BOOKS ° 165

Indian history appearing in recent years. Its modest
title hardly does justice to its high and varied merita. While
inscriptions, naturally enough, form the most important
source of his work, the author has laid under contribution
all available literary and archaeological data extending
from the eariiest times to the downfall of the Sena rule in
West Bengal at the end of the twelfth or beginning of the
thirteenth century A-D. On the many difficult and disputed
questions that crop up in the course of his narrative the
author writes not only with full knowledge, but also with
scholarly sobriety and restraint.

In the course of a long Introduction the author gives a
valuable bibliography of Bengal .Inscriptions arranged in
chronological order along with genealogical and chrono-
logical tables of the ruling dynasties and a list of foreign
invaders of Bengal. He also presenta a welcome résumé of
the more important results of recent research which could
not be incorporated into the body of his work.

The Book consists of three parts. Part 1! (unfortunately
lacking in a map) contains by far the fullest and the most
exhaustive account of the ancient geography of Bengal.
Here in successive chapters the author passes in review the
ample but widely scattered data derivable from Indian
tradition and from Greek and Latin sources as well as_ those
of later times classified conveniently under the heads of the
broad geographical divisions. A concluding chapter brings
together a number of unsolved problems of Ancient Bengal
Geography. .

In Part 11 dealing with Political History the author treads a
more extensively beaten track. But he treats numerous disput-
ed points of detail with his usual originality, skill and learning.
Among the more important topics dealt with by him, we
may mention Kharavela’s chronology and his relations with
Benga! (pp. 175-192), the identity of Emperor Chandra of
the Meharauli Inscription (pp. 200-205), the Gupta imperial
succession after Kumaragupta | (pp. 216-224), the chronology
of the Dharmaditya group of kings (pp. 252-255), the chain
"T

166 ' NOTICES OF BOOKS

of events leading to the conflict between Saganka and
Harga (pp. 262-271), the chronology of the Khadga dynasty
(pp. 279-281), early Pala chronology and Pala origins (pp.
293-308), the connections of the Kamboja ruling families
and especially of king Rajyapala of the Idra grant (pp.
376-380), the origin of the Senas with especial reference to
the significance of the title Brahmakgatriya (pp. 432-455),
the origin of the Laksmana Sena era (pp. 462-469) and the
chronology of the Senas (pp. 469-479).

In Part Il the author attempts to give as far as possible
a connected account of the public administration of Bengal
from Maurya times to the end of Sena rule. In this con-
nection he deals adequately with such important topics as
the system of provincial, district and village administration
under the [Imperial Guptas and their immediate successors
(pp. 490-521), the constitutional importance of the election
of Gopiala | (pp. 525-528), the significance of administrative
titles (pp. 534-553) and the system of provincial, district
and village administration under the Palas and Senas as well
as minor dynasties (pp. 554-556).

We have noticed a few slips and omissions not referred to in
the list of Addenda et Corirgenda, which may be rectified in a
later edition. To the list of Bengal Inscriptions (pp. xi ff.)
should be added (1) and (2) two Midnapore Sahitya-Parisat
Museum copper-plate inscriptions of Saganka and (3) Naraya-
napur Image Inscription of Mahipala I (>). On p. 168 Jaugada
should be read in place of Jaugarh. On p. 173 in connection
with the discussion of the identity of the Yavana invader
of the Gangetic valley mention should be made of Dr. W.
W. Tarn's notable theory in his work The Greeks and
Bactrians in India. On p. 245 the supposed reference in
the Aphsad inscription of Adityasena to the slaying of
Damodaragupta in a battle with the Maukharis should be
corrected in the light of Prof. Ksetresa Chandra Chatto-
padhyaya’s explanation (D.R. Bhandarkar Volume, pp.
181-2). On p. 275 the statement about the end of Tibetan
rule in India and Nepal in 703 A.D. which is based on E. H.
NOTICES OF BOOKS * 167

Parker's paper in the Journal of the Manchester Oriental
Society should be properly verified. (For a different view
on this point see the History of Bengal, vol. 1, published by
the Dacca University, p. 93). On p. 435 the statement that
Hari was put to death along with Bhima should k= rectified.
In the chapter on administration under the Palas and Senas
(p. 549) notice should be taken of the interpretation by the
present reviewer (Hindu Revenue System, pp. 219-220) of
the title DaSdparddhika which has been practically left
unexplained. On p. 54] the explanation of gaulmika as
‘Superintendent of Forests’ is a slip. In connection with
references in Sena grants (pp. 569-570) to the income from
lands and villages, mention should be made of the reviewer’s
suggestion (op. cit., pp. 265-66) of the substitution by the
Senas of a system of cash payments for the older rule of
payment in kind.

The high value of the present work, which in its original
form secured for its author the Doctorate degree of the
London University, has not been diminished by the recent
publication by the Dacca University of the History of Bengal.
vol. 1, although the first ten chapters of the latter work cover
exactly the same ground. The present author has done
well in adding a good index extending over thirty-five
pages of closely printed matter at the end.

U. N. Ghoshal!
The Twelfth All-India Orienta! Conference,
Benares

By Dr. Sunitr Kumar CuHartreryi

The Twelfth All-India Oriental Conference took
place at Benares in the premises of the Benares Hindu
University under the auspices of the University on the
30th and 3lst December $943 and the Ist and 2nd
January 1944. The conference is held every two years—the
last session was at Hyderabad, Deccan. This year the
General President was Rao Bahadur Dr. S. K. Belvalkar of
Poona, eminent Sanskritist of present-day India. There
were 14 sections for the different branches of Indology,
including a Pandita-Parishad or Gathering of Sanskrit
scholars of the old type which was presided over by
Mahamahopadhyaya Pandit Giridhar Sarma Chaturvedi,
Principal of the Maharaja’s Sanskrit College, Jaipur. The
other Sections and Sectional Presidents were the following :
(1) Vedic—Dr. Kunhan Raja, Professor of Sanskrit, Madras
University; (2) Iranian, Dr. J. M. Unvala of Navsari:
(3) Islamic History and Culture, Dr. S. M. H. Nainar,
Madras University; (4) Arabic and Persian, Dr. M. Iqbal,
Oriental College, Lahore; (5) Sanskrit, Mahamahopadhyaya
Dr. P. V. Kane, Bombay; (6) Religion and Philosophy,
Mahamahopadhyaya Dr. Umesh Mishra, Ailahabad Univer-
sity; (7) Pali and Buddhism, Dr. P. V. Bapat, Fergussom
College, Poona; (8) Prakrit and Jainism, Prof. Hiralal Jain,
Amraoti; (9) History and Geography, Dr. H. C. Ray,
Ceylon University; (10) Archaeology, Rao Bahadur C. R.
Krishnamacharlu, Superintendent of Epigraphy, Madras;
(ll) Philology and Indian Linguistics, Dr. S. K. De, Dacca
University; (12) Technical Sciences, Prof. P. C. Das Gupta,
Calcutta; (13) Hindi, Rai Bahadur Dr. Shyamsundar Das,
Benares. It has been decided to add a new section from
the next session onwards, that on Dravidian Studies.
ALL-INDIA ORIENTAL CONFERENCE 169

There was quite a large attendance, all the Universities
and a great many learned bodies in India being represented,
and Benares as the intellectual centre of Hinduism naturally
attracted a good number of delegates. One delegate
represented China—Dr. F. K. Li (Li Fang-Kucij, who is a
distinguished linguistician of Modern China. Dr. Li was
sent by the Academia Sinica and the Sino-Indian Cultural
Association of Chung-king, and, in addition to attending
the Conference, Dr. Li intended to make a tour of India
and to form contacts with our scholars particularly in Indo-
logy and in Linguistics with a view to future collaboration
in scholarship relating to Sino-Indian and other cultural
matters, including linguistic investigation of Indian
languages of the Sino-Tibetan family. The visit of Dr. Li
was thus highly significant, and although foreign delegates
had attended the all-India Oriental Conference before, it
was the first time that we had an official representative from
our great neighbour China. It is hoped that the coming
of Dr. Li from China, combined with the interchange of
students between India and China which has already taken
place and with the interchange of professors which may be
arranged for in the near future, will usher in a new era of
Sino-Indian fellowship through study and research into the
culture of Asia and Asiatic peoples—a prospect which the
Greater India Society cannot but contemplate with pleasure.
There are already some Chinese scholars and_ students
resident in Calcutta, at Santiniketan (in the Cina-bhavana,
an Institute of Chinese Research) and at Sarnath near
Benares, and in addition to Dr. Li, some of these scholars
from China (notably Mr. T. F. Chou, who is studying
Sanskrit and Indian languages in India) also attended.
There were two delegates representing Poland, Dr.
Maryla Falk of Calcutta University, and Dr. Ludwic
Sternbach.

The Conference was formally opened at I2 on the 31st
December by the Pro-Chancellor of the University,
Maharajadhira} Sir Kameshwar Singh of Darbhanga in the
170 ALL-INDIA ORIENTAL CONFERENCE

Sayajirao Library Hall, after which Dr. Belvalkar read his
presidential address. The Pandita Parishad and _ the
different sections held their meetings, and over 200 papers
were contributed by scholars. There were three symposia
arranged in which distinguished specialists took part—
(1) Who overthrew the Kushana Empire—the Bharasivas,
the Vakdtakas, or the Yaudheyas? (2) The Vikrama
Era (the present year, 1944, corresponds to year 2000
of the Vikrama Samvat, and in various places in India
celebrations of the commencement of the third millennium
of the Vikrama Era are being held, so that this subject had
a special topical interest in the present conference): (3) the
Data of the Mahabharata War; (4) the Authenticity of the
Bhasa Plays; and (5) Hindi as the Lingua-Franca for India.
The last symposium was held under the joint auspices of
the Linguistic and Modern Indian Languages Section of the
Conference and the Linguistic Society of India, and as the
subject had a very wide appeal, there was a large gathering
of both members of the Conference and of the public.

The Linguistic Society of India employs the occasion of
the All-India Oriental Conference to hold its two-yearly
sittings, and this time also the Society held its session. The
report of the Society for the last two years was read by
the secretary, Dr. Sukumar Sen of the University of Calcutta,
and new  office-bearers were elected with Dr. Suniti
Kumar Chatterji as President. The Society brings out its
Quarterly Journal Indian Linguistics and seeks to constitute
an important forum for all higher linguistic work in India.

The papers contributed to the different sections were (as
naturally would be the case) of diverse quality with a few
echoing fantastic theories and views, but there were some
important articles. The Aryan and non-Aryan question is
coming larger and larger into prominence, and in Linguistics,
slowly the Indian investigators are extending the scope of
their researches into Indo-European. Topics of Greater
Indian interest were conspicuous by their absence, this
year, unfortunately. There was a solitary paper on Relation
ALL-INDIA ORIENTAL CONFERENCE 17t

between Bengal and‘ China in Ancient Times by Dr. D. C.
Ganguli of Dacca University. together with another on
Early Arab Expeditions to India by Mr. M. A. Khalia.
M.A. of Delhi. We only wish that Indian scholars turned
their attention to this aspect of Indology, and devoted
greater attention to the question of Indian contacts with
other countries of Asia, particularly in ancient and medi-
eval times.

The Conference, on the whole, was a great success,
both academically and socially. Apart from the papers and
learned lectures there was a _ lunch (vegetarian and purely
dl’ indienne) given by the Chancellor of the University, His
Highness the Maharaja of Jammu and Kashmir, and At
Homes given by the Maharajadhiraja of Darbhanga, by the
Nadgart Pracarinit Sabha (Academy of Hindi Literature) of
Benares, and by Sir Vijaya of Vizianagram. Visits were
paid to see the collections of the Nagari Prac@rini Sabha
(old pictures, MSS., sculptures and remains from recent
excavations of Sarnath), and the members were taken to see
the ruins of Sarnath and the recent Buddhist temples and
other establishments there.

Sir Sarvapalli Radhakrishnan, the Vice-Chancellor of
Benares Hindu University, and Dr. A. S. Altekar, the
local Secretary, together with the staff and student
volunteers of the University were all attention to the guests,
and considering the present situation in India, through the
Japanese carrying on air raids on the soil of India and
through acute famine in Bengal and elsewhese and general
economic dislocation and distress all over India, the
Conference was a brilliant success and was one of the
most important events during the year in the cultural life
of present-day India.
Select Contents of Oriental Journals

Bulletin of the Schoo! of Oriental and African Studies,
Vol. XI, Pt. |.

H. W. Bailey.—Iranica [Exegetical notes on a number of

words including Arabic Barmak traced through Bactrian
to Skt. Pramukha used in various Khotanese texts as
a title of the head of the Buddhist monastery].

Lionel Giles.—Dated Chinese Manuscripts in the Stein
Collection, VI. Tenth Century. [A valuable catalogue
of documents from Tun-huang including the oldest
printed sheet in the world. Containing a large variety of
miscellaneous prayers, eulogies, certificates, contracts,
etc., it illustrates the growing poverty and _ political
unrest of the region and shows how Buddhism, though,
still the dominant religion, had degenerated since the
great days of the T’angs].

University of Ceylon Review, April 1943, Vol. 1, No. |
C. E. Godakumbura.—References to Buddhist Sanskrit

Writers in Sinhalese Literature. [Contains a large num-
ber of quotations and other references traced to their
Buddhist Sanskrit sources].

Journal of the Ceylon Branch of the Royal Asiatic
Society, 1943, vol. XXXV, pt. 4.

S. Paranavitana.—A Ndgari Legend on some Sinhalese
coins. [Gives the correct reading as Aka which is a pure
Sinhalese word for a class of coins mentioned in Sinha-
lese literature and tenth century inscriptions] .
ADDITIONS TO OUR LIBRARY

The Greater India Society begs to acknowledge with
thanks the receipt of the following periodicals and books

since the last notice in J/GIS., Vol. X, No. 1.

Periodicals

Adyar Library Bulletin, Vol. VII, pts. 3 & 4.

Bharatiya Vidya Patrika, Vol. I, pts. 7-12; Vol, Il, pts. 2
& 3.

Bulletin of the Deccan College Research Institute, Vol. IV,
Nos. 3 & 4.

Bulletin of the School of Oriental and African Studies, Vol.
XI, pt. 1.

Indian Historical Quarterly, Vol. XIX, No. 3.

Journal of Andhra History and Culture, Vol. I, No. 3.

Journal of the Annamalai University, Vol. XII, No. 1

Journal of Indian History, Vol. XXII, pts. 2 & 3.

Journal of Sri Venkatesvara Oriental Institute, Vol. IV,
No. 2.

Nagari Pracharini Patrika, Vol. 47, pts. 3 & 4.

Books, Pamphlets, Etc.

Arabica and Islamica. By U. Wayriffe. Luzac & Co.,
London 1940.

Chandragupta Maurya and his Times. (Sir William Meyer
Lectures, 1940-41). By Dr. Radha Kumud Mookerji,
M.A., Ph.D., Madras University. Madras, 1943.

Excavations at Rairh. By Dr. K. N. Puri, B.Sc., D. Lit.,
(Paris). Department of Archaeology and _ Historical
Research, Jaipur State.

Wayfarer’s Words, vol. Il. By Mrs. C. A. F. Rhys Davids,
D. Litt., M.A., London 1941.
Printed and Published by Sj. J. C. Sarkhel, Manager, Calcutta Oriental
Press Ltd., g, Panchanan Ghosh Lane, Calcutta.
Sir Marc Aurel Stein Memorial Number—Part I

THE

JOURNAL

OF THE

GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

oo
Vor. XI JANUARY: 1944 No. 1
EDITED BY
U.N, GHOSHAL
Articles: Pace

In Memoriam—The late Sir M. A. Stein (Dr. N. P. Chakravarti) I
The Colophon of the Jataka-stava (Prof. H. W. Bailey) 10

The term Agiala in two Kharosthi Inscriptions

(T. Burrow) se ee we te 13
Negapatam and Theravada Buddhism in South Indra

(Dr. S. Paranavitana) ... 17
The Tamil land and the Eastern Colonies

(Prof, K. A. Nilakanta Sastti) 26
Geographical Notes on the Kurram Valley

(Dr. V. S. Agrawala) ... 29
Background of Sufism in Indian Environment

(M. L. Ray Chaudhury) 31

Editorial Notes : 42

Published by—
THE GREATER INDIA SOCIETY, CALCUTTA

Agents outside India—
Messrs. LUZAC & CO., 46 Great Russell Strget, London, w. ¢. 1.

Annual Subscription—Rs. 4-8 or .8:.-6d., including postage.
Greater India Society (£stablished 1927)
~ . Aims and Objects

1. To organise the study of Indian Culture in Greater India (i.e.
Serindia, India Minor, Indo-China and Insulindia) as well as in China,
Korea, Japan and other countries of Asia.

2. To arrange for publication of the results of researches into the
history of India’s spiritual and cultural relations with the outside world.

3. To create an interest in the history of Greater India and
connected problems among the students in the schools, colleges, and
Universities of India by instituting a systematic study of those subjects
and to take proper steps to stimulate the same.

4. To popularise the knowledge of Greater India by organising
meetings, lantern lectures, exhibitions and conferences.

Membership Rules

1. The annual subscription payable by members is Rs. 12/- only.
Members are entitled to receive the publications of the Society at
concession rates and copies of the Journal of the Society free of cost.

2. Resident members may have access to the Society's collection
of books, pamphlets and periodicals etc. on application either to
the Honorary Secretary of the Society or the Librarian. Calcutta
University. : The Society’s collection is housed, by arrangement with
the Calcutta University authorities, in the University Library.

Officers and Members of the Managing Committee,
. Greater India Society, 1944

President—Vacant.

Vice-Presidents—Rao Bahadur K.N. Dikshit, M.A., O. C. Gangoly,
Esq-, Dr. R. E. Mortimer Wheeler, D.Litt.

Hony. Secretary —Dr. U. N. Ghoshal, M.A,, Ph.D.

Hony. Jt. Secretary—Dr. Kalidas Nag, M.A.. D.Litt, (Paris.)

Other Members of the Committee—Dr. Narendra Nath Law, M.A.,
Ph.D., Prof. Suniti Kumar Chatterjee, M.A., D.Litt.. (Lond,);
Dr. Prabodh Chandra Bagchi, M.A., D.Litt., (Paris); Dr.
Nalinaksha Dutt, M.A., Ph.D., D.Litt. (London.); Mm. Vidhu-
sekhara Bhattacharyya; Dr. Nihar Ranjan Ray, M.A., Ph.D.,
D.Litt., (Leiden); Dr. Jitendranath Banerjea, M.A., Ph.D.;
T.N. Ramachandran, Esq., M.A.

JOURNAL OF THE CREATER INDIA SOCIETY

Published twice a year, in January and July. Annual Subscrip-
tion—Rs. 4-8 or 8s.-6d. —inclusive of postage. Volumes I-X already
published.
Sir Mare Aurel Stein
(1862-1943)
THE

JOURNAL

OF THE

GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

Vo: XI JANUARY: 1944 No. 1

Sir M. A. Stein
By Dr, N. P. CHAKRAVaRTI

Mare Aurel Stein was born at Budapest, Hungary, on the 26th
of November 1862. He wasason of M. Nicholas and Anna Stein.
Nicholas Stein, who was a merchant in Zombar and Budapest, had
his son educated in his early years in the public schools of Budapest
and Dresden. After finishing his early education, young Mare Aurel
joined the Universities of Vienna, Leipzig and Tiibingen, where he
studied during the years 1879-85, the classical languages and antiquities
of India and Iran. He was a pupil of Professor Johann Georg Biihler
among other well known Orientalists in Germany at the time. After
taking his Doctorate of Philosophy in 1883, he came to England and
carried on research work at Oxford and London on old Persian philo-
sophy and early Indian history during the years 1885-87. Later he
carried on further researches in Oriental languages before coming to
India in. 1888 when he was appointed both the Principal of the
Oriental College at Lahore and the Registrar of the Panjab University,
which combined post he held for eleven years, up to 1899. It was
during this period that Stein visited the valley of Kashmir with a
view to obtain possession of the valuable Codex Archetipus of the
Rajatarangini, a chronicle of the rulers of Kashmir written by the
Kashmirian Pandit Kalhana in 1148. This valuable manuscript, which
was undoubtedly copied in the latter half of the seventeenth century
by the Kashmirian scholar Ratna Kantha, formed the basis of Stein's
accredited edition of this most veluable work. This particular
manuscript also contained marginal notes on the details of the topogra-
phy of Kashmir in addition to various readings and corrections made
by four different hands. He was not, however, satished with produc-
ing the first trustworthy edition of this work, but later on published,
2 N. P. CHAKRAVARTI

in two yplumes, a translation of the whole work in addition to a very
critical etudy of the chronology of the rulers of Kashmir and detailed
notes on the text as well as the topography of the valley of Kashmir,
in the study of which the marginal notes in his manuscript as well as
his repeated visits to Kashmir in the course of several years were a
very valuable help.

While at Lahore, in January 1898, Stein undertook an archaeological
tour with the Buner Field Forces under the command of General
Blood and explored the archaeological sites in the Buner area which
formed a part of the ancient country of Udyana. During one of his
visits to Kashmir, Stein also catalogued 5000 Sanskrit manuscripts in
the Raghunatha temple library at Jammu. In 1899, he joined the
Indian Educational Service and went to Calcutta as the Principal of
the Calcutta Madrasa. Soon after his appointment to Government
service, he proceeded in 190] on a yéar’s journey in connection with
his first long exploration tour in Chinese Turkestan on which part of
Central Asia the eyes of all the archaeological students of the world
were focussed at the time. The discovery of a very important birch-
bark manuscript in the neighbourhood of Kucha, which came into the
possession of Col. Bower when he was in Kucha, and which subse-
quently found its way to India, had already created a sensation among
the Indologists, as this happened to be the earliest manuscript (4th
century A.D.) written in an Indian script and language discovered up
to that time. The earliest manuscript known before this discovery
formed the isolated palm-leaves, which found their way to Japan
through China and are now preserved in the Horiuji monastery in
Japan. Besides this, there was a discovery in Khotan of another
birch-bark manuscript written in Kharosthi characters and Indian
languages, which was discovered by a French Mission sent to Tibet
in 1892 under the leadership of Dutreuil de Rhins. Stein’s exploration
on this occasion was confined to the southern portion of Chinese
Turkestan, mostly in the province of Khotan and the results of this
expedition were incorporated in his two volumes of Ancient Khoian
published at Oxford in 1907. He discovered here among other objects
of antiquarian interest, hundreds of documents in Indian, Chinese
and Tibetan ecripts and languages which have thrown quite a new light
on the civilization, prominently Indian, which flourished in ancient
Turkestan from the third or fourth century to the 9th century of the
Christian era. The International Archaeological Congress held in 1902
at Paris recognised the importance of Stein's expedition and this led to
the foundation of a series of subsequent exploration by German,
Russian and French Scholars. In 1901-02 Stein was awarded the Back
SIR M. A. STEIN 3.

grant by the Royal Geographical Society for his geographical explora-
tion in the Eastern portion of Lob-nor and the Kuen-luen range.. In
1902 he was appointed Inspector of Schools in the Panjab and was
deputed to England for the purpose of studying the scientific results
of the journey undertaken on behalf of the Geographical Society
and a personal narrative of this journey appeared in 1903. On
his return to India in 1904, he was appointed the Inspector General
of Education and Archaeological Surveyor for N. W. F. P. and
Baluchistan. While hoiding this post Stein explored many historical
and important sites located in inaccessible places across the Frontier
including the most interesting site of Mahaban.

In 1906 Sir Aurel undertook, under the orders of the Government
of India, his second Central Asian expedition. On this occasion he
went further to the East, to Khotan, and from there right up to the
Northern extremity across the Taklamakan desert. During this
expedition he particularly studied the topography of the ancient routes
between India and Western Asia and the Far East. The most
important discovery of this exploration was made by Stein in the
district of Tun-huang. Here he found the western portion of the
famous Chinese wall which was built in ancient times as a defence
against the invasion of the Huns. But the most astounding discovery
made by him was a series of artificial caves containing about 500
cells of various dimensions, which are popularly known to-day as
the caves of the Thousand Buddhas. One of these caves which was
found walled up, was opened by chance in 1900. There was found
a big collection of manuscripts and hundreds of fine paintings on
silk which had been hidden away in the eleventh century together
with other relics and kept safe from the hands of enemies till chance
discovery brought them to light once again. The manuscripts were
examined and collected partly by Sir Aurel Stein and partly by M.
Pelliot, the French Sinologist, who visited Turkestan in 1906-8, the
rest being taken to Peking under orders of the Chinese Government.
Results of this exploration have been embodied by Sir Aurel in the
five magnificent volumes of Serindia published in 1921.

In order to undertake more detailed explorations of the sites
already casually visited or altogether left out during his expedition of
1906, and also with a view to extend his explorations further to
the East and North, Sir Aurel undertook a third expedition to Central
Asia in the summer of 1913. On this occasion he started from the
south and proceeded eastward as far as Kan-chou, visiting on his
way the sites of antiquarian interest in the neighbourhood of Khotan,
Niya and Tun-huang. He then crossed the desert of Pei Shan from
4 N. P. CHAKRAVARTI

south-ea to north-west, and on his way to Kashgar examined the
sites of Idikut Shahri, the ancient capital of Turfan in the 7th and 8th
centuries A. D., and also Lou-lan, Kucha, Akshu, among other
similar sites, which were already visited but not carefully examined
by German scholars, In July 1915 his journey Ied him across the
Russian Pamirs and the mountains to the north of the Oxus and on
his return journey to India he visited Samarkand, Khorasan and a
portion of Seistan, the ancient Sakasthana or the land of the Sakas.
In this last-mentioned place he discovered on a rocky hill, the remains
of a large Buddhist sanctuary, the first of its kind traced in Iranian
soil. Here, behind later masonry, he found fresco-paintings of a
later period and also some wall paintings in Hellenistic style.
The details of. this expedition have already appeared in the
four volumes of Innermost Asia published in 1928 which is the
last monumental work of Sir Aurel on his Central Asian expeditions,
Before Sir Aurel undertook his third Central Asian tour, his services
were transferred to the Archaeological Survey in 1910. After
joining the Archaeological Department till his retirement in 1929, he
was actively connected with various expeditions which he undertook
on behalf of the Department not only in Central Asia and Persia as
mentioned above, but also in other countries in the neighbourhood
of India, which were at one time or the other the seat of Indian
culture. But his zeal for exploration did not cease with his retire-
ment. Onthe other hand, he spent all his spare time in visiting
some part of the country or other and on many occasions at his own
expense. Between the years 192628 when he was still in the
Department, he had undertaken exploration tours in Upper Swat,
Baluchistan and Makran, and later on in 1932-33 in South Persia
and in 1935-36 in Western Iran. In response to his valuable services
in exploration, honours were showered on him by various learned
societies in Europe. He was awarded the gold medal of the Royal
Geographical Society in 1909 and also the Petrie Medal in 1928. He
was the recipient of the Royal Asiatic Society's Gold Medal in
1932, Huxley Medal in 1934 and the Gold Medal of the Society of
Antiquaries in 1935. In 1910 the British Government conferred the
title of C. 1. E. on him and two years later he was made a KK. C. I, E.
Even during the last few years of his life Sir Aurel was as actively
engaged in exploration tours as he was during his early years. A
few years ago he had another journey from the coast of the Arabian
Sea up to the hill ranges of the north-east’ extremity of Makran. In
1941 and 1942 when he was in his eightieth year, he carried out an
exploration tour along the dry bed of the Ghaggar or Hakra, the
SIR M. A. STEIN 5,

ancient river Sarasvati of the Vedic texts, in the deserts of Bikaner
and Bahawalpur States... In course of this tour he traversed a distance
of nearly 300 miles and discovered a large number of new sites dating
from the chalcolithic to the Kushan period. From careful topo-
graphical observations Sir Aurel was able to trace another dry bed of
a river, which was once a branch of the Sutlej which joined the bed
of Hakra a little above the Fort Abbas near the border of Bahawalpur
State. As traces of chalcolithic sites were found only below this
junction, Sir Aurel was of opinion that the- prehistoric occupation
had been abandoned when this branch of the Sutlej which carried
abundant water from the great snow-fed river to the Ghaggar had
ceased to flow towards the close of the chalcolithic period. These
researches have a direct bearing also on the problem of desiccation
in Asia which has its wider interest for students of both history and
geography. In addition to this important exploration, Sir Aurel
undertook several shorter ones in the Gilgit area where he found
a number of Buddhist sites containing inscriptions and figures of
Buddhas and Bodhisattvas carved on rocks and also several important
inscriptions which for the first time showed that this part was under
a branch of the ancient Shahi rulers of Kabul. All his researches
in this connection were to be published in the Memoirs of the
Archaeological Survey of India and though he had submitted part of
his manuscripts for publication, its printing had to be stopped as a
measure of paper economy and he could not live to see these volumes
through the press. It is hoped that the Archaeological Department
will be ina position to issue them as soon as conditions become
more favourable. He did not also live to see another of his monu-
mental works—his portfolio on the mural paintings in the Central
Asian Antiquities Museum which is already in an advanced stage of
printing. From the time when Sir Aurel was a comparatively young
man it was his ambition to do some sound Archaeological work in
Afghanistan. This chance at last came to him, but fate decided
otherwise. Inaletter to Mr. C. E. A. W. Oldham which he wrote
from Srinagar and an extract from which has recently been published
in the Geographical Journal, Sir Aurel wrote: ‘‘I am just about to
start for a preliminary visit to Kabul, in the hope of securing the
chance desired since my boyhood for work in Ariana Antiqua.
Approval from New Delhi has been received for this fresh attempt,
initiated by a Harvard friend, now U.S. minister at Kabul. How it
will succeed the gods of Kapisa might know.’ But alas the gods of
Kapisa desired otherwise! They apparently did not want to part
with a scholar whose ambition was to visit them for years, once he
6 . N. P. CHAKRAVARTI

was in their territory. On the 26th of October 1943 he passed away
peacefulf$ in the house of Mr. Cornelius van H. Engert and was buried
in the Christian Cemetery at Kabul on October 29.

Sir Aurel Stein could talk Persian, Pushto, Kashmiri and Sanskrit
with equal fluency and made friends wherever he went, be it in the
biggest society of the civilized world or among the half civilized natives
of Central Asia or the frontier of India. With him passes a man
who adopted archaeology as a vocation and not a profession and
his life was so full of it that he preferred to remain a bachelor all
his life. Nor did he, in his death, forsake his favourite archaeology
for he left all that he possessed in the furtherance of its cause.

A List of Principal Publications of Sir Marc Aurel Stein

1. Kalhana's Rajatarangini—Translated with an Introduction, Com-
mentary and Appendices. Vols. I-11. 1900.

2. Preliminary Report on a Journey of Archaeological and Topo-
graphical Exploration in Chinese Turkestan, London, 1901.

3. Sand-Buried Ruins of Khotan—Personal narrative of a Journey
of archaeological and geographical exploration in Chinese
Turkestan, 1903,

4. Ancient Khotan—Detailed Report of Archaeological Explorations

. in Chinese Turkestan, Vols. |—11 Oxford, 1907.

5. Ruins of Desert Cathay—Personal narrative of explorations in
Central Asia and Westernmost China. With illustrations etc.
Vols. | & 11, London, 1912.

6. Third Journey of Exploration in Central Asia, 1913-16.: 1917.

7. Serindia, being a detailed Report of Explorations in Central Asia

. and Westernmost China, carried out and described under the
orders of H.M.’s Indian Government. 5 volumes, Oxford 1921.

8. The Thousand Buddhas, being a description of ancient Buddhist
Paintings from the Cave temples of Tun-Huang on the Western
Frontier of China, with an introductory essay by Laurence
Binyon. 2 vols. Text and Plates. 1921.

9. Memoiron maps of Chinese Turkestan and Kansu, from the
surveys made during Sir Aurel Stein’s explorations 1900-1901,
1906-1908, 1913-15, with appendices by Major K. Mason and
Dr. J. De Graff Hunter. Vols. I and JI. Text and Maps.
Dehra Dun. 1923.

10. Innermost Asia—Detailed Report of Explorations in Central Asia,
Kansu and Eastern fran. Vols. I-IV. Oxford, 1928.

V4. Archaeological Tour in Waziristan and Northern Baluchistan.
1929 (Memoirs, A.S.1. No. 37).
12.
13.
14,
15.
16.

17.

20..
21.
22.
23,
24,
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.

30.

31,

SIR M. A. STEIN - 4.

An Archaeological Tour in Upper Swat and Adjacent Hill
Tracts. 1930 (Memoirs, A.S.}. No. 42).

An Archaeological Tour in Gedrosia. 1931 (Memoirs, A.S.I,
No. 43).

Old Routes of Western Iran, (Macmillan & Co., Ltd., 1940).

Zur Geschichte der Gahis von Kabul, Stuttgart, 1893.

Detailed Report on an Archaeological Tour with the Buner Field
Force, 1898. (Ind. Ant., Vol. XXVIII).

Notes on New Inscriptions discovered by Major Deane (Reprint
from the Journal of the Asiatic Society of Bengal, Vol. LXVII,
Pt. I, No. 1, 1898),

Report of the Archaeological Survey work in the North-West
Frontier Province and Baluchistan for the period from January
2nd 1904 to March 3! st 1905. 1905 & 1911-12.

Mountain Panoramas from the Pamirs and Kwen Lun, London,
1908.

Explorations in Central Asia 1906-8 (Reprint from Geographical
Journal for July and September 1909),

Expedition in Central Asia, 1915 (Reprint from the Geographical
Journal, October 1915).

Desert crossing of Heuan-Tsang 630 A.D. 1919 (Reprint from
Geographical Journal for November 1919; also Ind. Ant., Vol. 4).

Marco Polo’s Account of a Mongol inroad into Kashmir, 1919.
(Reprint from the Geographical Journal for Aug. 1919).

Explorations in the Lop Desert. (Reprint from the Geographical
Journal for Jan. 1920).

Hatim’s Tales—Kashmiri stories and songs recorded with the
assistance of Pandit Govind Kaul by Sir Aurel Stein. 1923.
Innermost Asia—lts Geography as a Factor in History (Reprint

from the Geographical Journal for May and June 19235).

Alexander’s Campaign on the Indian North-West Frontier
(Reprint from Geographical Journal for Nov. and December
1927).

On Alexander's Track to the Indus—Personal Narrative of Ex-
plorations on the North- West Frontier of India. 1929.

On Ancient Central Asian tracks, London, 1933.

A Survey. of Ancient sites along the ‘‘lost’’ Sarasvati River
(Reprint from the Geographical Journal, Vol. XCIX, No. 4,
April 1942).

On Alexander's route into Gedrosia : An Archaeological tout
in Las Bela (Reprint from the Geographical Journal, Vol. Cll,
Nos. 5,6, Nov.-Dec. 1943).
32.
33.
34,
35.
36.
37.

38,

39,

40.

4).
42.

43.
44,

45.
46.

47.

48,

N. P. CHAKRAVARTI

Old,goutes of Western Iran. Narrative of an Archaeological
journey carried out and recorded, antiquities examined,
described and illustrated with the assistance of Fred. H.
Andrews, London, 1940.

An archaeological tour in Ancient Persia ( Reprint from Iraq,
Vol. III, No. 2).

Notes on Alexander’s crossing of the Tigris and the Battle of
Arbela (Reprint from the Geographical Journal, Vol. C, No. 4
Oct. 1942).

Surveys on the Roman Frontier in Iraq and Trans-Jordan
(Reprint from the Geographical Journal, Vol. XCV, No. 6
June 1940).

Note on Remains of the Roman lines in North-Western Iraq
(Reprint from the Geographical Journal, Vol. XCIL, No. |
July 1938). ,

The Ancient Trade routes past Hatra and its Roman posts
(Reprint from the Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society, Oct.
1941).

Zoroastrian Deities on Indo-Sythian coins (Reprint from the

Oriental and Babylonian Record, August 1887. London 1887).

‘Zoroastrian Deities on Indo-Sythian coins (Reprint from the

' Indian Antiquary, Vol. XVII, pt. CCVII with plates. Bombay
1888).

An Archaeological Journey in Western Iran (Reprint from the
Geographical Journal, Vol. XCII, No. 4, Oct. 1938).

Archaeological reconnaissances in North-Western India and
South-Eastern Iran with illustrations, plates of antiques, plans
and maps from original surveys, London, 1937,

Collection of Tibetan Documents from Chinese Turkestan. Notes
by A. H. Francke (Reprint from the Journal of the Royal
Asiatic Society of Great Britain and Ireland for Jan. 1914).

Memoir of Maps illustrating the Ancient Geography of Kashmir.
(Journal of the Asiatic Society of Bengal, Extra No. 2 for 1899.)

On Ancient tracks past the Pamirs (Reprint from the Himalayan
Journal, Vol. IV, 1932).

Kashmiri-English Dictionary, 2 Vols.

Notes on the life and Labours of Captain Anthony Troyer

. (Reprint from the Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society, Bengal,
Letters, Vol. VI, No. I, 1940).

In memoriam-Pandit Kaul (Reprint from the preface to Hatim’s

~ * Tales—Kashmir Stories and Songs, London, 1923).

The Castle of Lohara (Indian Antiquary, Vol. XXVI).
49.
30.

31.

52.
53.
54.
55.
56.
57.
58.
59.
60.

6l.
62.

63.
64.
65.

67.

‘THE COLOPHON OF THE JATAKA-STAVA y

Preliminary Note on an Archaeological Tour on the Indus,
(Indian Antiquary, Vol. XXX).

Notes on an Archaeological Tour in South Bihar and Hazaribagh.
Indian Antiquary, Vol, XXX (1901).

Archaeological Notes during Explorations in Central Asia in
1906-08. (with preface by Editor) Indian Antiquary, Vols.
XXXVI and XXXIX.

A Third Journey of Exploration in Central mie 1913-16 Indian
Antiquary, Vol. XLVI.

Excavations at Sahri Bahlol—Annual Report, Archaeological
Survey of India, 1911-12

Exploration of the Mahaban range lbid 1904-05
Identification of Parihadsapura. > 1915.16
A Note on Avantipura ” 1913-14
A Note on Aornos Rock. ” 1904-05

and 1924-25
A Note on Baijnath Temple. - 1905-06
A Note on Kashmir monuments. » 1915-16
A Note on Mount Banj. » 1904-05
A Note on Rajagriha. ” 4905-06

For Reports as Officer on Special Duty in the Archaeological
Department see Annual Reports, Archacological Survey of
India 1921-28.

Notes on Inscriptions from Udyana presented by Major Deané.
J. R.A. S., 1898.

Sanskrit Deed of Sale concerning a Kashmirian Mahabharata Ms.,
J. R.A. S., 1900.

Notes on a Journey from Hunza, J. R. A. S. 1901.

On Colonel Deane’s Inscribed Stones from Swat. J. R. A. S. 1903.

Early Judaeo-Persian Document from Khotan, J. R. A. S., 1903.
The Colopbon of the Jataka-stava
By H. W. Battey ;

We are indebted to Sir M. Aurel Stein for so manp discoveries
concerning the history of Chinese Turkestan and I have myself been
so fortunate in working at the Khotanese manuscripts of his collec-
tion that I am pleased indeed to offer a small tribute to his memory
and can only regret that the present time has divorced me from my
books and hence reduced the offering to so little.

Among the many manuscripts that we owe to Sir Aurel Stein is
one containing the text of the Khotanese Jataka-stava. A facsimile
of this manuscript has been published in Codices Khotanenses (Co-
penhagen, 1938). The introductory -verses dedicate the poem to
the Khotanese king Sri Visa Sara. The following note refers only
to the colophon which is found on folio 39 written in cursive
Brahmi script. This reads as follows :—
ttii Jattaka-stava biysiifiam daskara kiram hivi aga
ca kim&Sana pasta pidai biysiéta brriyi
ttye ptifid kigala-mila parrjsai jsa cakavattai éai tciind aniscya

ras4 gavu ga-vasgisa hamava upatta-vagesa sthand-viéaisa

haiysdi vira jsa visdrd rags rada bviysye jsifid prriyaga
hamavi: maiscyi anescyana’ bvaiysa jsina hamavi kalpa
jsa hajsaide karma biédi jadi biga pirmattama tta baiysusti
paridi vyechai

tt<ii>stim pid pad& Sana pyari puhya ca pina jea habrriha
gavi vasasidi: mira himam bveysa-jsina hamava.

tt<i>s<tam>pifia pyara’ hiye paysavye brravira ca ttaiha
tcaina khariga jsa habrrihu u para dvara jsa

ttu stam pifia naira kima-hva jsa habrrihii u dvira riipajiva jsa:
dvira jvalakya jsa brravara ttrravilai sidyavarrda jsa ttrravi-
lai darmajiia jsa

harbigam aégirya gathd vajrrayaunyam jsa bisd satva biysistasta
vyarna byehida

aysa tta ca [ca] kimasani byehime thyau  madrram_ sijasta
baiysiigta vyichime Kymsan

paysavye hvarakya sirai maitrra jsa

Translation

“This Jataka-stava is a book (anga) of the difficult feats of the
Buddha. Tsang Kim-éan ordered to write (or: condescended to write)
THE COLOPHON OF THE JATAKA-STAVA 11

°

for love of Bodhi. In reliance upon the merit of this favourable root,
may the Emperor Sing-tsun possess the position of endless lordship
and a peculiar position, a peculiar rebirth and a peculiar station. At
the present time may the king of the Vajra kingdom enjoy long life.
May he be mighty, endless and long-lived. May all the deeds
accumulated through the age disappear. May he condescend to
attain the supreme Bodhi.

This same merit | share with......... my father... Tsang Pin. May
his states of life be purified. May my mother Himam be long-lived.

This. same merit | share with my father’s own brother Tsang
Tig-tsin and with sons and daughters.

This same merit I share with my wife Kim-hva, with my daughter
Ripajiva, with my daughter Jvalakya, with my brother the knower
of three Pitakas Sidhyavardhana, with my brother the knower of the
three Pitakas Dharmajfiana, with all teachers and householders of the
Vajrayana. May all beings attain to Bodhi according to prophecy.

May J, therefore, Tsang Kim-gan, attain swiftly to the learning
of the formulee (mantra). May | realise Bodhi. Kim-san.

With my own sister Sirai-maitra.”’

A few brief notes will justify this translation. The name
of the owner of the manuscript Ca Kimaéana, that is, Tsang Kim-
San, iells us that we are concerned with a member of the distinguish-
ed Tsang family which during most; of the T’ang period supplied
hereditary governors to the region of Sa-tsou. The full name is pre-
served in a Chinese Text (Stein MS, Ch. 1.0021a) ‘as 38 @& |) Tsang
Kin-san (older Viang ki®m-san, Karlgren, Analytic Dictionary, 1174,
386, 849), from which we learn also that he was the ambassador
of Yu-tien (Khotan). His name appears in the last line of the colo-
phon, most unexpectedly, in Sogdian script as Kymsan, and can be
seen again in Sogdian script on the end of folio 156 of the Siddha-
sara (facsimile in Codices Khotanenses). The same name has also
been noticed elsewhere in Khotanese manuscripts. His relationship
to the present colophon is expressed by the ambiguous phrase pasta
pidai: the verb parrud- means either ‘to order’ or ‘to condescend."

The merit of writing the Jataka-stava is then shared with the
king, his own family and the teachers and laity of the Buddhist
Vajrayana sect. The king, who is styled Cakravarti or emperor, is
given a Chinese ¢pithet sai tciind which probably corresponds to
the Chinese Buddhist Hf & 3®ng-tsun ‘sacred and revered’ (from
older gidng-tsu9n, Karlgren, loc. cit. 1205, 1112). This epithet is
used elsewhere (see BSOAS. 9. 541) of the Khotanese king Viéa
Darma. The names of his family come next. Ca is Tsang. The
12 H. W. BAILEY

mother# name Hiimam has not been identified. ° The uncle’s name
Khariiga ocouts in other Khotanese texts, as in the Staél-Holstein
roll 40, 47 (where the editor read wrongly di,du for ra). The ‘wife's
name Kim-hva is clearly Chinese Kin-xua ‘golden Flower’ (from
older ki®m-x"a, Karlgren, loc. cit. 386,94). The daughter’s name
Ripajiva is Indian and is evidently used here in no pejorative sense.
The second daughter's name Jvalakya ‘Brilliant’ is also Indian, but
the suffix-kya is likely to. be Khotanese. The two brothers have
Indian names and both are Tripitakas (ttravilai from a middle Indian
*trividaa-). The acaryas and grhasthas belong to the Vajrayana
(vajrayanika-), which is familiar also in other Khotanese texts. The
sister Siraimaitra was evidently overlooked and her name inserted
later. . ”
The term Agisala in two Kharosthi Inscriptions

By T. Burrow

In the ruins of Shah-ji-ki-Dheri, which have been identified as. the
remains of the stipa and vihdra of Kanishka, a metal relic casket
bearing a Kharosthi inscription was unearthed during excavations in~
the year 1909. The inscription was edited with photographs by
Spooner’ and Marshall’, and appears as no. lxxii in Sten Konow’s
edition of the Kharosthi Inscriptions.’ In this inscription there occurs
a word agigala which was interpreted by the original editors asa
rendering in Kharosthi letters of the Greek proper name Agesilaus. In
this Konow follows them without any question, as also do general
writers on Indian history’, as a result of which ‘Agesilaos’ has become
established as a minor historical igure. Nevertheless in spite of this
practical unanimity, the grounds for finding the Greek name Agesilaos
in this inscription are the slenderest possible, and the reasons for not
accepting the theory are so strong that a serious examination of the
facts leads with practical certainty to its rejection. It is the purpose
of this short article to state briefly the arguments against the current
theory, with the hope that ‘Agesilaos’ may finally be disposed of. .

There are two conditions essential if we are going to read a Greek
name in an Indian inscription; firstly that it should be rendered with
reasonable accuracy in the Indian alphabet, and secondly that there
should not be some more obvious Indian interpretation at hand. There
are cases where these conditions are fulfilled. Well-known examples
to which reference can be made are Heliudora of the Besnagar pillar
inscription® and Theudora of the Swat relic vase inscription.” In
the latter case there is further confirmation in the fact that Theudora
has the Greek title Meridarch. Quite different is the case with
agigala. This is not the way one would expect the name Agesilaos

1 AS/AR., 1909—10, pp. 135 ff. 2 JRAS., 1909, pp. 105b ff.

3 CI, vol. TI, pt. i, pp. 135ff.

4 V.A. Smith, Karly History of India, p. 277, referring to “the celebrated
relic casket bearing an image and inscription of Kanishka, whose superin-
tending engineer had the Greek name of Agesilaos’’?; L. de la Vallée Poussin,
IInde aux Temps des Mauryag et des Barbares, p. 258, W. W. Tarn, The
Greeks in Bactria and India, pp. 355, 392.

5 Marshall, JRAS., 1909, pp. 1053ff. 6 Konow, CH., UW, i Uf.
14 T. BURROW

to be represented. In the first place the -g-, as Konow observes, is
‘devoid of the usual otiose r- stroke’? This ‘r- stroke’ is indicative of
a fricative pronunciation of single intervocalic g and in such cases
the transliteration -g- is more convenient than Konow’s -g(r)-. Its
absence quite certainly indicates -gg- which was not of course fri-
catised, and for that reason it is possible to distinguish original -g-
from -gg- in Kharosthi inscriptions, even though the alphabet does
not write double consonants. This being the case there is no force
in Konow’s suggestion® that this way of writing indicates a foreign
name, Single g of whatever origin was pronounced as a fricative and
as such represented in writing; in the Kharosthi documente from
Central Asia there are foreign names in plenty, but we always
find in such cases single intervocalic g rendered as fricative (-y-).
Another objection is the following consonant—the palatal -s-. If the
Greek name Agesilaos were being represented, there is no reason
why the dental -s- corresponding to the Greek should not have been
used. Finally the vowels do not correspond very well. It would
have been just as easy in Kharosthi to write agesil-, as agigal-, if
it had been a question of rendering that name.

Turning to the second point, we find even stronger reasons for
disbelieving that agisala is a rendering of a Greek name. In his edition
of the text® Marshall remarks: ‘‘The name Agiéala is certainly
non-Indian"’. Foucher’ is not quite so certain. According to him
agigala could represent Skt. AgnigGla- which he renders ‘one who
possesses a temple of fire’. This however he regards as a corrup-
tion due to popular etymology of the original Greek name. He
then proceeds to defend the theory with a completely illogical
argument. “‘Pour nous refuser 4 admettre une interpretation aussi
simple, il foudrait rejeter en bloc non seulement toutes les transcrip-
tions indiennes de mots grecs que nous donnent les textes classiques
et le légendes des monnaies, mais encore |’ Heliodore, fils de
Diya (Dion), de "inscription de Besnagar et le Thaidora (Théodore)
fils de Datis de celle de Koldarra’’. It does not of course follow, if
the explanation of agigala by ‘Agesilaos’ isto be rejected, that all
other Greek names in Indian sources are also to be rejected.

In speaking of Agnigala Foucher practically gives the game away,
except that he still wants to see in the word a proper name. Such
a name is unlikely and the most natural interpretation of agiégala

7 Op. cit, p. 187. 8 Ib., p. 435.

9 JRAS., 1909, p. 1058.

10 L’Art Greco-bouddhique du Gandhdra, M1, p. 532.
THE TERM AGISALA IN TWO KHAROSTHI INSCRIPTIONS 16.

appearing in a Kharosthi document is that it corresponds to Skt.
agnisala, Pa. aggisala ‘a hall of fire’. Bearing in mind the fact that
-g- {instead of -g-, -g(r-) ) represents -gg-, such a conclusion is difh-
cult to avoid, and it is difficult to see what else the original users
of Kharosthi could have made of it. The agigala has of course
nothing to do with a ‘fire-temple’ as Foucher seems to .think, but
was a recognised part of a Buddhist monastery. In the Pali texts
aggisala which the Pali Text Society’s Dictionary renders ‘a heated
hall or refectory’ is mentioned as such an established institution in
the Vinaya-pitaka"’ and other works.

That being the case, it is not surprising to find mention of it in the
Kharosthi inscriptions which are of predominantly Buddhist content.
As it happens, another Kharosthi inscription has recently turned up
in which the same word is found. This is on a stone lamp found
by Barger and Wright during their journey of exploration in the Swat
Valley in 1938, and now preserved in the Victoria and Albert Museum,
London. Inthe publication dealing with the finds of this expedi-
tion’’, this inscription is listed and a tentative transcription given :—

Sagami caudisami [ga?da?] agigala [e go? so?]

Although not completely legible, the purport of this inscription is
quite clear. It is a statement that the lamp belongs to the community
of Buddhist monks (‘‘the Samgha of the Four Quarters’’) and further
specifies that it is kept in the fire-hall of the monastery (agifalae Loc.,
S.), In view of the obviousness of this interpretation, it is unlikely that
anyone will want to read the name ‘Agesilaos’ into this text, and
it would be quite arbitrary and inconsitent to understand agigala as
representing Skt. agnigald in one text, and in the other text a foreign
name.

.The interpretation of agigala given here necessitates a re-eXxamina-
tion of the passage in the Kaniska casket inscription in which it
occurs. This passage occurs at the base of the casket and runs as
follows :

dasa agisala navakarmi kaneskasa vihare Mahasenasa samgharame

It seems that through haplography navakarmi Kaneskasa has been
written for navakarmi <ka> Kaneskasa. Under the assumption that
agifala meant ‘Agesilaos’ this has been translated : ‘‘The slave
Agesilaos, the Superintendent of works at the vihara of Kaniska
in the monastery of Mahasena’’. Since, however, for the reasons

11 Vinaya-Pitaka, TI, 154, 210 ete.
12 Excavations in Swat and Erplorations in the Orus territories of Afgha-
nmstan, p. 60 (MAS. no. 64))
16 T. BURROW

ry

given abovg, there is no adequate basis for the rendering ‘Agesilaos’,
a different translation miust be given. Interpreting agigala as Skt.
agnigala, we can construe without difficulty the phrase agisala nava-
karmi <ka>, since a reference to the repairing or rebuilding of an
agnigald is one that we might expect to come across in a Kharosthi
inscription dealing with a Buddhist monastery. This interpretation
leaves the sentence without a proper name, and there is no compelling
to believe that it should have contained one, especially if we inter-
pret dasa at the beginning of the sentence not as a singular, but
as aplural. This we almost certainly should do, since the regular
form of the nominative singular in these inscriptions is either -o
or-e Sucha form of the nominative singular is found in this
inscription in deyadharme of the preceding line. That being the
case, the whole sentence should be translated: “The slaves who
rebuilt the agnigala in the vihdra of:Kaniska, in the monastery
of Mahasena.’’

A final note is necessary on the word navakarmika. This means
properly ‘renewer, repairer, rebuilder’, and not merely ‘architect’
in general. This has an important bearing on the date of the casket,
since a reference to the rebuilding of a portion of Kaniska’s vihara
suggests that it had been in existence for some time——long enough
in fact for parts of it to have fallen into disrepair. If this is the
case, the casket may well be dated something like a hundred years
after Kaniska, and not, as is generally assumed, be contemporaneous

with his reign.
Negapatam and Theravada Buddhism in South India
By Dr. S. PARANAVITANA

The two Leiden grants’ of the Cola Emperors Rajaraja | and Kulot-
tunga I respectively, are well-known to students of Indian history
and antiquities. From these two documents we learn that, in the
eleventh century, Buddhism still had its adherents at the port of Nega-
patam on the south-eastern sea-board of India, and that the followers
of this faith in Further India took an interest in building shrines at
that place and making endowments for their maintenance. The re-
mains of the Cidamanivarma-vihara of Negapatam, built by the
Sailendra king of Kataha and Srivigaya, as recorded in the larger
Leiden grant, were preserved as late as 1867 and might be still stand-
ing, had their historical significance been appreciated then as it would
be now.? A large number of Buddhist bronzes, many of them ins-
cribed, were discovered at Negapatam some years ago, indicating the
existence of a considerable Buddhist population at this place at the
date to which these bronzes can be ascribed, i.e. about the [Ith or
12th century. Tamil literature has also preserved evidence of the con-
nection of Buddhists with Negapatam. Mr K. V. Subrahmanya
Aiyar, the learned editor of the Leiden plates, states:” ‘In the tradi-
tional account of Tirumangani-Alvar, who is described in the Guru-
paramparG as a feudatory of the Cola king of his day, it is stated
that he once went to Nagapattanam, got inside the Buddhist temple
at the place, carried away the gold image that was enshrined within
it and melting the same, utilised the amount in building walls and
other structures in the Rantganatha temple at Srirangam. If there is
any truth in this, it would show that long prior to the construction of
Cadamanivarma-vihara, i.e. before the beginning of the 9th century,
Negapatam was renowned as a Buddhist centre and had in it a
Bauddha monument. We do not know if the vihara that was erected
in the days of Rajaraja | was a new one or was only the renewal of
the old monument.”

The Pali literature of Ceylon has preserved some references to
Negapatam which prove that the connection of Buddhism with that

1 Edited by K. V. Subrahmanya Aiyar in Epigraphia Indica, Vol. XXTH,
pp. 213-281.

2 For the circumstances in which these Buddhist remains were demolished,
see Indian Antiquary, Vol. VII, p. 224.

3 Ep. Ind, Vol. XXIT, pp. 230-81.

3
18 S. PARANAVITANA

-

port goé# back to a very early date and that the place remained a
centre of Buddhist activities when that religion had ceased to count
adherents in many other parts of the Tamil land where it was once
flourishing. These references, which, so far as my knowledge goes,
have not received the attention of students of Indian history, may be
of some interest to readers of this Journal.

The Saddhamma-sangaha, in its account of the life and activities
of Buddhaghosa, the greatest of Pali commentators, states that it was
from Nagapattana that he took ship to come to the island of Ceylon
from India.* According to Ceylon tradition, Buddhaghosa was a native
of North India, and after his conversion to Buddhism, he was entrust-
ed by his teacher with the task of translating into Pali the exegetical
literature which then existed in the Sinhalese language. The account
of Buddhaghosa and his literary activities given in the Saddhamma-
sangaha agrees in the main with that of the Mahdvarmsa (Chap. 37,
vv. 215-246) but gives additional details. The author of the Saddham-
ma-sangaha, Dhammakitti, was a native of Siam, but he received his
ordination in Ceylon and studied in that island under Dhammakitti
Mahasami, who flourished in the middle of the fourteenth century.”
The statement recorded in the Saddhamma-sangaha may therefore
be taken as the tradition which was current in Ceylon during the
fourteenth century. The story of Buddhaghosa is full of improbabi-
lities, but the mention of Nagapattana as the port from which he took
ship to come to this island must have been at least due to the fact
that it was well-known to the Buddhists of Ceylon as a place from
where religious teachers from India started on their sea-voyage to
the island.

Negapatam is also connected with Dhammapala who, as a com-
mentator of Pali texts, occupies a place second only to that of the
great Buddhaghosa. In the colophons of his numerous works, it is
stated that Dhammapala was a resident of Badaratittha-vihara. The
Sdsanavamsa, which is a work produced in Burma not more than a

4 Hvam vutte dyasma Buddhaghosoppitisomanassappatio hutrd  wupajjha-
yam ca bhikku-samghat ca vanditwa Gpucchitvd  anugamanena Nagapattanam
sampapunt. Atha Sakko devaraja haritakiphaliati ca Wwkhanitt ca tassa datva
sakatthanam eva gato....Tato so nivam abhirihitea ete. Journal of the Pali
Tert Society for 1890, p. 53.

5 See Bulletin de PUcole Frangaise @ Extréme Orient, Vol. XV, pp. 39-
46 and my paper ‘Religious Tntercourse between Ceylon and Siam in the
13th-15th centuries’ in the Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society, Ceylon Branch,
Vol. XXXTI, pp. 204-205.
NEGAPATAM AND THERAVADA BUDDHISM 19

hundred years ago, states that this Badaratittha was in the Tamil
country not far from the island of Ceylon.° The passage stating that
Dhammapala resided at Badaratittha, occuring at the end of manus-
cripts of his works, may not be Dhammapala’s own but might have
been added by a later copyist. In the colophons to his works which
can, without doubt. be attributed to Dhammapala himself, there is
only one reference to any place he resided in, and that occurs at the
close of his commentary to the Nettippakarana. Therein he refers
to himself as ‘residing in the Dhammasoka-maharaja-vihara at Naga-
pattana, the place where the Good Law crossed over (saddhamma-
vataratthana).’

The date of the Pali commentator Dha.nmap§la is not definitely
known, but most Pali scholars are inclined to believe that he flouri-
shed not long after Buddhaghosa, that is to say, about the sixth cen-
tury. Rhys Davids’ identification of this Pali commentator with the
Dharmapala of Kafici, mentioned by Hieun Tsiang, is open to grave
doubts and he may have flourished at a date considerably Jater than
that to which he is ascribed by a consensus of opinion among Pali
scholars. However this may be, Dhammapdla’s connection with
Negapatam is beyond doubt. It is also interesting to note that the
vihadra at Negapatam wherein Dhammapila resided, was named after
the great Buddhist emperor Aégoka. The name was probably due to
the belief of the local Buddhists that Agoka himself was instrumental
in the introduction of Buddhism to the country round Negapatam.
It may even be that the faithful of the place ascribed the foundation
of this religious establishment to the great Buddhist emperor.®

The epithet saddhammdvataratthana applied to Negapatam is
highly significant. It was most probably due to the fact that Buddhist
missionaries who left the shores of India to propagate the faith abroad
took ship at this sea-port. The geographical position of Negapatam
must have made it take a great part in the commercial and cultural
intercourse which developed in ancient times between South India
and the countries of Further India and the Indonesian islands. The

6 Sisanevamsa, P.T.S. Edition, p. 33.
7 Saddhaumavattarutthine pattane Néga-savhaye
Dhammasoke-mahdrajasvthare vasata mayd.

The Nettippakarana with extracts from Dhanrmapila’s Commentary, cdited
by E. Hardy, P.T.S. London, 1902, p. 249.

8 Hieun Tsiang, in his account of South indian lands, mentions a number
of places which had sta@pus ascribed to Asoka, See Beal, Buddhist Records of
the Western World, Vol. 11, pp. 227, 230 and 231.
20 S. PARANAVITANA

barks which left this port laden with merchandise must have fre-
quently carried Buddhist teachers whose names are now forgotten,
but who doubtless played a great part in the diffusion of Indian cul-
ture and religion throughout the countries of Eastern Asia. The
statement in the Saddhammasangaha that Buddhaghosa started from
Negapatam on his journey to Ceylon thus becomes highly probable.”
It also would explain why the Buddhist rulers of Kataha took such
pains to erect and endow shrines at Negapatam. Possibly they
considered that the introduction of Buddhism into their country was
due to the activities of religious teachers who went there from Nega-
patam and the place was accordingly held in veneration.

The Pali literature of Ceylon throws some light on the subsequent
history of the Cudamani-varma-vihara built at Negapatam by the
Sailendra king. At the end of the Pali grammar Répasiddhi, its
author, Buddhappiya, has included: a stanza in which he gives us
information about himself. [nit Buddhappiya tells us that he was
also known as Dipankara, that his teacher was the famous Ananda-
thera, like unto a banner in Tambapanni (Ceylon), that he gained
renown as the light of the Tamil land and that he caused the religion
(of the Buddha) to shine fourth by being the superior of two monastic
establishments, one of which was called Baladicca (Skt. Baladitya).'®
The Sinhalese interverbal paraphrase of the Ripasiddhi, which
seems to have been written not long after the time of Buddhappiya—
it is quoted as an authority in a work of the 15th century—supplies
the name of the other monastery over which Buddhappiya presided.
In the printed edition of this text, as well as in the manuscripts, the

1 This is clearly a

name of this vihGra is given as Cadamanikarma.
scribal error, for “‘Cidmanikarma’’ is meaningless as the name of a
vihGra. As Buddhappiya’s connection with the Tamil country is

testified to by himself in the Rapasiddhi and as he is often given the

9 Hteun Fsiang and t-tsing scem to refer to Negapattauam as the place
of embarkat:on from South India to Ceylon, Sce Beal, Buddhist Records of the
Western World, Vol. 3, p. 288, n.

10) Vikhyatdnende-theravhaye-vara-garunamn  Tambappanniddhajduan — Sissoe
Mpamkerakhyo Danila-vasumati-dipa-laddhappakdsy Baladiccéd ivdsadvitayuin.
adhivasam sdsanam jotayai yo So'yam Buddhappiyavho yati imam-ujukam
Ripassiddhin akasi.

ll Baladitya nam vdsaya ddu-sabda yem gat Caddmanikarma (varma)-vihdraya
yanw me devadsaychi vesemin, The Ripasiddhi, with the Sinhalese paraphrase,
bas been edited and published in Sinhalese characters by Pandit Dehigaspe
Paiifiasara, Colombo, 1927.
NEGAPATAM AND THERAVADA BUDDHISM 21

| epithet of ‘Coliya’ in Ceylon writings, and asa Buddhist vihdra called
Cudamani-varma is known to have existed‘in the Cola country,
we can safely correct the form of this name occurring in manus-
cripts to Cudamani-varma-vihara. The word varma would not
have been known to the ordinary copyist in Ceylon, but the word
karma was well-known to him. The error can thus be accounted
for very easily. We may therefore conclude that the second of the
two monasteries of which Buddhappiya was the s.perior was the
same as that founded by Maravijayottungavarman, king of Kataha and
Srivigaya and endowed at the request of that foreign potentate by the
Cola emperor Rajaraja J, and later by Kulottunga— Cola Il. Neither
the Rdpasiddhi nor its Sinhalese gloss has any reference to Negapatam,
and we are therefore not in a position to say whether the other con-
vent, named Baladitya, was situated at that place. It was evidently
the more important of the two establishments, for Buddhappiya made
special mention of it while he left the identity of the other to be
explained by his exegetist. Like the Cidamanivarma Vibara and
Dhammasoka Vihara of Negapatam, Baladicca Vihara, too, appears
to have been named after an important personage. The most famous
Baladitya of Buddhist history was the king of Magadha who, accord-
ing to Hieun Tsiang, was the founder of the celebrated vihdra of
Nalanda but we cannot assert that a monastic establishment in the
Cola country was named after him.

The connection of Buddhappiya-thera with Negapatam seems
beyond doubt. This thera occupies a position of considerable impor-
tance in the history of Theravada Buddhism. Besides the Ripasiddhi,
he was also the author of a Pali poem called the Pajjamadhu.'* As
will be seen from what follows, he seems to have made a commend-
able effort to resuscitate the waning fortunes of Buddhism in South
India. It will therefore be of some interest for the history of Buddhism
in South India to ascertain the time during which this religious teacher
flourished. The consensus of opinion among scholars in Ceylon is
that Buddhappiya flourished in the thirteenth century during the
reign of Parakramabahu II.'° This date, however, seems to be too
late by about a century.

Attention may be drawn in this connection to a passage occurring
in the Vimativinodani,’* an exegetical work on the Vinaya written

12. Edited in the J.P.7.8. for 1887, pp. 1-16.

13° See Malalasekara, The Pali Literature of Ceylon, London, 1928, pp. 220ff.

14 Edited and published in Sinhalese characters by Somaloka Tissa Thera,
Laksman Press, Colombo, 1935.
22 S. PARANAVITANA

by another South Indian Buddhist writer, Kassapa by name. In
discussing the question’ whether it is an offence to drink intoxicating
liguor unwittingly, this author says: “In former times. a certain
thera named Nagasena who lived in this Tamil country and belonged
to a persuasion differing (from the Theravada), had the story of
Kundalakesi done into the form of a Tamil poem,’ for the purpose
of exhibiting the methods of refuting other doctrines. He instructed
the poet who composed the poem and had it composed inserting
in that composition various perverted views, confusing the mind with
fallacious arguments, such as (1) that this act of drinking intoxicat-
ing liquors is sinful only in the case of drinking the same _ intentionally
(2) that the knowledge of the Omniscient One is not capable of
perceiving in a particularised manner the knowledgable objects,
which are infinite by differences of time and space; if the knowledg-
able objects are limited by knowledge, it would lead to the absurdity
of disavowing the infiniteness of knowledgable objects, therefore
the Omniscient One is capable of knowing objects only in their
general character, such as their evanascence, (3) such conventions as
puggala (personality) etc., are separate entities like name and form,
etc., in the categories of ultimates. This heretical view was intro-
duced to the doctrines of Vibhajjavadins on account of that poem and
continued to remain so for a long time. It was eradicated at a later
period by the great thera Buddhappiya, who established the pure
religion here by tearing asunder the net of false views, both external
and internal. Nevertheless, certain persons of perverted mind again
raised their heads relying on the statement in the explanatory work
on the Vinaya, called the Sdratthadipani, that the drinking of liquor
is sinful only when it is intentional’’.”®

15 This Buddhist poem, like the Manimekalai, was included among the five
mahdkdvyas of the Tamil Janguage. [t is no longer extant and is known only
from quotations in other literary works.

16. Pubbe kira imasmim Damila-ratthe koct bhinnaladdhiko Nadgaseno nénu
thero Kundalakesivatthum  paravdda-mathanasnuyadussanattham  Damila-
kabba-rapena karento imam surapdnassa janitva va pivune akusala-nayam
anitam ca desakdladi-bhedena anantam’ pi ficyyam subbudiivutavidnum  salake
khena-vasewevu fdtum na sekkoti, Adnena paricchinnuttenu Reyyussa unan-
tutta-hanippasangate, wniccddi-sdmatiia-lakkhane-vasenevu Rdtwn sukkotv ti
ca paramattha-dhammesu nadma-ripaw ti Gdi-bhedo viyu pugyalddi-sammaut? pi
visum vatthusbhedo eviti cu evamddikam bahum viparitattha-nayam kubba-
kdrassa kavino upadisitva tusmim pabandhe kadranadbhaschi satim sammohetva

pabandhdpest,....Tam ca kabbap wisstys imam bhinna-luddhikam matam
NEGAPATAM AND THERAVADA BUDDHISM 230

It is clear from this reference that some timte before Buddhappiya’s
reform of the South Indian Theravada community, the question
whether it is a sin even if one tasted liquor unwittingly aroused
considerable discussion among its members. Those who maintained
that no sin is committed if there is no intention of drinking liquor
appealed to the Tamil poem Kundalakesi in support of their position.
Buddhappiya condemned this view as heretical but «fter some time
it was revived by an appeal to the authority of the Sdratthadipani.
The wording of the passage in the Vimativinodani suggests that the
decision on this point given in the Sdratthadipani is posterior to
Buddhappiya. Sdratthadipani is an extensive sub-commentary to the
Vinaya written by the learned thera named Sariputra who flourished in
Ceylon during the reign of Parakramabahu I (1153-1186). Buddhappiya
Thera may therefore be taken, on the authority of the Vimativinodani,
to have flourished before, or contemporaneously with, Sariputra.

It may however be argued that such an inference need not neces-
sarily be drawn from the reference in the Vimativinodani, quoted
above. The Sdrathadipani might already been written before the
time of Buddhappiya’s reform, but the South Indian Theravadins
who did not object to the taking of liquor unwittingly, might not
have known it at that time and became aware of the evidence
supporting their contention contained in that authority at some later
date.

Bui there is further evidence of a decisive nature which proves
that Buddhappiya flourished in the twelfth and not in the thirteenth
century. The Pali grammar Padasadhana refers to Buddhappiya’s
Riépasiddhi and criticises some of its views. '’ The Padasddhana is
based on the grammatical system of Moggallana who in the vutti
composed by himself to elucidate his own aphorisms, states that this
work was composed in the reign of Parakramabahu I. *® Moggallana
was also one of the leading members of the synod convened by Para-

idha  vibhajjavddiemate saminissam —ciram. pavatthittha. Tam pana pacchii
Aeariya Buddhappiye-mahatherena bahivabbhantarikan. ditthijalam vighdtetvd
wha parisuddham  sasanam — patitthapentena — sodhitam’ pi Saratthadipaniya
Vinayatikaya surapanassa sacittakapakkhe yeva cittam akusalum ti samatthana-
vacanam nissaya kehicit vipallattha-cittehi puna ukkhitta-siram jatam (Vimti=
vingdant, op, cit, pp. 100-101)

1% Padasédhana, with Sinhalese paraphrase, cdited by Dhammananda
Thera, Colombo 1932, p. 67.

18 James d’Aivis, A Descriptive Catalogue of Sanskrit, Pali and Sinhalese
Literary Works, Vol. I, p. 185.
24 $. PARANAVITANA

kramabahu for the purpose of purifying and uniting the Buddhist church
in Ceylon, early in his reign.’* To occupy such a position he must
have been a very senior thera at that time. The grammarian
Moggllana (Vyarini Mugalan) is referred to as a high dignitary of the
Church in the Tamil inscription which the Velaikkadras set up at
Polonnaruva some years before the accession of Parakramabahu.””

The author of the Padasadhana, by name Piyadassi, was a direct
pupil of Moggallana,”’ as stated by himself in the colophon to his
work. That.work, therefore, must have been composed within the
reign of Parakramabahu, or a few years after his death at the latest.
The Rapasiddhi, quoted and criticised in the Padasddhana, must be
earlier in date and its author Buddhappiya seems to have beena
younger contemporary of Moggallana.

Scholars who ascribe Buddhappiya to the thirteenth century do
so relying mainly on their identification of his teacher Ananda with
the thera of that name who was a pupil of Medhamkara of Udumbara-
giri, the hierarch who induced Parakramabahu II (1236-1269) to re-
organise the Buddhist Church in Ceylon.*” This Ananda Thera of the
thirteenth century was the author of a Sinhalese interverbal transla-
tion (sanne) to the Padasddhana in which, as we have noted above,
Buddhappiya is criticised. It is, therefore, impossible that he was
the teacher of Buddhappiya.

In this connection, an inscription of Sundaramahaddevi, queen of
Vikramabahu I (1116-1137), found at Polonnaruva,”* merits considera-
tion. The record is too fragmentary for us to decide what its purport
was, but it opens with a Pali stanza eulogising a thera named Ananda.
The inscription praises Ananda as a_ person of high spiritual attain-
ments, calls him a banner raised aloft in the land of Lanka and
informs us that he was instrumental in the establishment of the
Buddhist religion in the Cola country besides having had contacts
with the sangha of the Tambarattha.”*
his teacher calls him a ‘banner unto the island of Ceylon’ almost the

Buddhappiya, in referring to

19 Mahavamsa, Chap. 78 v. 9 and Epiqraphia Zeylanica, Vol, IT, p. 249.

bo
on]

Epigraphia Zeylanica, Vol. 11. p. 249 fF.

No
pars

Padastidhana, op. cit, pp. 801-302.
Malalasekara, The Pali Literature of Ceylon, p. 211.

te
bh

ts

Kpigraphia Zeylanica, Vol. 1V, pp. 67-72.

Ly)
Bq

Aanda-nama-vidite jayatiddhipatto
Tankd-talussita-dhaja pavare yatiso
Yo Tamba-rattharyati,..thera-bhiito

Colesu sdsana-patitthitake’si dhiro,
NEGAPATAM AND THERAVADA BUDDHISM 25

very words by which the inscription refers‘ to Ananda-thera. As
there is convincing proof that Buddhappiya lived in the twelfth
century, the Ananda-thera of the Polonnaruva inscription could very
well have been his teacher.

In my edition of the inscription referred to above, | have given
reasons for the identification of Tamba-rattha mentioned therein with
the country round Ligor (Nakhon Si Thammarat, -he ancient Sri
Dharmmaraja Nagara) in the Malay Peninsula. The authority of the
Sailendra kings, one of whom built a vihdra at Negapatam in South
India, extended to the Malaya Peninsula. If, therefore, the teacher
of Buddhappiya had connections with Ligor, his position as the
head of the vihara established in South India by one of the Sailendra
kings can be accounted for. It seems, therefore, that Buddhappiya
became the head of the Cudamani=-varma-vihara in succession to his
teacher, Ananda, in whose foot-steps he also followed in his activities
for the propagation of Buddhism in the Cola country.

From what we know of the Sailendra kings from their inscriptions,
they seem to have been followers of the Mahayana form of Buddhism,
but there is no evidence to show to what school of Buddhism the
vihdra built at Negapatam by Maravijayattuiiga-varma_ originally
belonged. From the foregoing, however, we find this viha@ra under
the control of Theravadins in the twelfth century. If the Sailendra
kings who founded this vihGra were Mahdyanists, its passing over to
the Theravadins is worthy of note.

The Theravada seems to have been in the ascendant at Nakhon
Si Thammarat (Sri Dharmaradja Nagara) in the thirteenth century.
About the same time or somewhat earlier we find Theravada supplant-
ing the Mahayana in Siam and Cambodia. The passing of the vihara
at Negapatam to the contro! of the Theravadins who had intimate
connections with Ceylon may also be taken as a part of this religious
movement of which very few historical details are known to us at
present.
The Tamil land and the Eastern Colonies
By Pror. K. A. Nivaxanra Sastrr

Tamil influences on the early script, languge, architecture and so
on of the Malaya peninsula and archipelago have been traced by
several scholars; but references to these lands in early Tamil litera-
ture are soméhow not so frequent as one would expect. One deci-
dedly early reference occurs in the Pattinappalai where, among the
imports into the city of Puhar or Kaveripattinam is included K4la-
gattu akkamum i.e. produce from Kalagam, which has been inter-
preted to mean Kadaram, modern Kedah as Coedés demonstrated in
his celebrated paper La Royaume de Crivijaya'. The equation of
Kadaram with Kalagam is found in the geographical section of the
Divakaram, the earliest lexicon in the Tamil language now accessi-
ble tous. The Pattinappdlai is a poem of the time of Cdla Karikala,
and cannot be placed much later than the end of the second century
A.D. or the beginning of the third.

It is the aim of this short note to invite attention to another of
these all too rare early Tamil texts mentioning the eastern colonies
and their trade connections with South India. It occurs in Canto
XIV (Il. 106-10) of the Silappadikaram, and reads:

Ongirum parappin
vanga-vittattut- | ondiyor-itta
vagilun-dugilum-avamum-vasamun-
dogu-karuppiramufi-jumandudan vanda
kondalodu pugundu.

The literal meaning of these lines is as follows: ‘Having entered:
together with the east wind that came laden with (the aroma) of aloe,
silks, sandal, spices, and camphor put by the residents of Tondi on
board a fleet of tall roomy ships.’ The place said to be entered is the
city of Madura, an inland city; that is why the poet is careful to
say that the person who entered the city did so with the eastern wind
(kondal); and the thought of the eastern wind calls up the image of
an armada of merchantmen laden with the cargo of precious articles
specified in lines 3 and 4 of the citation. It will be noticed that the
articles are all of them special products of the eastern lands on which
we have always depended for a supply of them, as the present war
condititions have sharply reminded us.

1 BEFEO,, xviii, 6, pp. 19 ff.
THE TAMIL LAND AND THE EASTERN COLONIES 27

There are two commentaries available on this text. The earlier
commentary (anonymous) correctly interprets the text without intro-
ducing a single extraneous idea, and leaves it there; we may note,
however, that the word vdsam (spices) is explained as comprising
takkolam (cubeb), Jatikkay (nutmeg) and other substances. *Takko-
lam’ would doubtless recall to the reader's mind the learned dis-
cussion of this word by Sylvain Léviin his essay on Ptolémée, Le
Niddesa, et la Brhatkatha in Etudes Asiatiques. The later annotator,
Adiyarkkunallar who wrote sometime about the fourteenth century
A.D. makes a greater display of the knowledge and beliefs of his
time. The whole comment is too long for reproduction, and we shall
notice only the points that concern our enquiry. He makes it clear
that Tondi was a town in the east—a natural inference from the men-
tion of Kondal in the text, as kondal is a special] name forthe eastern:
wind. Then he says that the kings of Tondi sent the articles men-
tioned as tribute to the ruler of Madura —an intrusive statement for
which there is no warrant in the neutral words Tondiyor—itta, placed
in ships by those of Tondi—of the text of the poem. We should not
hesitate to reject this suggestion of a political relation between the
Pandyan kingdom and Tondi of the East. The note on the list of
articles is of great interest'as bringing before us traces of a consi-
derable technical lore of which'the sources are unknown to us. Of
agil (aloe wood), for instance, he mentions three varieties—arumana-
van. takkoli, kiddravan, obviously getting their names from Ramaififia,
Takkédla, and Kidara (Kadara) very interesting from our point of
view. Again, among the many varieties of tugil (silks) noticed is
Kalagam i.e. produced in Kalagam or Kadaéram. Among the varie-
ties of dram (sandal) occurs haricandana, famous in early Javanese
epigraphy as the material out of which images of Agastya were made
at one time. Like his predecessor whom he closely follows generally,
Adiyarkkunallar includes takkélam and Jatikkay, cubeb and nutmeg,
with many other substances like lavangam under vésam. Of cam-
phor he seems to mention no fewer than fourteen kinds, Cinacctidam
—China camphor—among them.

Finally, he crowns the whole by saying that ‘Tondiyor’ stands
for ‘S6lakulattor’ descendants of the Cola family. This comment has
gone far to misguide modern students, and obscure the significance
of the text for a long time. For the late Dr. Swaminatha Aiyer added
a note to it saying that we may infer from this that there was a
Tondi on the east coast of South India which was different from the
celebrated Tondi of the Ceras on the west coast”, and subject to the

2 Tyndis of the Periplus and Ptolemy.
28 K. A. NILAKANTA SASTRI

rule of the Colas. All these remarks have been reproduced in their
entirety by Mr. V. R. Ramachandra Dikshitar in his translation of the
Silappadikadram, and he goes one step further and identifies Tondi of
thie text with the homonymous place on the coast of the Ramnad
district; he recognises, however, that most of the articles mentioned
came from the Archipelago islands in the east.”

The history of error is not without interest, and one is ‘tempted to
ask how did the learned Adiyarkkunallar come to gloss ‘Tondiyor’
with ‘sdlakulatt6r’ > Was he thinking of the naval expeditions of
the Colas against the empire of Srivijaya of which the memory might
have been still alive in his time? If that was so, did the Colas leave
behind a branch of the royal family to hold sway over their
fresh conquests in these lands? But of all this we have little evidence
from other sources. Or was the annotator only confusing ‘Tondiyor’
with ‘Tondaiyar’ and basing his gloss on the story in the Manimekalai
in which a Tondaiyan is born out of the liaison between a Cola prince
from Negapatam and a Naga princess Pilivali by name? However
that may be, he does not say anything on the location of Tondi. It is
placed on the east coast and more precisely identified with Tondi on
the Ramnad coast—a place which rose into some importance in the
twelfth century A.D.—by the modern writers cited above. But then,
how are we to explain the fleet of tall roomy ships on which these
precious cargoes are placed by the people of Tondi for their being
‘ carried off by the wind to the Madura coast?

It is clear the Tondi must be some place in the lands colonised
by the people of South India across the seas. We have a Tirunelvéli
in Jaffna, and a Madura island near Java, and other toponymous
identities will easily occur to the student of the subject. At the
moment | am unable to suggest any suitable identification, and it is
my main object to place the facts as they appear to me before scholars
who may not be readers of Tamil but whose co-operation would
be of value in discovering this place.

Ido not believe that the Silappadikdram is an early work like
the Pattinappdlai; in its present form it has too many words and
features of grammar and prosody that point to a much later date.
The reference in Kalidasa’s Raghuvamsa to winds from dvipantara
( Malaya ) laden with the fragrance of cloves is now well known ;°
and | think that the present reference to Tondi and its trade with
the Madura coast is later than the text of Kalidasa by about a
century, if not more.

3 The Silappadikaran or the Lay of the Anklet (1939), p. 204 n. 1.
4 JGIS., Vol. LX, Dvipantara.
Geographical Notes on the Kurram Valley

By Dr. V. S. AGRAWALA

Kurram Valley derives its name from the river Kurram which flows
through it. Fortunately this river finds mention in the Rgveda under
the name of Krumu ( #9 ) in the following two verses :—

So let not Rasa, Krumu or Anitabha, Kubha or Sindhu hold
you back.

Let not the watery Sarayi obstruct your ways-
all the bliss Ye give (Rgvada, V. 53. 9).

First with Trstama thou art eager to flo
and Susartu, and with Svetya here.

With Kubha; and with these Sindhu! and Mehatnu, thou
seekest in thy course Krumu and Gomati. (Rgveda,
X. 75. 6).

From the above it appears that these rivers, viz. Trstama, Rasa,
Anitabha, Susartu, Svetya, Kubha, Mehatnu, Krumu and Gomati were
the affluents of the great river Sindhu or Indus meeting it on its right
bank. The tributaries of the Indus on its left bank are mentioned in
a different verse in which the river Sohan flowing through the Rawal-
pindi district is called Sushoma. The Swat river is the same as the
Suvastu of the Mahabharata and the Puranas, but in the Rgveda its:
form seems to be Svetya. Kubha is the same as the Kabul, whereas
Krumu is Kurram and Gomati is Gomal.

The Safed-Koh range on the Indo-Afghan border seems to be the
same as the ancient Svetapatha. In the inscriptions found in the
Sanchi Stipas we have reference to a Greek of Svetapatha making
some donations as follows :—

*Setapathiyasa yonasa danam, i. e., the giftofa Yona (Greek)

resident of Setapatha (Safed-Koh)’ (Monuments of Sanchi by Sir
John Marshall, Vol. I, Inscriptions No. 89 and 475; 308 and 348).

Northern Waziristan through which flows the river Tochi was
visited by the Chinese pilgrim Hiuen Tsang and is referred to by him
under the name Ki-Kiang-na (Watters, Hiuen Tsang’s Travels, Il. 62).
It is the same as Qiquin of early Arab history and it was known in the
Mahabharata as the Kokanada region. The Kokanadas were a people
in the north-west, vanquished by Arjuna in the course of his conquest
(Mbh. Sabhaparavan. ch. XXVII, verse 18), Southern Waziristan
enclosing the Wana valley with its capital at Wana is ancient Vanayu

With us be

w forth with Rasa,
39 V. S. AGRAWALA

famous all along in Sanskrit literature for its breed of fine horses.
Bannu “east of Waziristan is referred to in Panini’s Astadhydyi (circa
fifth century B. C.) under the name of Varnu. Hiuen Tsang refers to
Bannu as Phalana and says that the country to the west of Phalana
was Ki-Kiang-na. ;

In and beyond the northern portion of the N. W. F. Province some
further identifications of names may be suggested e.g. Hindukusa was
known to the ancient Iranians as Uparigyena, i. e. a hill so high as to
the beyond the flight of the eagle. Chitral is ancient Chitraka, also
called Karagakara. The Panjkora is ancient Gauri, referred to by the
Greek writers as the Gouraios. Between the Panjkora and the Indus
flows the river Swat which was the ancient Suvastu. The Swat valley
was known as the Uddiyadna country in Buddhist geography. It is
referred to as Urdi (derivative Aurdayani) in the Mahabhasya of
Patafijali (second century B. C.). A trace of this is found in modern
Udegaon. South of Swat is Malakand whose ancient name was
Malavat. In the same region is Dargai with its ancient name Dargalas.
The great tribe of the Mohmands living to the north of the Kabul river
are mentioned in the Mahabharata and in Panini’s Astadhydyi as
Madhumanta (Panini, IV. 3. 93). The ancient name of the well-known
Afridis is Apritah, known from the same source (Panini, Rajanyadi
Group, IV. 2. 53). Charsadda above the junction of the Panjkora
with the Kabul is the region of ancient Puskalavati occupied by the
people called Puskalah. Geographically the region of Peshawar was
known as the Gandhara country with its eastern extension upto
Shahdheri. The western capital of Gandhara was at Puskalavati near
Charsadda and the eastern capital at Taksagila. The river Bara
which flows past Peshawar and joins the Kabul was known in older
days as the Vara (Mbh. Bhismaparvan, Ch. 1X). In a way the
history of the Kurram region partakes of the general history of the
whole Gandhara region for which there is enough material from the
Vedic times to the historic periods.
Background of Sufism in Indian Environment

By Mr. M. L. Roy CHowpHury

Once in a trance Muhammad is said to have asked his wife Ayesha,
states the author of Kunsul Asar il Qidam, ‘“‘Man Anti’’—who art
thou? Ayesha replied, “‘Ana Ayesha’’—I am Ayesha. Muhammad
said, “Man Ayesha’’—who is Ayesha? Ayesha answered, ‘‘Ibna-
tus Siddiq’’—daughter of Siddiq, Prophet's father-in-law, Muhammad
again asked,—'‘Who is Siddiq?”’ Aycsha was now astonished and
replied, “the father-in-Law of Muhammad.’ Muhammad repeated,
“Who is Muhammad” ?

Now Ayesha remained silent, for she understood that the Prophet
was in another state of existence where the index of life had become
“All is he—Hama Oust’? afzqt

And thus Muhammad was the first Sufi of Islam and his stage of
experiences is called the ecstasy—‘‘Hal’’ or ( @atfa)

Ibrahim Bin Adam belonged to the royal family of Balkh. “Forty
scimitars of gold and forty maces of gold were borne in front of him
and behind."’ Once on a hunting, he heard a voice, “‘“Awake Ibra-
him, wert thou made for this?’’ He left his royal robes and exchanged
them for woolen coats of a shepherd, bade farewell to his kingdom
and lived in a cave near Naysabi for long nine years. He cried out
in agony of his soul, “‘Oh God, from shame of disobedience to the
glory of submission unto thee.’” And Ibrahim was a Sufi, his stage is
called Renunciation— ( @uv@ )

Shagqiq of Balkh resigned himself entirely to the hands of God and
made no effort even to maintain his living, for he must not ask any-
thing; nor engage in a trade, his business was God alone. *‘Nine-
tenths of devotion consists in flight from mankind,” said the Shaqiaq,
and ‘‘the remaining tenth is in a silence."” And Shagiq was a Sufi:
his stage is silence (#ttaat )

Rabia, that mystic Rabia was once asked,” do you love God”’ ?

“Yes'’—was her reply.
“Do you hate the Devil>?’'—was the next query—

She replied, ‘‘My love of God leaves me no leisure to hate Devil.”’

On another occasion the Prephet appeared before Rabia in a
dream and asked, ‘‘Rabia—do you love me?’ Rabia answered,
“Oh apostle of God, who does not love thee? But love of God hath

so absorbed me that neither love nor hatred of anything remains in
my heart.”’
32 M. L. ROY CHOWDHURY

Anfi Rabia was a Sufi and her stage was love. (7a)

Yet these mystics were not called Sufis when they lived on the
surface of the earth, or the term Sufi did not come into existence till
two hundred years after the Prophet's death. The word “Tasawwuf”’
was not mentioned either in “‘Sittiah’”” compiled in 392 A.H. or even
in the ‘“‘Qamus”’ the standard Arabic Dictionary compiled in 817 A.H.
the pious men at the time of the Quran were known as ‘““Muqurrabin”’
(neighbours of God), ““Abrar’’ (virtuous men) ‘‘Zuhhad”’ (pious men);
but there were no ‘“‘Sufis’” as such, though the root from which the
word has been derived existed in the vocabulary’

The two hundred years following the death of Muhammad were
characterised by devastating civil wars, relentless military despotism
and hard mechanical piety of the orthodox creed which led to a revolt
towards asceticism and quietism amongst hundreds of followers of
the Faith. Wearied and disgusted with the political strifes and in-
security of individual safety, they retired from the things of the world
and devoted themselves to things of God. Ihe terror of hell so
exhaustively and graphically described in the Quran roused in them
an intense consciousness of sin which drove them to seek salvation
in ascetic practices and in being sinless. With the quietism was
rather a religion and not a speculative system; and they styled them-
selves Muslims. To them recitation of the Divine names (Zikr) was
superior to five canonical prayers; and trust in God (Tawakkul) meant
renunciation of personal initiative and volition resigning oneself in

1 The word Sufi is supposed to have been derived from :—

(a) ‘Saf’—meaning woolen, for the learned men wore woolen garments and
lived in caves and monasteries.

(b) ‘Soaaf? meaning ‘tin the direction’’—to turn the face to one direction
and Sufis are those who turn their faces to the direction of God

(c) ‘“‘Sujfa’—there was a sect whose members were cclibates; they served
Kaba and worshipped God. The Sufi came from the old “sufa’’ for they were
sincere. ‘‘Sufa’’? means sincerity.

(d) ‘Sug’? ich means ‘‘a line—those who form tho “first line” of lovers
of God and their work is called ‘‘Tasawwuf,’”’

(e) “Saf? meaning a coach; during the time of Muhammad one group of
people came from outside to learn Islam. They were given seats on a *Sofa’’
(raised platform) from where they learnt everything. Sufi refers these men.
Their “sincere” is called ‘‘Tasawwuf.”’

(f) “Safu’” meaning purity’ according to Arabic Grammar Rumi and
Hafiz, supported this derivation.

(g) ‘‘Sophia”—some claim its Greek origin—“Sophia’’—wisdom.
BACKGROUND OF SUFISM IN INDIAN ENVIRONMENT 33

“God's hands i.,e., in short, with them trust in God meant absence of
activity to the extent of not seeking means of ‘livelihood or even not
taking medicine when ill. This attitude of life meaning the withdrawal
of self has been described as quietism of Islam which soon passed
into mysticism meaning concentration ‘tin the inward life of dying
to self and living in God.""** Along with the growth of mysticism,
germs of which had already existed in Islam and in the Prophet's
life, new methods of expression of the mystic becaine increasingly
frequent through symbolism of Love and Wine side by side. With
this quietistic and devotional growth sprang up a speculative and
pantheistic movement which was more un-Islamic than Islamic, in-
viting sharp comments and fierce opposition of the orthodox.’

The evolution of Sufism up to this point, | mean until the middle
of the 3rd century Hijra, may be called inherently Islamic.

So long there was no fixed process of these quietists, and devo-
tionalists developed on the lines of Islamic canons and according to
the mystic Khwaja Khan, the doctrine of Tasawwuf were taught
by songs. Zonmon Al Misri (860 A.D.) was the first to put their
doctrines in form; Juniyad of Bagdad (910 A.D.) to systematise the same
and Abu Bakr Shibli to preach them officially.

Thus far J] have developed my subject in such a way as to give
my readers a definite idea that Sufism was a purely Islamic growth.
Nicholson in his famous ‘“‘History of Arabic Literature’ traced the
growth of Sufism to the influence of Christianity, Neo-Platonism,
Gnosticism, and Buddhism. E. G. Browne in his still more famous
“Literary History of Persia’’ tells us that Sufism grew out of conge-
nial soil in the mystic environments of Persia. The theosophical
publications from Adyar on the subject of Sufism in Sindh postulated
that the Hindu Vedanta was the ‘‘via Iluminativia of Sufism and the
“broken lights’? that fell on their paths in India diverted them to
newer paths.

Nicholson says that the early quietists of Islam were influenced by
the Euchite Christians of Syria ‘‘who magnified the beauty of cons-
tant prayers, abandoned their all and travelled as poor brethren.”
Biographies of Sufi Saints abound in graphic conversations between
Muslim devotees and Christian «ascetics which bear traces of Chris-
tian influence on their life. Nicholson says that the monastic life

2 Abu Bakr Shibli defined Sufism as—As Sufi la Yara Fid darain ma

Allah Ghyar Ullah Sufi does not recognise any one except Allah in both the
worlds.

Abdul Hasan Nuri says—At Tasawwuf Yataraku Kulli hazzin nafsi Sufism
Is renunciation of all pleasures of the body.

5
34 M. L. ROY CHOWDHURY

which ghas been rigorously prohibited by the Prophet had come into
the Sufi ordination possibly from the proximity of, if not, association
with the Christian monastic orders which the latter took from the
Buddhists. Buddhism flourished in Balkh, Transoxina, Turkestan
long before their incorporation by Islam. It is a fact that the Buddhists
had carried their teachings amongst the Muslims who now came in
touch with them. The legend of Ibrahim which has been quoted
above—a prince of Balkh who one day suddenly cast off his royal
robes and became wandering Sufi, was nothing but a replica of
Gautama’s renunciation of his kingdom. Goldziher in his famous
treatise on ‘The Influence of Buddhism upon Islam’’ writes that the
doctrine of ‘“‘fana’’ (annihilation) is nothing but Buddhist ‘nirvdna’
and the system of ‘“‘stations’’ on the road thereto bears a close
resemblance to Buddhism. By that time i.,e., between 800 A.D.
and 860 A.D. the Greek theosophy flowed into Islam through the
Catholicity of the Abassid Khalifas from the Christian monsteries
of Syria, from the Persian Academy at Jundeshpur in Khurdisthan and
from the Sabians of Haran in Mesopotamia. It is really significant
that Zun nun of Egypt who first worked up the ficating theosophy
of Sufism into a system was by birth a Christian, by race a Coptic or
Nubian and by adoption a Muslim. It is equally significant that the
Muta’zzalite rationalism filtered into Islam after it had come in touch
with the Hellenistic ideas through its association with Alexandrian
speculation.

However plausible and learned may be the arguments of those
eminent scholars, | do hold that one need not seek for the origin of
Sufism anywhere beyond Islam. Islam with its stern rigidity, clear
commands. emphatic no-s was very congenial to the growth of Sufism.
From the earliest days of Islam we note an attempt by the Muslim
sages to go beyond the path of every day Islam without completely
breaking away from it; thus psychologically interpreted, the attitude
of the seers of Islam was to find out some sort of sanction from the
Quran, so that they might follow their religious convictions without
much torment of conscience—for Islam would not suffer any departure
—not even by a dot from the orthodox interpretations of the recog-
nised Divines.

Theirs was the attempt to live within Islam, but to think beyond
Islam and act beyond its ritualist code. In short, they continued to
offer lip-service to the established religion while as they progressed,
they modified and softened the dogmas in such a way as to suit their
own spiritual needs. Interpretation of some of the verses of Quranic
revelations were carried to such an extent that “‘Allah’”’ the god of
BACKGROUND OF SUFISM IN INDIAN ENVIRONMENT 35.

warth and mercy was depersonalised and worshipped as an abstract
idea under the title of ‘\Al-Haq’’—the Truth. That this interpretation
did not find favour with the orthodox Ulama is proved by the way in
which they sought to repress the Sufis and rationalists when they tried to
express their attitude of mind in terms of action.

From quietism to mysticism it is not a long run, and from mysti-
cism to pantheism it is still a nearer approach. Islam with its absence
of a metaphysical background was a fruitful soil for the growth of
pantheism. And when Semitic Islam conquered Aryan Persia, we
find that the Aryan Monism of Persia in which “God ceases to be a
Being external to the individual and Law is no’ longer a command
imposed from without’’ offered her an exc ellent stage of develop-
ment. Had not Islam come in centact with Aryan. metaphysics or
Greek intellectual abstructions, we cannot hazard what would have
been the course of Islam inspite of the attempts of early ascetics or
mystics to give it a safety-valve compensating her bankruptcy in
metaphysics.”

In Arabia there might have been another prophet to soften her un-
questioned faith in metaphysics or there might have been a religious
war as in Europe in the 16th and [7th centuries. Ethics of Semitic
Islam mixed up with Aryan metaphysics of Persia blossomed forth
into the beautiful Pantheism which is known by the general name of
Iranian Sufism. ;

The first step from theosophy to Pantheism was taken by a Per-
sian, the celebrated Bayazid (875 A.D.}—son of Zoroastrian tutored
by a Kurd. He introduced openly the doctrine of ‘‘Fana’’—self-
annihilation and in a charmed moment he exclaimed, “| went from
God to God while they cried from me in me, O thou I.”

In his Pantheistic vein he felt, ““Verily | am God there is no God
except me; so worship me.”’ When he conceived the unity of worlds
by his side, he cheered himself;’’ | came forth from Bayazid-ness,
as a snake from its skin. Then I looked, I saw that the lover, beloved,
and love are one, for in the world, by unification all can be one.”” Or
in other words, “I am the wine-drinker, I am the wine and I am
the cup-bearer.””

In course of a century after the great Bayazid had passed away,
Sufism which in Arabia was simple quietism and asceticism passed

_ 8 Shaikh Abu Said Abul Khair (1040 A.D.) went to the length of believing
in the doctrine of Tanasukh (Transmigration), Naksh (re-incarnation)
into the body of animals (Maskh), Vegetables, (Faskh) or minerals (Raskh).
Abu Muslim of Khurasan actually based his arguments on Suratul Ragara on
the doctrine of re-incarnation. This is certainly an instance of the influence
of the Aryan doctrine of transmigration of the Soul.
36 M. L. ROY CHOWDHURY

throwgh natural stages of mysticism and theosophy only to become pan-
theism and monism through its contact with the Persian Aryanism.
On the other hand what was at the outset only a form of life adopted
by the individuals whose spiritual needs communicated to a small
group of friends, could not be satisfied within the ethical limits of
Islam, in course of time became a monistic system—a school for saints
organised between Pir and Murid—master and disciple.

The doctrines of these saints soon began to be collected and sys-
tematised in treatises such as the Qutul Qulub by Abu Talib Makki
(996 A.D.), ‘Kitab-ul-Lumma by Abu Nasar-al-Sarraj, Risala by Qashay-
rilyya etc. The moment the doctrines began to be collected, there
arose sects amongst the Sufis and in a short time we find the Dar-
weshis, Adawiyyas (1163 A.D.), Qadiris (1166 A.D.) and Rafias. The
Mevlevis were a Sufi order formed by the great Persian mystic Jala-
luddin Rumi with whom pantheism remained a living faith tinged
with his characteristic melancholy tone (1273 A.D.). He desired in
his pantheistic mood to go back te God from whom he emanated
under the allegory of a flute crying to go back to the bamboo stock
from which it was separated.

“Oh hear the flute’s sad tale again
Of separation | complain

Ever since it was my fate to be
Thus cut off from my parent tree,
Sweet moan | live made in the pensive sigh
While men and women join my cry.
Man’s life is like this hollow rod;
One end is in the lips of God

And from the other sweet notes fall,
That to the mind and spirit call,
And join us in the All in All.”

The Sufis by that time became targets of attacks of the orthodox
order owing to their free thinking and pantheistic ideas. Thanks to
the efforts of great Ghazzali, the Sufis could win a secure position in
the Islamic world; Ghazzali interpreted the Islamic theology from a
mystical standpoint and he reconciled it with the sayings of the Sufis
by giving it a metaphysical background. It was he who gave the
“relations’’ (Kasuf) of the mystics a place by the side of the “‘tradi-
tions’ (Taqid) and ‘‘Reason’’ (Aql) as a fundamental principle of the
faith. Thus the orthodox was constrained to tolerate the worship of
saints, miracles of the ‘“Awliya’’ and veneration of tombs of holy men,
through the strict interpretations of Shariat could never permit the same.
BACKGROUND OF SUFISM IN INDIAN ENVIRONMENT 37°

In Persia the Sufis found a very convenient soil, and the pheno-
menal progress it made could be read in the contemporary poetry
of Iran. Imagery, allegory and fantasy which are distinguishing cha-
racteristics of Persian poetry received forceful treatment in the tran-
scendental out-pourings of the Suf writers of the period. Of them
Abu Said Bin Abul Khair of Khurasan expressed the relations between
man and God and that between beauty and intoxication in most en-
chanting terms. ‘““The real basis of their poetry,” says Von Kramer,
‘is a lofty ethical system which recognised in the purity of heart,
charity, self-renunciation and bridling of passions, the necessary con-
ditions of eternal happiness.’ Attached to this we find a pantheistic
theory of the emanation of all things from God and their ultimate
reunion with Him. In his famous Masnavi Jalaluddin Rumi wrote :—

“God is the sole reality (Al-Haq) and is above all names and defi-
nitions. He is not only the absolute Being but also absolute Beauty.
It is the nature of Beauty to desire manifestation, the phenomenal
universe is the result of this desire in which God says, ‘] was a
hidden treasure and | desire to be known, so I| created creatures in
orde: that | might be known.’ Human soul belongs to the’ spiritual
world and is ever seeking to be reunited to its source. Such union
is hindered by the bodily sense, but it can be enjoyed at times before
death by a stage called ‘Hal’, ecstacy, where the veil of sensual per-
ception is rent asunder and the Soul is merged in God.”

There is yet another direction in which Persian Aryanism influenced
the Semitic Islam, | mean in the direction of the doctrine of salvation
through the preceptor. It is well-known that to an Aryan, the rela-
tion between the sensible and the reai world has been brought by a
series of incarnations in which the Creator himself comes to teach the
Law to the Created. But according to the Semitic conception it is an
Angel, generally Gabriel, that brings the message of the other world
into this. The Aryan doctrine of incarnation and personal relation-
ship between the visible and invisible through the agency of a visible
medium, was very favourable to the growth of the idea of ‘“‘Murshid’’
and ‘‘Murid’’ (Master and disciple) in Persia. In fact this doctrine
carried to its extreme length has supplied to the philosophic back-
ground of the development of Shi‘ism in which Ali and the Imams are
more or less the anointed interpreters of the messages of God. They
hold that the secrets of the messages of God and Islam lie not in
the lines of the Quran, but between the lines, and more often beyond
them. The Prophet initiated only his immediate disciples into these
secrets. Thus Ali was the first to whom Muhammad confided the
secret of inner Islam, and from Ali it was transmitted to the twelve
38 M. L. ROY CHOWDHURY

Imares. The Imam divulged these secrets of spiritual effulgence to
thoge only whom he considered fit to hold this message and this pro-
cess was handed down from generation to generation round which
grew the doctrine of ‘“‘Murshid’’ and “‘Murid’’ in Islam in a wider
form under the caption of Pir Muridi.

In short Shi’ism thus interpreted, as Mukhtar holds, is nothing but
a highly Aryanised interpretation of Islam where the Prophet and
Imams are more or less divine incarnations.

The pantheistic doctrine of Iran in which every thing is a manifes-
tation of God and there is nothing apart from Him, was very favourable
to the growth of the conception that the highest bliss lies in the ulti-
mate union with that Impersonal Being frem which the Creation has
emanated. The secret of this process through which this union can
be attained is known, as the Aryan thinks, only to the souls that
have been illumined. Thus to an lranian, the idea of association with
a Being more developed and more illumined approaching the highest
impersonal Being, was but a logical process of the Aryan theory of
incarnation. Carried further, this process conceived that the illumined
Soul of the teacher acts as an intermediary between the Creator and
the created. The Aryan believes that the miraculous powers of the
IIlumined Soul of the Pir (Guru) may be brought to the use and
advantage of the disciple. This belief in Guru (Pir) has been carried
to an extreme length when Hafiz propounded.

‘‘Drown your carpet into wine, if your Pir says so;
For your guide knows the way and ‘its destination.”’

The most hateful thing of Islam, | mean wine, even may be in-
dulged in, if Pir so desires; Guru was thus given a place far above the
covenanted message. The curtain that lies between God and man may
be lifted only by the Pir, and in Persia in one form Sufism ultimately
resolved itself more or less almost into a worship by the Pirs.

By the 13th century when Islam came in direct touch with Indo-
Aryan mind in India we find the fullest development of Sufism in this
direction.

Islam had already come in touch with India through her conquest
of Sind, that mystic Sind which was the meeting ground of so many
cultures and civilisations from the very ancient times. Sind was pulsa-
ting with new thoughts cf Advaita philosophy of Samkardcharya when
Muhammad bin Qasim conquered the land. Forty years of Arab rule
historically isnothing but a romantic episode in Indian annals, but
from the standpoint of culture it saw the acclimatisation of Islam on
Indian scil. Soon the conquering hordes melted away and dissolved
into Indian soil which from the standpoint of culture became
BACKGROUND OF SUFISM IN INDIAN ENVIRONMENT 39

the foundation of a movement, the exponants being Lal Shah, Firuz,
Baholul and others. A transcendental Vedanttic tone pervades the
out-pourings of these Muslim saints, from which have been quoted
quatrains of following centuries including those of the famous Sham-
suddin Tabrez. .

For two hundred and forty years after Muhammad bin Qasim,
there was practically no physical movement of Islam towards India,
when India was rather making a silent headway into Islam through
the translation of her philosophy during the Abbasid period. Beginn-
ing from Mansur, Indian philosophy filtered through the Sansknit
schools that were established in Baghdad by the converted Baramaki
family, especially by Barmaki Yahayah, Khalid, and Jafar; innumer-
able references to Sanskrit works have been found in the contemporary
Muslim literatures both of Arabia and Persia. By the time Ghazni
conquered Hindustan, Indian philosophies specially Yogasastra,
Logic, Astronomy, and medicine had become great favourites with
the illuminati of the Islamic world. Al Beruni may be regarded as a
great transmitter of Indian ideas into Islam. The four centuries that
followed Al Biruni, was the period when Persia was synthesising
Islam in the east, while Turks were vulgarising Islam in the north
East. It is significant that Islam was spread in India through these
Turko-Afghans who had no great cultural heritage to boast of and
themselves were but half-Muslim in the strict sense of the term. If
Islam was making her physical cortquest of Hindustan through these
Turko-Afghans, India was Hinduising Islam through the elastic and
absorbing tendencies inherent in her culture. Contemporary writings
of Amir Khusrau, Malik Muhammad Jaisi, Kabir, Kamal bear innu-
merable traces of Hindu influences on the Muslim thoughts of the
Turko-Afghan period of Indian history. As the movement towards
domicilisation of Islam continued further, we find the importation of
purely Hindu ideas into the citadel of Islam through the incompletely
converted Hindus. The advent of Darweshes, Awliyas and saints like
Mainuddin Chisti, Ruknuddin, Nizamuddin Awliya and others, had a
peculiar significance in Indian cultural history.

The Eastern mind is generally a worshipper of personalities more
than of principles. The existence of these saints naturally attracted
the local population through their piety, sympathy and spiritual efful-
gence. Towards the latter parts of the Turko-Afghan period, the
Hindus were gradually softening their exclusiveness and approaching
their Muslim brethren who had by then become permanent factors
in their society. This process of fusion found a partial consummation
in the rise of saints like Ramananda, Chaitanya, Kabir, Nanak, and
“40 M. L. ROY CHOWDHURY

“others, to name a few only. These Hindu and Muslim saints found
ready ‘response amongst: the followers of both the communities. The
“‘Dargas’’ (Resorts) of Muslim “Pits” as well as the ‘‘Akhras’’ of
Hindu “‘Sants’? became the common resort of the followers of both
the faiths by the 15th century. The Mahdi movement which pro-
phesied the appearance of a Regenerator of Islam under the title of Al-
Mahdi after 1000 years of Muhammad gave a new pulsation inside
Islam. A number of celebrities claimed the dignity of Al-Mahdi both
in India and in the north-west. Thus from the middle of the 10th
century Hijra in India there were three liberal movements of Islam
working systematically, one to the north working from the south
through Sufis like Lal Sah and Firuz, the second through Mahdists like
Bayazid, Islam Shah and Shaikh Mubarak, and the third working
through Kabir, Jaisi, Kamal, and others; while a Hindu movement
was traversing the whole of Hindustan working through saints like
Chaitanya, Nanak and others. The great eclectic system called the
Din-i-llahi was nothing but a wave of this thought-process working
through the great Imperial theosophist, Akbar. This eclectic process
continued till the middle of the 17th century when it collapsed with
the death of Dara Shuko. This was the most fruitful period of the
growth of Sufism in Indian history gathering around the personalities
of the saints and master-minds of Islam in India, and no history of
Sufism can be written without a thorough study of the life and time
of Dara Shuko.*

I have already pointed out that ex-Arabian Islam had by that
time been steadily developing the idea of worship of Gurus through
the personalities of illumined souls and that it had been more or less
reconciled with orthodox sects outside Arabia through the efforts of
Imam Ghazzali. Once on Indian soil, this idea of worship round the
personality of a higher being ultimately dwindled into the worship of
that personality—a process which was also not unknown in Persia.
From his childhood an Indian is impregnated with the idea that—
‘God wants a union with Him that wants Him. Every heart is an
abode of God. But he has eyes yet he sees Him not; he has legs
yet he approaches Him not. He has capacities yet they are latent.”’
An Indian is always told that these latent capacities can be developed
so that he might see, feel, and approach Him; but it must be through
a medium. Therefore he must associate himself with a soul that is
already illumined. Thus both the Hindus and Muslims approached the

4 In Sirr-i-Akbar, Dara Shuko used many of the Indian terms to re-

present the Sufi ideas and vice versa which clearly show the influence of
Hindu ideas that penetrated into Islam.
BACKGROUND OF SUFISM IN INDIAN ENVIRONMENT = 41

illumined souls of saints to show them the way to God and draw them
to a plane of higher existence.

As no two men are similar to each other in all respects, so no two,
souls are similar in their spiritual experiences. Each of these illumined
souls spread his illumination to his immediate circle in his own way and
thus round about each saint grew up a special organisation or religious
order infused with the spirit and form of the personality «who occupied
the centre. In no time in India there grew up different orders and
organisations round the personality of different saints the most im-
portant of them being :—

Chistia, Shattari, Qadiria, Nagas Bandia, Surhawardia and Be-Shara

There are again orders within orders and sub-orders, too, according
to the experiences of Pirs and disciples.

The Indian Sufi Orders rest entirely on the Pir or Guru. It is ex-
pected that every Pir shall win for his disciple the Divine favours
through his advanced powers. There is the system of initiation to
give the first ordination amongst the Indian Sufis in imitation of Indian
initiation (AeAat), But the Sufi ceremony is much simpler—the disciple
is to place his hand on that of his master and swear allegiance to
him. After initiation the Sufi is supposed to be a traveller (Salik) in
the path (Tariqat), and he is to plod on and to observe the rules of
the order including ritualistic observances such as Zkr, Remembrance
( sara ).

He has then to pass through several stages of spiritual existence
before he reaches his destination and they are Nasut, Malakut,
Jabrat, and Lahut almost similar to the Indian Annamaya Kosa, Préna-
maya Kosa, Jfdnamaya Kosa and Hiranmaya Kosa. Different names
have been given to these stations by different Pirs such as Shariat,
Tarigat, Maarfat and Hagiqat—these too have Indian synonyms for
them such as Karmakdnda, Upasanakanda, JAdnakanda and Samadhi.

In the stage of Shariat the disciple moves in the circle of rules of
conduct as laid down by the Law of Religion; in the second stage of
Tariqat he entres into the spirit of Laws; in the stage of Maarfat he
understands the relation between God and his creations. In the final
stage of Hagiqat he completely dissolves into God. In this ecstasy he
cries out as did the great Suh—

‘I am God, I am God, | am God."’
Editorial Notes

On the [6th June 1944 Sir P. C. Ray, the esteemed President of
the Managing Committee of the Greater India Society, breathed his
last at his residence in the University College of Science, Calcutta.
The following resolution was passed by the Managing Committee of
the Greater India Society at its meeting held immediately there-
after :—

‘Resolved that the Managing Committee of the Grater India
Society records its profound sense of grief at the lamented
death of Sir P. C. Ray, Kt., D,Sc., Ph.D., its much respected
President for the last ten years. His was a dedicated life—
dedicated to all noble causes tending to benefit his country-
men and relieve suffering humanity. His numerous and
magnificent contributions to the advancement of his country-
men in widely different fields will be gratefully remembered
by them and will be an endless source of inspiration to them
in future times. The Greater India Society has been bene-
fitted along with numerous other institutions by his sage
guidance and his generous patronage.”

An obituary notice of the late lamented scientist, patriot and

humanitarian will be published in the next number of this Journal.

* * * * *

On the occasion of the first visit of Dr. R. E. Mortimer Wheeler,
the new Director-General of Archaeology in India, to Calcutta, the
members of the Greater India Society met him in the rooms of the
Royal Asiatic Society of Bengal on the 14th June 1944 at 4-45 p.m.
At the meeting Dr. Wheeler, in response to the request of the Hony.
Secretary, accepted the office of Vice-President of the Managing
Committee of the Society and he further agreed to give a general
permission to the officers of his Department to contribute papers to
the Society's Journal, subject only to the normal rule of his prelimi-
nary inspection before publication. To indicate its high appreciation
of the wholehearted support accorded to the Society by Dr. Wheeler,
the Managing’ Committee authorised the Hony. Secretary to present
him with a select list of the Society’s publications including a com-
plete set of its Journal up-to-date. These were presented through the
intermediary of Mr. T. N. Ramachandran, the then Curator of the
EDITORIAL NOTES 4g

Archaeological Section of the Indian Museum, Calcutta and mem-
ber of the Managing Committee of the Society.
* * i * *
The Managing Committee of the Greater India Society gratefully
acknowledges the receipt of the following donations since the
beginning of the current year :—

Dr. Narendra Nath Law... ... Rs. 100/-

Dr. Nalinaksha Dutt wee . Rs. 50/-
Dr. U. N. Ghoshal vee »» Rs. 50/-
* * * . * Bd

In sending out the present Stein Memorial Number of the Journal
of the Greater India Society, the editor expresses his grateful thanks to
the scholars from and outside India who have contributed articles
inspite of the difficult conditions prevailing at present. Some of the
articles which were received too late are reserved for publication in
the next number of this Journal which will also be issued in honour of
the late great explorer and Orientalist.

Printed and Published by Sj. J. C. Sarkhel, at the Calcutta Oriental Press,
9. Panchanan Ghosh Lane, Calcutta.
Sir Marc Aurel Stein Memorial Number—Part If

THE

JOURNAL |

OF THE

GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

JULY, 1944 No. 2

VoL. XI

EDITED BY

U. N. GHOSHAL

Articles :
(Dr. F. W. Thomas) wwe 45
gt

The Early Population of Lou-lan-Shan-shan
Warucin=Sah (Dr. W. B. Henning)
Virampatnam (R. E. M. Wheeler)
Sone References to Kataha Dvipa in Ancient Indian Literature
(Dr. V. S. Agrawala) we .. 9f
Editorial Notes :
Obituary Notice : vee att 99

Published by—
THE GREATER INDIA SOCIETY, CALCUTTA
Agents outside India—

Messrs. LUZAC & CO., 46, Great Russell Street, London, w. ¢. &
Annual Subscription— Rs, 4-8 or 8s. 6d., including postage
Greater India Society (Established 1927)
Aims and Objects

1. To organise the study of Indian Culture in Greater India (i.e.
Serindia, India Minor, Indo-China and Insulindia) as well as in China,
Korea, Japan and other countries of Asia.

2. To arrange for publication of the results of researches into the
history of India’s spiritual and cultural relations with the outside world.

3. To create an interest in the history of Greater India and
connected problems among the students in the schools, colleges, and
Universities of India by instituting a systematic study of those subjects
and to take proper steps to stimulate the same.

4. To popularise the knowledge of Greater India by organising
meetings, lantern lectures, exhibitions and conferences.

Membership Rules

1. The annual subscription payable by members is Rs. 12/- only.
Members are entitled to receive the publications of the Society at
concession rates and copies of the Journal of the Society free of cost.

2. Resident members may have access to the Society's collection
of books, pamphlets and periodicals etc. on application either to
the Honorary Secretary of the Society or the Librarian. Calcutta
University. The Society’s collection is housed, by arrangement with
the Calcutta University authorities, in the University Library.

Officers and Members of the Managing Committee,
Greater India Society, 1944

President—Dr. Shyamaprasad Mookerjee, M.A., D.Litt. Bar-at-Law.

Vice-Presidents—Rao Bahadur K.N. Dikshit, M.A.,O.C. Gangoly, Esq.,
Dr. R. E. Mortimer Wheeler, D.Litt.

Hony. Secretary —Dr. U. N. Ghoshal, M.A,, Ph.D.

Hony. Jt. Secretary—Dr. Kalidas Nag, M.A.; D.Litt, (Paris.)

Other Members of the Committee—Dr. Narendra Nath Law, M.A.,
Ph.D., Prof. Suniti Kumar Chatterjee, M.A., D.Litt. (Lond,);
Dr. Prabodh Chandra Bagchi, M.A., D.Litt. (Paris); Dr.
Nalinaksha Dutt, M.A., Ph.D., D.Litt. (London.); Mm. Vidhu-
sekhara Bhattacharyya; Dr. Nihar Ranjan Ray, M.A., Ph.D.,
D.Litt. (Leiden); Dr. Jitendranath Banerjea, M.A., Ph.D.;
T.N. Ramachandran, Esq., M.A.

JOURNAL OF THE CREATER INDIA SOCIETY

Published twice a year, in January and July. Annual Subscrip-
tion—Rs. 4-8 or 8s.-6d.—inclusive of postage. Volumes [-X already
published. :
NOTICE

The Journal of the Greater India Society closes its

tith year with the publication of this issue. Subscribers

to continue their patronage to the Journal are

desiring
subscription for

earnestly requested to remit their annual
the I2th year as early as possible,
Manager.

$5, Badurbagan Row, ;

Calcutta.
ARTIC:

el

~~.
_
“he

Sir Marc Aurel Stein
(1862-194%3)

JOURNAL

GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

Vout. XI duty, 1944 No. 2

The Early Population ‘of Lou-lan-Shan-shan

By Dr. F. W. THOMAS

Concerning the small state of Lou-lan or Shan-shan, situated
to the south and south-west of Lop-nor, i.e. the Lop lake and salt-
encrusted morass in Chinese Turkestan, a certain amount of informa-
tion was made accessible in 1756 by the publication of Deguignes’
Historie générale des Huns; see Vol. 1, Part Il, pp. 11-2. The parti-
culars adduced were mainly, as in the case of the other states, those
recorded in the Former Han Annals of the Chinese; but Marco Polo’s
account of the ‘town of Lop’ was also brought in. Thus the geo-
graphical situation of the state, as lying mostly south of the terminal
course of the joined Tarim and Cer-cen rivers where they approach
Lop-nor and as having on the ‘south-east’ the mountains and peoples
of ‘Tibet,’ was adequately defined, and the mainly desert character
of the land was described. In the text (chapter no. 96) of the Annals,
translated by A. Wylie in 1881-2,’ the gazetteer-like entries are
accompanied by a historical relation wanting in the case of most of
the other states. This was due to the initial importance of Lou-lan,
as immediately adjoining the new Chinese north-western frontier
resulting from the expulsion, c. 121 B.C., of the Hsiung-nu domina-
tion from what is now Kan-su. After the first relations, soon estab-
lished, with China the state had to trim its policy in the face of the
Hsiung-nu power, still able to threaten through the Chii-shih territory

1. Journal of the R. Anthropological Institute, X, pp. 20-73, XI, pp. 83-115;
also (1926) De Groot, Die Weatlande Chinas in der vorchristlichen Zeit,
pp. 46-182, .
48 . W. THOMAS

.

on the north, and the fluctuations of Chinese control over Turkestan
and Pamir kingdoms. In 77 B.C. it had to admit a Chinese military
colony under a Commandant-general, and, with its name changed
to Shan-shan, it remained for the most part subservient to China.
For the period 25-239 A.D. the Later Han Annals and the Wei-liio,”
both translated by Chavannes, afford some further: information. Dur-
ing the period c. 25-73 A.D., when Chinese influence was in abeyance,
there were in Turkestan, besides Hsiung-nu interpositions, also inter-
state struggles, in the course of which, after c. 60 A.D.,° two states
became predominant in the regions south of the desert, namely
Shan-shan, which extended as far west as the Niya river, absorb-
ing the former small kingdoms of Calmadana (Cer-cen), Hsiao-wan
in the southern mountains, Cad’ota (Ching-chiieh) on the river, and
Parvata (Jung-lu, Pe-pin) on the upper reaches of that river, and on
the other hand, Khotan, which became its neighbour. From c. 73
A.D. Shan-shan was again dominated by China; and some few years
after 119 A.D. a new military colony was established at a junction
of routes in the desert region north of the Tarim river, receiving
the name Lou-lan in memory of the ancient designation of the
state.“ As long as that colony existed, i.e. at least until the first
half of the [Vth century A.D.,° Shan-shan must have been under
the control of some Chinese power; and even later it was subject
to interferences and invasions from that side.° But with the widen-
ing scale of events its inconsiderable extent and remote situation in
the south-eastern corner of Chinese Turkestan reduced its signi-
ficance: from c. 445—c. 670 A.D. it played a part only as an appa-
nage of the Tu-yu[k]-hun kingdom, of the Tsaidam and Koko-nor,

2 T’oung-pao, II. vi (1905), pp. 519-571 (Wei-liie), viii (1907), pp. 149-234
(Later Han Annals).

3 See Chavannes, Leter Han Annals, p. 172.

4 On the Chinese practice of so reviving old appellations, see Pelliot,
BEFEO., VI, p. 871, n. 2.

5 For the dating see Stein, Serindia, p. 426.

6 In 441 A.D. Shan-shan wag occupied during a whole year by An-chou,
a prince of the Pei-liang dynasty of Kan-su, which had ruled (from Sha-chou
to Liang-chou) from c. 397-439 A.D., when it was overthrown by the Imperial
Wei. An-chou’s army, sent in advance of the proposed invasion of Kao-ch’ang
by his brother Wu-hui, drove out the Shan-shan king Pi-lung and waited
in the state capital, I-hsiu: see O. Franke, Hine Chinesische Tempelinschrift,
pp. 17-8 (Berlin Academy Sitzungsberichte, 1907).
.

THE EARLY POPULATION OF LOU-LAN-SHAN-SHAN 47

a

itself owning a loose allegiance to a Chinese power,’ and thenceforth

only as a province of Tibetan (c. 670-1035), later of Tangutan
(c. 1035-1226 A.D.), rule. Marco Polo found one ‘large town,’ no
doubt on the site of the modern Carkhlik; but its inhabitants were
‘Musalmans.’ Later the whole country, as far as its western border,
became deserted; and it is doubtful whether the early population has
left any descendants at all, the now existing settlements being all
of modern origin and even the ‘Lop-lik’ fishing-people of the river
reaches being immigrants, of Turkish speech.” )

Modern interest in the country was primarily geographical, cen-
tred upon problems relating to desiccation and the situation and
area of Lob-nor. There has supervened a keen archeological inter-
est, kindled by explorations of desert sites, which have brought to
light remains of a once-flourishing civilization. Suggested by Sir
Sven Hedin's discovery of a desert site representing the ancient
Chinese military colony of Lou-lan, the expeditions of Sir Aurel
Stein, carried out with remarkable enterprize, endurance and insight,
archaeological and geographical. have reconstructed, so to speak,
the extinct civilization in many of its chief aspects, administrative,
social, religious and artistic, and have recovered relics of utensils
and fabrics used in common life. The finds also illustrate and
amplify the historical information furnished by Chinese literature :
and there are collections of flints, etc., from prehistoric periods.
All these matters, with a full summary and discussion of the histo-
rical, geographical and topographical notices, have received masterly
treatment and illustration in Sir Aurel Stein's personal narratives
and lectures and in the splendid folio volumes of his three official
reports, Ancient Khotan, Serindia, and Innermost Asia, with their
accompanying volumes of plates and portfolios of maps.

In the Lou-lan colony, which is once or twice mentioned asa
‘big town,’'® the interests and business were mainly Chinese; but
even there were certainly native officials’’ and other residents and
edifices of their religion, which was Buddhist. Elsewhere the Chinese
seem to have been merely individual trading parties’ or occasional
officials: in general the government and administration was native.
The predominant religion was Buddhism, and the religious archi-

7 In the year 676 A.D., on the occasion of the Emperor Kao-tsung’s
northern progress, Cer-cen received from the Chinese the new name (Sa-p’i)
Po-hsien; see L. Giles, BSOS., VI, p. 880.

8 See Yule’s Marco Polo, ed. H. Cordier, I, pp. 196-7,

9 See Stein, Serindia, p. 336.
48 F. W. THOMAS

tecture and art (both style and subjects) were in thorough conformity '
with the practice of the Indo-Hellenistic, ‘Gandhara,’ art of the

Indian north-western frontier regions: possibly in some cases of non-

traditional portraiture there may be features reflecting native phy-

siognomy.’® There are some remains of forts, Chinese, and, ata
late period, Tibetan.

It is in the writings’* that the conditions most clearly reveal
themselves. The materials and forms are for the most part of
Chinese origin, being oblong (those with Indian script in many cases
wedge-shaped) wooden slips, or squarer rectangles of wood or
leather, or pieces of silk or paper, folded when containing letters ;'°
but there are some few leaves or fragments in Indian form and
material, perhaps left’ by visitors in shrines. From Krorayina the
bulk (c. 1000 items) consists of Chinese documents, calendars, letters,
etc., with a relatively few fragments of literary works; here the
interest is almost exclusively Chinese, though there are references
to individual natives, in some cases officials, and foreigners of
various races. The relatively few documents in Indian Kharosthi
script and in an Indian Prakrit dialect are likewise concerned with
business. In the only other area of copious finds, namely the Niya
river region in the extreme west of the kingdom, the proportion
of Chinese to Indian is reversed: here the Indian items number about
700, while those in Chinese are some 10 or 12. These Indian pieces,

10 See infra, p.8. , 11 See Stein, Serindiu, p. 380.

12 In the Kharosthi documents from Cadota the ‘Chinese’ or individual
Qhinese are not infrequently mentioned (sce Professor Rapsou’s Index):
in no. 35 an arrival of traders from China is expected. ,

18 Sir A, Stein notes (Serindia, p. 507) a somi-Semitic appearance of
some faces in the Miran paintings. ) °

14 The Chinese documents from Krorayina and Cadota, the Stoin collec-
tion, are edited by Chavannes in Les Documents Chinois découverts par Aurel
Stein, (1913): some few also in Ancient Khotan, pp. 537-542. Others from
Krorayina, Hedin collection, are edited by Conrady in Die Chanesischen
Inschriften und sonstigen Kleinfunde Sven ‘Hedin in Lou-lan (1920). The
Kharosthi documents are edited in Kharasthi Inscriptions discovered by Sir
Aurel Stein—transcribed and edited by A.M. Boyer, E.J. Rapson and
E, Senart (and P.S. Noble) (1920-9): two small fragments are ‘included in
Conrady’s work, and some further dorumentts, trouvailles of Stein’s third
expedition, are edited by Dr. T. Burrow BSOS., 1X.

15 For studies of the forms and materials see Stein, Serindia, pp. 764-6,
and Conrady, op. cit., pp. 33-74. ,
YHE EARLY POPULATION OF LOU-LAN-SHAN-SHAN 49

rescripts, deeds, lists, accounts, letters, expose the administrative
working of the state, the occupations and, interests of the people
and the epistolary usage in official and private communications:
there are numerous directions for official procedures, records of
legal transactions, lists and accounts, some few reports of religious
concerns and a number of references to relations with foreign peoples,
notably that of Khotan.'® Very important linguistically are some
of the plentiful designations of office or function or -class and the
mass and system of personal names. The phraseology, legal and
other, including elaborate forms of address, is for the most part
idiomatically Indian.?’ This current use of Indian script and language.
by, say, 100 different writers, some of them quite minor officials,
shows that in the period, say c. 150-350 A. D., of the Kharogthi
documents the Indianization of the native life in Shan-shan was on
a level with that in the states of Indo-China, namely Campa, Fu-nan,
and Cambodia; equally with these Shan-shan may be regarded,
along with the other states of Chinese Turkestan, as a part of
‘Greater India’. As late as 400 A.D., the Buddhist pilgrim Fa-hsien
could write’® that—
‘The king of this country honours the law (of Buddha).
There are some 4000 priests (sc. monks), all of the Little
Vehicle belief. The laity and the Sramanas of this country
wholly practise the religion of India, only some are refined
and some coarse (in their observances). From this proceed-
ing westward, the countries passed through are all alike in
this respect, only the people differ in their language (Hu
words), The professed disciples of Buddha, however, all use
Indian books and the Indian language.’
Rapid acclimatization of a complete culture introduced from abroad
has, of course, many instances. In Shan-shan. as in the Indo-
Chinese countries, the earliest Indian influence may not have been
Buddhist, but there and in Chinese Turkestan generally it seems to
have become exclusively so. The strange fact that the early Chinese
histories at a time when Buddhism was known in China itself never
note anything Buddhist or Indian as existing in Turkestan exemplifies
a perhaps essential difference between the Chinese expansion and
the Indian, the former being political and well informed in practical

16 Cf. Acta Orientalia, XII, pp. 41-54. 17 Ibid., pp. 628.
18 See Beal, Buddhist Records of the Western World, I, p. xxiv; cf.
Legge’s translation of Fa-hsien, pp. 12-14.
0 F. W. THOMAS.

mtteney but indifferent to the psychology of the dominated or foreign
peoples *the latter propagandist and educative.

The ethnography of a long extinct population comprizing at the
earliest known period, as Lou-lan, only 1570 families. 14,100 indivi-
duals, and, subsequently, as Shan-shan, never perhaps reaching
50,000, may be considered of slight interest. But the matter has
wider bearings and raises questions in regard to the peopling of the
numerous other statelets of Turkestan. Moreover, it presents itself
in a relatively practical aspect which, being linguistic, may involve
distant and ancient connections. For the interpretation of the
mass of documents particularized above and for understanding the
culture and history a view of the ethnic character and language of
the people proves to be indispensable.

Here it should be premised that the expanded Shan-shan state
may not have been at first ethnically or linguistically uniform. The
territories acquired from about the middle of the Ist century A.D,,
may have been at a different level of culture; and the circumstance
that the mass of the records comes from those territories, when not
from the Chinese military colony, may mislead. It is, however,
clear from the excavations at Miran, where, or in which vicinity, was
- the capital of the original small state, that in course of time, at any
rate, things had evened out: and any discrimination, if such is to
be made, could come only at the end, not at the beginning, of the
inquiry. With a view to clarity, however, we may distinguish (1),
by the name Lou-lan, the original state, both before and after its
rebaptism by the Chinese, (2), by the name Shan-shan, the enlarged
kingdom, resulting from the expansions after c. 60 A.D., (3) by
the well-attested form Krorayina, the Chinese military colony of
Lou-lan, founded some years later than 119 A.D.

Concerning Lou-lan the Former Han Annals, compiled from
official records extending down to c. 25 A.D., states as follows”®

‘The soil is sandy and salt. There is accordingly little
tillage, and people are consequently dependent upon the agri-
culture of the adjoining kingdoms, whence it is sought to pro-
cure grain.

The kingdom produces jasper (jade), and there are there
abundance of reeds, tamarisks and willows, Katalpas [probably
a kind of poplar] and white herbage.

The people with their herds of cattle seek out the places
with water and vegetation. There are in the country asses and

19 See Wylie, op. cit., p. 25; De Groot, op. cit., p. 55.
THE EARLY POPULATION OF LOU-LAN-SHAN-SHAN 51

horses and many camels. People understand how to manu-
facture weapons, and these are similar to those of the Jo (D%a,
Ni)-ch'iang.’
This description of a semi-nomadic people, practising agriculture
only in a few places where the ground was not excessively sandy
or salt-impregnated does not preclude the existence of some ‘towns.’
The same account mentions strongholds and a capital, Yti-ni, resi-
dence of the king; also in the centre of the kingdom, in a fertile
area, a’‘town’ I-hsiin or I-hsiu, where in 77 B.C. the Chinese estab-
lished a military colony and subsequently maintained a ‘Commandant-
general: (tu-wei). Furthermore, there must always have been, as
Sir Aurel Stein cogently argues,” an important settlement in the
region of the modern Carkhlik, favoured by a relatively extensive
cultivable area and by its situation in regard to a probably ancient
tricle of communicatien with the Tsaidam and Koko-nor regions of
north-eastern ‘Tibet.’ Later we find it stated that here in Han times
was the actual capital, the real bearer of the name ‘Lou-lan.’*? '
We must here studiously avoid some much discussed topographi-
cal questions”’ relating to the three places and retain only the gene-
rally accepted identifications of (1) J-hsiin, or 1}-hsiu, with the place
known in Tibetan times as ‘Little Nob’ and with the Miran site,
(2) of Ch’i-t‘un, the place of the ‘Seven Military Colonies,’ as either
actually at l-hsiin or in its vicinity,”’ (3) Shih-ch‘éng, ‘Stone-town,’ .
mentioned in T’ang times as corresponding to the old Lou-lan town
with Carkhlik Hsiian-tsang’s Na-fu-po and the Tibetan ‘Great Nob.’
As to whether the original capital, Yii-ni, was actually at I-hsiin/I-
hsiu and not somewhat further north and ngarer to the Tarim embou-
chure into Lob-nor,”* whether the capital was ever in fact at Carkh-

20 Serindia, pp. 311-3, 475 n.

21 See Beal, op.cit., II, p. 325.

22 It may be sufficient to refer to Stein’s Serindia, pp. 320-3, 326-8, where
are references to discussions by Grenard, Chavannes, Herrmann and Pelliot:
add, however, the observations of Dr. L. Giles in BSOS, VI, pp. 828-830,

23 It is likely that ‘Seven military colonies’ involves an error and that
the site wag that of the original military oolony of 77 B.O.: see Pelliot,
Journal Asiatique, KI. vii (1916), p. 116. In JRAS., 1928, p. 590, 1934,
p. 96, it has been pointed out that Ch’i=t’un ig perhaps a corruption of
the native name, in Tibetan writing Se-toi and Rtse-thon, of a place where
was the royal residence of the subsequent Tu-yu (k)-hun rulers of Shamshan:
that place will have been adjacent to the capital, T’hsiin.

24 It seems possible that Yii-ni, stated apparently (see Stein, Serindia,
. §2 ft. W. THOMAS
lik or as named Lou-lan, we may suspend judgment. What is
certain is that Krorayina, though a ‘big town,’ and an important
Chinese station, was never the state capital.”*

The ruling persons in the state, listed in the Former Han Annals
according to its practice, were—

(1) J ‘Vassal-chief, support of the state’ (fu-kuo) ;

(2) 1 ‘Vassal-chief for repellkmg the Hu’ (i.e. in thia case, clearly,

Hsiung-nu barbarians);
(3) 1 ‘Commandant-general (tu-wei) for Shan-shan’ ;
(4) 1 ‘Commandant-general for war-measures against Chii-shih’;

(5) 1 ‘Right’ and ‘Left Ch’ieh-chii’ ; .
(6) | ‘Chief for war-measures against Chii-shih’ (‘Smite-Chii-shih
chief’);

(7) 2 ‘Head-Interpreters,’
This list, ethnographically not very instructive, may be historically
misleading. No. (3) is probably the above-mentioned Chinese ‘com-
mandant-general’ at I-hsiin/I-hsiu. No. (2) the commander against the
Hsiung-nu, paralleled in several others of the states, and nos. (4)
and (6), who operate against the more or less contiguous’state of
Chii-shih, are no doubt, of Chinese instigation, since in pre-Chinese
times the states did not resist the Hsiung-nu, and with Chii-shih,
except when it was codperating with the Hsiung-nu against the
Chinese, Lou-lan had no quarrel. The Chinese originals of the
titles have in general no specially local significance; but it is notice-
able that no. (1); who would be the king himself, honoured by
the Chinese with the title ‘Vassal-chief,’ has in his attribute, ‘support
of the state (fu-kuo),’ the original of the subsequent Prakrit-Kharo-
sthi expression raja-dharag’a=Sanskrit rdjyadhdraka. The ‘Head-
Interpreters,’ in Lou-lan and most of the other states, may have

p. 326), to be on the lake at the embouchure of the river, was rather in the
vicinity of the present fishing village of Abal, which has always been an
important place of passage for travellers and whence in modern times (Serindia,
pp. 849-850) Mirfin was recolonized.

25 In Kharosthi documents No 678 the ‘great town’ (mahamta nagara)
clearly is Krorayina; but elsewhere (nos. 5,155,250,296) there is an addition
of ‘at the king’s gate’ (rayadvarammi), and the reference must be to the
capital, known from positive statement (see L. Giles, op.cit., p. 829), as
well as from the above-noted occupation by An-chou’s expedition, to have
been at U’hsiin/I-hsiu. A glance at Sir A. Stein’s map suffices to show that
Krorayine, a Chinese junction settlement far away in the desert to the
north-east, can never have been the capital.
{HE EARLY POPULATION OF LOU-LAN-SHAN-SHAN 53.

‘resulted from diversities of language in Chinese Turkestan itself,
but may as well have been due to the development of the transit
trade. .

This single non-Chinese term ch‘ieh-chii, which previously (Acta
Orientalia, XIll, p. 75) has been equated to the cojhbo of the Kharo-
sthi documents may require reconsideration™® in view of its occurrence
at an earlier date as a Hsiung-nu offcial title. It might be a relic
of the domination Ly that people, unless it is merely an ancient ins-
tance, of the borrowing of titles (yabgu, khagan, tu-tugq, tegin, cigsi,
etc.) prevalent at later periods in Central Asia. For ‘Right’ and
‘Left’ a Hsiung-nu derivation would suggest the meanings ‘West’
and ‘East.’

Among the states in touch with Lou-lan the first place belongs
to that of Chii-shih, the Guchen-Turfan region of the easternmost
T’ien-shan. The two were certainly not contiguous, except in the
sense that there was nothing between: to the south of Chii-shih the
great Sho-na desert extended to the now absolutely barren Kuruk-
tagh range of mountains, south of which again the Lou-lan territory,
even if it extended so far to the north of the Tarim river, waa likewise
mainly desert, though probably less. desiccated and eroded than at
present.”” But communications over the Kuruk-taég were, as Sir
Aurel Stein has shown, more feasible than they now are; and their
actuality is proved by the fact that in the early period of Chinese
penetration Chii-shih and Lou-lan were always, in the fluctuations of
pressure from the Hsiung-nu and the Chinese, either acting together
on the one side or the other or driven into mutual conflict. The
actual first pretext for Chinese military intervention in Chii-shih
and Lou-lan was an accusation of the two states jointly as having
molested the early Chinese communications with the Western
Countries.”*

On the north-west there will have been some natural intercourse
with the line of statelets (Shan/Mo-shan=Singer?; Wei-li, on the
Konche river; Wei-hsii=Khorla) adjoining the ‘northern  route,’?*
the course of which was dictated by the reaches of the Kuruk and
Konche rivers on their way to join the Tarim, and which linked the

26 See infra, p. 32.

27 On the Sho-na desert and increased desiccation of the Kuruk-tagh and
the region to its south, see Serindia, pp. 707-8, 1155 n. 334, 407-8.

28 See Wylie, op.cit., pp. 25-7, De Groot, op.cit., pp. 55, 57.

29 Wylie, ep. cit., p. 101, De Groot, op. cit., pp. 154-5, 163-4, Stein,, Serindia,
pp. 333-4, 1230-2.

2
54 : F. W. THOMAS

countrygto’ Khorla (for Karashahr) and Kuca. In Chinese times it
was, of course, a great route. The western boundary of Lou-lan
consisted of the terminal. marshes of the Tarim and Cer-cen rivers,
behind which stretched the main extent of the impassable, central,
Taklamakan desert. South of the Cer-cen river the desert of c. 198
miles in width, which is the first stage of the ‘southern route,’ is, as
flanked by the river, not formidable.*° Near the southward bend
of the river was the comparatively large oasis of Calmada/Cer-cen,
which itself communicated with the northern statelets by a route
curving round the eastern part of the desert and skirting the Lou-lan
boundary.*?

Calmada the western neighbour of Louslan, was culturally a mid-
way point. In-the Former Han Annals the account of Shan-shan
ends with the statement that— ;

‘Shan-shan lies on the Han road [sc. the great southern
route]. Westward to Cer-cen is 720 li (c. 150 miles). From
Cer-cen onwards the five cereals are everywhere cultivated,
and soil and vegetation, animal-rearing, industries and war-
measures are like those in Han [China]. What is different
will be specified.’

That Calmada was not quite on a level of culture with the oasis
settlemente on the rivers further west, from which it was separated
by a broad space of difficult sand desert,”” appears from the remark
of the Buddhist envoy Sung-yiin, who concerning its population of
c. 100 (in Former Han times 230) families, says®® that—

‘They know not the use of oxen or ploughs in their husbandry.”
The above considerations would render intelligible the expansion of the
Lou-lan kingdom as far west as Calmada and would confirm a view,
if otherwise maintainable, that in the further westward extension
as far as the Niya river the state absorbed a population of a some-
what superior culture and possibly distinct race. But that is not
here propounded.

30 Particulars of route in Grenard, Mission Dutrewil de Rhins, II, °
p. 219; account of journey, Stein, NSerindia, pp. 304-6; Desert Cathay,
I, pp. 326 sqq.

31 On this route see Serindia, p. 420, Innermost Asia, p, 765.

32 See Beal, op.cit., JI, pp. 824-5, for Hsilan-tsang’s account: details
in Grenard, op.cit., ILI; pp. 918-9.

33 Beal, op. cit., 1, p. lxxxv, Chavannes, Julletin de Ecole Francaise
d’Hatréme-Orient, III, p. 391, :
THE EARLY POPULATION OF LOU-LAN-SHAN-SHAN BE:

On the east Lou-lan was separated from the Chinese border in
Kan-su, with its important military garrison town, Tun-huang/Sha-chou
and the smaller settlement of Shou-ch’ang (now. Nan-hu), some 80
li (c. 16 miles) further west, by the really formidable Kum desert,
which could well have constituted an ethnical barrier. There were,
however, two routes, very:long (c. 300 miles) and toilsome, ‘of com--
munication, the one following ‘partly the southern shore of Lop-nor
and ultimately reaching Tun-huang, the other, south of the desert,
winding rather high up round the slopes of the barren mountains
and descending to Shou-ch’ang/Nan-hu, where the river Tang ho
debouches, and so to Tun-huang/Sha-chou.**

The valley of the Tang-ho was, and is, a route from western Kan-su
over the great, snow-crowned, Altyn-tagh range of mountains to the
Tsaidam of north-eastern ‘Tibet,’ which was the main habitat of
the Jo (Déa-ch’iang) people who had also, as has been mentioned,
some fairly easy descents in the region of Carkhlik. The same people
was, as the Former Han Annals reports plainly from local informa-
tion at each point, regarded by the Turkestanis as furnishing the
population (which must have been extremely sparse) of the ‘Tibetan,’
southern, side not only of the Altyn-tagh, but of the whole great
mountain barrier, the Kuen-lun, at least as far west as the longitude
of Kkotan. But also on the. northern, Turkestan, side they were
found by the Chinese immediately to the west of the Yang barrier
at Shou-ch’ang (Nan-hu). It is denied that any groups of people on
the long mountain route to Carkhlik were likewise Jo (D%a)-ch’iang;
but at Carkhlik they extended even across the high road and they also
bordered on Calmada/Cer-cen and the mountain state of Hesiao-
wan, to the south thereof.°* This is not the limit: for according to
testimony which we need not here consider, since we are carefully
leaving out of sight the country west of Shan-shan, there were

34 On these routes and distances see Stein, Serindia, pp. 549 sqq.

35 These particulars concerning the Jo-ch’iang are mostly stated in the
main account: see Wylie, op.cit., p. 28, De Groot, op.cit., pp. 52-8, and
also Chavalnnes in J’oung-pao, II, vi (1905), pp. 526, m. 8 where the
statement concerning extension across the high road differs from the transla-
tion of De Groot. The fact of bordering on Cer-cen andits southern neighbour
may imply that the later Vashshahri, between Charkhlik and Cer-cen, was
originally a Jo-ch'iang station. The extension of the Jo-ch’iang along the
whole hinterland south of the mountains is displayed in old Chinese maps
also and in that accompanying Professor Herrmann’s Dig Seidenstrassen.
58 F. W. THOMAS

remnanjs of Ch'iang, if not of Jo(D%a)-ch’iang, people in the southern
mountains even as far west as the Karakoram and the Pamir.

The general upshot is that there was one only people, namely
the Jo(D%a)-ch’iang, known to have been in any close contact with
the Lou-lan population, and that this contact existed along the whole
southern border of the state and was in part intimate. If we were
inclined to suppose an ethnical affinity between the two long extinct
peoples, objection on the ground of physical type is obviously in-
applicable. Even should we find in the ancient hunter temporarily
exhumed by Sir Aurel Stein in the far north of the Krorayina region
and photographed and discussed in Innermost Asia, pp. 264-6, photo-
graph 173, a Lou-lan physical type, neither his physiognomy nor the
mode of burial would be inconsistent with a Ch’iang affinity. Among
the Tibetan-speaking people of north-eastern ‘Tibet’ the physical
type, is, as Mr. Joyce has suspected,*® not that commonly recognized
as ‘Tibetan’; and the same may be said concerning peoples of eastern
Tibet and other Tibeto-Burmans of the Sino-Tibetan borderlands.
This is attested by statements of travellers, who refer to aquilinity
of nose, straight eyes, absence of the ‘Mongol fold’ or prominent
cheekbones, and in some cases exceptionally tall stature.*’ Con-
cerning the mode of burial also something might be adduced.

Nevertheless, the fact that the Chinese evidently regard the Lou-
lan people, despite similarity of culture and actual intercourse, as
distinct from the Jo(D%a)-ch’iang is not negligible; and that the
Ch'iang, like the Tibetans, were people of the mountains and high
plateaux, whereas the Lou-lan people belonged to the plains, may
have an ethnical significance. Hence a solution of the problem not
to be found in the geographical and historical situation, must be
sought in the written indications and the language. A systematic
study of the material could not yet be contemplated: but we may
consider some relevant particulars.

1. The territorial system and the general administration
From the numerous communications addressed in the king’s name
to administrators in Cadota, whence comes the bulk of the Prakrit
material,—with one or two, of similar tenour, from Krorayina—it
is evident that the central authority exercised a close control and

36 See Serindia, p. 1361 (4).

387 See Przevalsky, Mongolia (trans, E.D. Morgan), II, p. 110, Rockhill,
Journey through Mongolia, etc., p. 234, Land of the Lamas, p. 74, Bonvalot,
Across Tibet (trans.), I, p. 80, II, pp. 8, 97.
THE EARLY POPULATION OF LOU-LAN-SHAN-SHAN («CT

frequently interposed even in minor matters: the system was not
feudal or federal. Nevertheless a trace of prior local independence
may be detected in the use of the term rdajya, ‘kingly rule.’ ‘kingdom.’
in the sense of ‘administration,’ ‘sphere of administration.” Thus
in no. 272, a royal rescript to a cojhbo posted in Cadota, we And the
expressions tusya rajiye “in your (singular) kingdom (se. administra-
tion province),’ and tumahu rajammi, ‘in your (plural) kingdom,’ the
latter recurring also in no. 229 and perhaps again in no. j09. Ana-

logous phrases are—~ :
adehi rajade, ‘from the there (=where you are) kingdom (nos. 164,

223)

tatremi rajammi, ‘in that same kingdom’ (no. 40)

Cadota-raja, ‘the Cadota kingdom,’ (no. 415).
In a number of instances it becomes accordingly disputable whether
raja and rajya (=Sanskrit rdjya) unspecified denote the Shan-shan
kingdom as a whole or a particular province; and a, partly analogous
doubt may arise in regard to the use of the adjective rayaka, ‘royal.’
The alternative is explicit in—

bahi rajade rajarajade, ‘from outside administration(s) [and]

from kingdom (sc. central) administration(s)’ (No. 714)
where the context precludes the renderings ‘foreign’ and ‘home.’
In ro. 31 para raja may’ signify not ‘foreign kingdom,’ but merely
‘other province.’ In accord with this use of raja (rdjya) the provin-
cial heads of administrations are entitled rajadharaga, ‘kingdom (or |
rule)-holding,’ a rendering, as we have seen, of the Chinese fu-kuo;
and matters and persons connected with the administration are rajad-
(dh)areya (Sanskrit réjyadhdreya?): examples—

rajadaraga mahatva, ‘administrative heads’ (no. 120);

rajadareya mahatva, id. (ne. 582. cf. no. 637);

yam kalammi tuo cojhbo Tamjaka rajadhdraga hudesi, ‘at what

time you, cojhbo Tamjaka, were (or became) administration-

‘holder’ (no. 625).

If it should be suggested (as in Acta Orientalia, XIII, p. 45) that
this use of the term rdjya, ‘kingly rule,’ was a survival from the
period when Cadota was an independent state, that would perhaps
not conflict with the sense of the word cojhbo, which does not seem
to have connoted any special function. This appears from the use
of the plural in application to two persons of whom the second was
probably not a cojhbo in any technical sense: we find, e.g.—

cojhboana Kranaya Lpipeyasa ca (no. 88) -
cojhboana Yitaka Vuktosa ca (no. 576).
68 F. W. THOMAS

But in addresses—

*ojhbo Kranaya sothamgha Lpipeyasa ca (nos. 19, etc.)

s cojhbo Yitaka tomga Vuktosa ca (nos. 3, etc.)
Lpipeya is not styled cojhbo and has the distinct official designation
sothamgha, and similarly Vukto is not a cojhbo, but a tomga. It is
to be inferred that coihbo was a title, not of office, but of dignity,
‘my lond’ rather than ‘governor,’ and so could be applied to high
officials generally. If so, the usage is markedly similar to that of
jo-co, jo-bo, co-jo, and the apparently equivalent rtse-rje, ‘head
chief,’ in the same country some c. 400 years later, namely in letters
to Tibetan officials. The persons are sometimes addressed with
definite titles, ‘Councillor,’ ‘Home Minister,’ etc., only, but some-
times with jo- Co, etc., either preceding these or in substitution for
them. |

It is, however, certain that the local cojhbo’s or ‘great cojhbo’s'
(no. 585, maha-cojhbo) did not hold office by virtue of hereditary
relation to originally independent chiefs: they were appointees of
the central government—

ekisya etasa raja picavidemi

‘to him (cojhbo Somjaka) singly | have committed the ad-

ministration’ (No. 272)
and the phrase vargavarsi rajadhadreyand, ‘year-by-year administra-
tors’, (No. 637) may indicate that in theory the ppPoiniment were
for a single year.

Furthermore, in addresses and also in other lists the cojhbo is
sometimes preceded by other ranks, which therefore are of higher
consideration. In joint addresses Kori Viryavamta (nos. 40, 64) and
Cuvalayina Malbhuta (no. 55) are so preferred: and elsewhere a like
precedence is accorded to Kori Rutraya (no. 49), K. Togaja (no. 570),
Cuvalayina Pumfiavamta (no. 517), and c. Tiraphara (nos. 582, 732),
sometimes along with ogu’s, camkura’s, gugura’s, etc., who obvious-
ly belong to the central regime. The Kori’s (pl. in no. 692) and
Cuvalayina’s are therefore superior ranks in their local residence,
the latter, but probably not also the former, term, connoting certain
functions.

A frequently mentioned subdivision is the ‘hundred’ (Sata), noted
in the edition (Index) with reference to Sir A. Stein’s Serindia,
p. 65, where attention has been drawn to Colonel Trotter’s account
of the three sad's of Wakhan, which are administrative divisions,
each of 100 houses.** In Shan-shan the ‘hundreds’ attested in Kro-

88 See Forsyth, Mission to Yarkund, p. 276.
THE EARLY POPULATION OF LOU-LAN-SHAN-SHAN 59°

rayina as well as in Cadota, are uniformly mentioned as ‘X's sata’;
and Dr. Burrow (The Language......, pp. 97, 124-5) has satisfactorily
explained the Prakrit appellation ‘Satavita (Sanskrit equivalent un-
ascertained), as denoting the person in charge of a fata; the daga-
vita, frequently mentioned in connection with Satas, but‘also else-
where in obvious connection with ‘10,’° he equally well explains as
one in charge of a ‘Ten,’ and inno. 170, unless dasammi is a mia-
take for Sadammi, the ‘Ten,’ itself is cited.

To what do these numbers refer? In Tibetan Literary Texts
and Documents, |, pp. 282 sqq.. and previously in J.R.A.S., 1928,
p- 563, 1934, pp. 96-7, the Tibetan system of ‘thousand-districts,’
(ston-sde) under ‘thousand-commanders’ (ston-dpon), also ‘10,000
districts,’ has been described and shown to have existed during Tibe-
tan times in the Western Kan-su also and the Shan-shan area. But
the matter has much wider bearings: it may be said that a system
of ‘thousands,’ ‘hundreds,’ etc., existed among most of the ‘barbarian’
peoples of Central Asia with which the Chinese came successively
into contact. The earliest recorded example is that of the Hsiung-
nu, c. 200 B.C,, with their 24 commanders of 10,000, who severally
appointed their own commanders of 1,000’s, 100’s and 10’s. The
Sien-pi Tu-yu{k]-hun had commanders of 1!000’s and 100’s. One of
the Pamir states has inherited from Turk times an official hierarchy
of mingbashi, yazbashi, onbdashi, which, however, may be the ordi-
nary military ranks.** .

The unit may have varied from case to case, being in the case
of nomads tents, elsewhere houses, in both cases households or
families. That in the states of Chinese Turkestan some such system
prevailed during the earliest recorded period is evident from the
statistics of families and persons given in the Former Han Annals,
the number of persons being commonly an exact multiple, oftenest
by 7, sometimes by 6 or 8, of the number of families, and accordingly
an estimate. The number primarily known to the Government
was therefore that of households: and the like will have been the
case in Shan-Shan. In Acta Orientalia, XIII. pp. 52-4, it has been
proposed to understand the appellation tomgha in the Prakrit docu-
ments as equivalent to the (non-Tibetan) stom-gyan of the Tibetan
and meaning ‘thousand-man’, which would yield a likely etymology
of tom, stom, = Tibetan ston, ‘1000’, Tokhari tmadm, ‘10,000’,
Tibeto-Burman Hsi-hsia tu. ‘1000’, Turk toman, ‘10,000’. This would
harmonize with the fact that in no. 96 are mentioned 9 tomghas at

89 Ibid., p. 99.
60 : _ F. W. THOMAS

Cadota, six of them as supplying c. 20 men each: also the tomghas,
who in the small states will not have been very numerous, were
sufficiently important for one or other of them (e.g. Vukto in nos. i,
23, 28, etc.) to be sometimes addressed in royal missives along with
the cojhbo and to have subordinates (vathayaga. nos. 357, 387, 622).

With the ‘hundreds’ are associated ‘districts’ (prateja, etc. =
Sanskrit pradesa), prevalently (e.g. in nos. 41, 173) in such a way
that in lists of things or persons in, or from, a number of ‘hundreds’
one pradesa, sometimes two, but usually -a relatively small number
of pradegas, is included, being on the average level of a single
‘hundred’ in respect of the number or quantity of the items mentioned
as in, or from, them. Elsewhere pradesas occur in their own lists.
There seems to be no instance of a ‘district’ containing a ‘hundred’;
but frequently persons in charge of ‘tens’ are mentioned. It follows
that the ‘districts’ were outside the ‘hundreds’; and since the latter
will obviously belong to the more thickly populated town-areas, it
follows.that the districts were sub-urban, or country, areas. with
sparser population. They are nearly always cited as ‘X’s pradesa,
where X, in one or two instances indentifiable with a tomgha X,
may be rather an official than a landowner. Possibly however, the
contrary is to be inferred from the frequent association of vasus
with avana’s and kilme’s.

As explained in Acta Orientalia, XII, pp. 63-4, the avona’s,
avana’s (Sanskrit Gpana), were ‘markets’, being villages usually almost
entirely uninhabited except on market-days, a feature still widely
characteristic of Chinese Turkestan, and also of Kan-su and other
parts of China.*° That there was no Turkestan word avana meaning
simply ‘village’ has been proved elsewhere. The special character
of the avana’s is manifested by their appellations which predomin-
antly refer to their chief trafic, e.g. Yave-avana, (grain) ‘barley-
market’, ajiyama (ajima)-avana, ‘butter etc. (Sanskrit djya)-market’,
trasa-avana, ‘live-animals (Sanskrit trasa)-market’, and perhaps peta-
avana, ‘sheep (Sanskrit petvan)-market’: similarly in India we have
‘edibles-market’, ‘garland-market’ (bhaksya-malya*dpana). It cannot,

40 For a lively description see Forsyth, ibid., pp. 62-3: in greater bre-
vity we read (p. 254), ‘nearly all the villages I have seen in East Turkestan,
gonsisting of a number of small hamlets, -scattered about the plain. Each
hamlet consists of a number of scattered farmhouses. In a central position
is the bazar, with long rows of stalls on both sides of the road, somewhat
resembling that of an Indian village, but absolutely untenanted except on
the weekly market-day.’
THE EARLY POPULATION OF LOU-LAN-SHAN-SHAN 61

however, be proved from’ the documents that the avana’s were in
practice restricted to any particular products, nor was it to be
expected that they should be so. Nor could cultivation in the
vicinity of the avana’s be unusual; and in fact the distribution of
tillage in connection with them is several times pointendly in question,
the best example being in no. 713, where a certain Vasu i is accused
of holding up lands in the ajima-avana.

The kilmi’s or kiime’s (Adjective kilmici, kilmeci, kilmemcei,
‘person of a kilmi, kilme’) and the persons belonging to them are
normally (e.g. nos. 16, 32, 254, 279, 297, 393, 422, 431-2, 468, 474,
495, 581, 621-2) connected with avana’s, But sometimes the kilme’s
(nos. 256, 358, 482) or kilmeci are mentioned as belonging to some
individual, usually an important person (in no. 38 a head of a monas-
tery, vihdara-pala); and in one instance (no. 374) a distinction is
made between the tax paid from the rdéjya (sc. the public lands, etc.)
and that from the kilmeci’s. It might therefore be that the kilmeci’s
were serfs of rich men, working on their local estates; and certainly in
connection with farmlands (nos. 713, 734), winecrops (nos. 358, 431)
and sheep or cattle (no. 519). Some speciality is indicated by the
statement that men do duty in the ‘hundred,’ women in the kilme—

purusa jamma satammi dharma karemti, striyana*! kilmi dharma
karemti (no. 46)
Furthermore, we find (nos. 165, 211, 714) the expression ‘vega (vega)-
kilmi women,’ and (no. 481) ‘vega-kilme duty (dharma)’ on the part
of a woman. It has been suggested (Acta Orientalia, XIII, p. 63)
‘that the vega-kilme work was connected with irrigation, but that
depends upon an etymology.

No help is afforded by deriving kilme (Dr. Burrow, JRAS., 1935,
pp- 673-5) from the ‘Tokhari’ word kdlyme, taken in the sense of
‘district.’ Not to mention that kdlyme is attested at a date some
c- 400-500 years later than kilme, its meaning is not ‘district’ (Sans-
krit dega), but ‘point of the compass’ (Sanskrit di§), in which sense
it constanty recurs, so that, but for a suitable etymology propounded
by the editors,*? it might be suspected of being a loan-word=Greek
klima in its geographical sense. The fact that the kilme-people were
freely moved about (no. 639) and that they were so often depen-
dants of important persons at the centre, e.g. Kala (prince) Pumfia-
bala (no. 331), K. Kupsuda (no. 307), Ogu (noble) Pumfiayaga (no.

41 Irregular syntax, not unexampled.
42 Tocharische Grammatik, by BE. Sieg and W. Siegling in conjunction
with W. Schulze, §4, b.

3
62 '  o#. W. THOMAS

209), @. Aéoga (nos. 254, 621), O. Viharavala (no. 393), O. Ajhuraka
(no. 639), O. Bhimasena (no. 734), and the fact that the kilme’s them-
selves were so often attached to avana’s suggest that the kilme’s
were not permanent establishments at all, but encampments of re-
tainers of great men sent out for profitable, seasonal. employment
as cultivators, harvesters, gleaners, and for other work (in no. 621
a kilmeci is a potter, kulala): the case of the chun- -pa’s, ‘field work-

ers,’ etc., in Tibetan times may have been similar.

Many of the documents are concerned with palpi and the remit-
ting of it to the central government: the term covers a variety of
objects, such as animals (camels, etc.), corn, ghee, textiles, camdri-
kammamta, etc., and there are several references to palpi-dharma,
‘the (customary) law of palpi’. That nie was equivalent to ‘tax’
was stated in Acta Orientalia XIII, pp. 46, 62-3, and the same mean-
ing was adopted by Dr. Burrow** with a revised transcription palyi
in place of the editors’ palpi. Dr. Burrow was thus able to make
out a case for identifying the word with Sanskrit bali, the p being
attributed to local pronunciation: and this view, which certainly
+s recommended by the lack, down to the present, of any suitable
alternative, was shared by Professor Liiders,** who, however, has
since,*® by identifying the word with the pali (chin[n}a) of the
Mathura Lion Capital Inscription of much earlier date, virtually
renounced the proposed explanation of the p. However, the mean-

ing is sure.
The fact that in no. 714, as noted i in Acta Orientalia, XII], pp. 5-6

and n. 2, three classes of persons, namely Vasu's or Vasu's;
Ageta’s and Yatma’s, from all the provinces are required to repair
annually to court for inquiry into the taxation law groups the three
classes as interested in taxation. The understanding of the Vasu’s
or Vasu’s as landowners, or at least persons of considerable standing,
is clear in general from the manner of their precedence and also
from particular references: for instance, in no. 25 a Vasu is
addressed by Kala (Prince) Kunala, in no. 622 by Kala (Prince)
Pumfiabala, and in no. 393 Kori Rutraya, who usually is of higher’
consideration than a cojbho, is ‘Vasu K. R.” Moreover, in a majority
of instances where a particular Vasu is concerned the matter
relates to transactions in some avana, = village as defined. It is
therefore probable that Vasu was landlord, or other head, of a

43 JRAS. 1935, p. 675; cf. p. 670.
44 BSOS., VIII, pp. 6387, sqq.
a6 Acta Orientaha, XVIII (1939), p. 16.
THE EARLY POPULATION OF LOU-LAN-SHAN-SHAN 68

‘village: without immediate etymological implication we may
compare the term Spa, applied in Tibetan times to local magnates
in the Khotan region.*® Of the yatma we can say for certain that
he wae concerned with corn (nos. 146, 349, 430, 439), its collection
into store-houses (dranga, no. 272), and its despatch (nos. 305, 307);
but he aleo collects and conveys other dues (palpi, nos. 275;
374), and is mentioned, moreover, (nos. 23, 546),‘ as despatching
camels. The ageta, since he is often vasu-ageta or yatma-ageta and
seems to partake of the functions of the Vasu or Yatma, may have
been in either case the ‘subordinate,’ ‘deputy’ or ‘agent’: his
title may be the native equivalent of the Prakrit vathayaga (Sanskrit
upasthayaka), the name of an official who, like the ageta, is sometimes
mentioned along with his employer (Aya Ridhagenaga v.; no. 419,
Kitsaitsasa v., no. 579, raya v., no. 576, tomgha v., no. 622) and
sometimes (e.g. nos. 189, 581, 637) without such specification.

The only other local official needing mention may be the
sothamgha. That this officer was primarily in charge of a dramga,
‘granary,’ ‘store,’ etc,, is evident in nos. 272, 520, 567, and has been
stated in Acta Orientalia, XII, p. 45 n. 2, XIII, p. 62; but he seems
also to have controlled the supply of camels for travel and transport.
The etymology of the word as mentioned in the edition (Index) cannot
be maintained: as pointed out by Professor Bailey (B.S.O.S., VIIL,
p. 905), the word must certainly be connected with ‘Tokhari’ s0s-
tanka, denoting some officials who are not mininisters (amdtya). If
related to Sanskrit grug, Srusti, érausti, ‘obey,’ ‘obedience,’ ‘obedient,’
it implies merely loyal service, and has no special significance in
regard to Shan-shan. In case the personal name Srustinga (no. 593)

46 A Saka-Khotani spelling spaita, understood as=spidapati, ‘army-com.
mander,’ seems to have led Professor Bailey, BSOS. VIII (1935-7), pp. 954-6,
to attribute to spa a military signification and to translate spata by ‘General.’
Whether a form spata would have been practically possible in use as ‘a
drivative of spddapati a non-Iranist could hardly consider. But one may
ask why, if the ¢ is real, it is not written #tP? If it is what Leumann
called the hiatus-removing ¢, which is in fact the case as regards the spdta
cited by Professor Konow in Saka Studies, p. 182- (see the Hoernle document
there cited and the accompanying Plate), why should not spata be one of
the fanciful Saka-Khotani spellings and represent merely spa? This is
suggested by the fact that nothing military appears in the Tibetan contexts
where spa occurs and, far more decidedly, by the Tibetan translation of spd
cited by Professor Bailey. Sdesdpon is not a military term: it regularly de-
notes the civil head of a district.
64 F, W. THOMAS

Od

belong’ to the group the dental ¢ might point to a co-operation of the
lranian (Zend) equivalents sraosha, ‘obedience,’ asrushti, ‘disobedi-
ence.” It is, however, not certain that the initial s of sothamgha
is derived from ér, and the definite charater of the sofhamgha’s func-
tions is adverse.

Il, Material Objects and Animals

There have been ingenious and fruitful studies of unfamiliar terms
in the Prakrit denoting such things as agricultural and other country
products and procedures, textiles, articles of dress, weapons and
other fabricated goods, measures and weights, legal, epistolary- and
other usages and .expressions. From the nature of the case the
success consists in tracing the terms to Indian, Iranian and other
outside sources, and the things themselves may practically all belong
to an imported culture, at least as regards Lou-lan. Native terms,
if any, would be problematic. ‘

We might expect to find native, or at least local, names for the
jasper (jade), reeds, tamarisks, willows, Katalpas and white herbage
credited to Lou-lan in the Former Han Annals. But such have
not been found. It may be suspected indeed that the word hagga,
which in no. 297 denotes something that should be forwarded
to the king and the giving out of which is, as also in no. 751,
an offence, and a_ gift of which is in wo. 542 a subject of
accusation, should be the precious jade, jaspis, in Chinese yi.
In the Turki form kash the name of the stone is borne by the Khotan
rivers Karakash and Yurungkash: allied forms are known in Mongol,
etc., and others possibly connected are found even in ancient Hebrew,
Greek iaspis, etc.*’ It follows from this that hasga, even if current
in Shan-shan, may have been not native in Shan-shan, but imported in
the Prakrit. -The expression cdmdri-kammamita (nos. 272, 714), taken
in Acta Orientalia, XII, p. 46 n. 3. as signifying jade, consists of two
words, in Sanskrit, cdndri and karmdnta (with loss of r. due to dissi-
milation from the preceding syllable, dri), meaning respectively ‘moon-
light’ and ‘working,’ the latter the regular term, in the Kautaliya-
ArthaSdstra and elsewhere, for industrial operations. The reference
to jade is not a speculation, but is based, as was alleged, upon the
unchallengeable Chinese statement regarding Khotan that— __

47 On jade in China and its names soe Abel-Rémusat, Histoire de la ville
de Khotan, pp. 199-240, esp. pp. 124.132; Yule-Cordier Marco polo, I, p. 198.
Dr, Laufer’s Jade (1912) is not largely linguistic,
THE EARLY POPULATION OF LOU-LAN-SHAN-SHAN 65

‘there is there a river [containing] jade. The people of
the country watch‘during the night the spots where the réflection
of the moon is intense and do not fail to find there fine jade.’

The names of the common animals, ox, sheep, horse, ass, ‘dog,
etc., are all Prakrit, ior at least Indo-lranian, and’accordingly un-
instructive. Even the camel, native in Lou-lan and in the wild state
still found in the Kum desert andyghe high Altyn-tagh valleys, is
always given his Piakrit name (uta, utha), never even an Iranian form,
Some obscure epithets are found applied to the camel, among which
akra(or kla, kta)tsa or amk’, also (in no. 590) akra(kla, kta) simply,
is equated by Dr. Burrow (JRAS, 1935, p. 67’, The Language...,
pp- 71, 106), to a ‘Tokhari’ word dGknats, akndtsa, meaning ‘un-
knowing’, ‘stupid’. It does, indeed, seem more than possible that
the -isa is indentic with the ‘Tokhari’ Adjectival suffix -ts -ats, etc;
but it may be suspected that that suffix is itself, like the -ci and -si of
group-flexion, derived from a substrate speech. As regards the
particular instance, the reading of which is, ag appears, difficult*®,
it may be noted that the ‘Tokhari’ word itself requires explanation:
the further form agiltsa (no, 422), which Dr. Burrow regards as a
variant of akratsa, we might be tempted to interpret as its opposite,
connecting it with ‘Tokhari’ aklye, ‘tradition’‘ ‘learning’. A third
similar epithet is the pungebha (°tsa) of the edition*?®.

Dr. Burrow's ingenious suggestion (The Language...., p. 119) that
in no. {98 the clause printed in the edition as kopi varaga syati and
translated in Acta Orientalia, XIII, p.61, ‘whatever be his turn’,
should read ko pivaraga syati and be translated ‘whichever is fat’
cannot be said to have been favoured by fortune. It is true that
varaga and pivaraga run level in so far that both recur once only
(varaga, no. 667, pivarae, no. 358), each with reference to camels.
But the vara, i.e. presumably ‘turn of usage’. of a camel is so essential
that in no. 73 the compound word utavara occurs (several times),

48 But Klu is the best reading; see Rapson, p. 318 of the edition.

49 These and other terms relating to camels are discussed by Professor
Liiders in BSOS, VII, pp..647-651. The rare syllable read as kla recurs in
the term klasemci, which is always used, as Dr. Burrow points out (The
Language...,p. 85), to denote a person connected with camels. It seems
possible that kla is actually the native word for ‘camel,’ and is related to
Chinese lo, (Karlgren, Analytical Dictionary, No. 441, lak) ‘camel, the
phonetic of which involves, according to Karlgren, an archaic kl or gil-
Klasemci might then mean ‘camel-station (sa).man.’ On Hoei-hsia lari-nda
and othor names for ‘camel’, soe Laufer in T’owng-pao, 1916, pp. 20-2.
6, . F. W. THOMAS

*

while i##no. 72 there is a long list. of oxen twice or thrice (dvi-vara,
tre-vara) supplied (or déspatched?) with water.

Il. High official or social appellations

Under the Maharaja, and in general residing at the centre, were
various Classes of persons obviously high in government or social
status, kala, gugura, camkura, ogu, kitsaitsa (°satsa, °sayitsa), suvetha,
tasuca; others are doubtful, as to whether gentile surnames or
titles or occur also, or mainly, locally, e.g. apsu. Among these
we might certainly expect to find real Lou-lan expressions; but the
frequent borrowing of titles in Central Aeia, as elsewhere, introduces
a doubt. Suvetha, spetha, has a Prakrit-like appearance and might
be=Sanskrit svista, svesta quasi ‘our well-beloved’, and_ kala,
‘prince’, and gugura, may have been brought from the Indian north-
western frontier. Camkura. ‘mayor’, and ogu clearly belong to
Chinese Turkestan, the former being known also in connection with
Khotan Buddhism. The import of several of the terms is discussed
in Acta Orientalia, XIII, pp. 72-8.

Dr. Burrow’s explanation (op. cit., p. 82), of kitsaitsa as perhaps
connected with ‘Tokhari’ ktsaitsafie, ‘age’, and meaning ‘elder,’ i.e.
‘member of a sort of council of elders’, seems commendable, and the
tsa might be the same Adjectival suffix asin ckratsa. But evidently
this group of. titles awaits explanation from the language rather than
vice versa,

IV. Names of the country and people

~

The name Shan-shan substituted for Lou-lan by the Chinese
in 77 B.C., was maintained by them: it is used in the Han (Former
and Later) Annals, in the Wei-luo, and elsewhere, and locally some
Chinese documents (see the edition, p. 325) mention the ‘king of
Shan-shan’ and the ‘command of Shan-shan.’ But it does not
follow that the name was adopted by the natives.

In the Prakrit (nos. 678, 696, 706) Kroraina, °rayina, certainly
denotes the town of the Chinese colony of Lou-lan: in no. 678 the
Kroraimci Camaka, though residing in Calmadana (Cer-cen), is
seen from the circumstances to have belonged to the same town; and
similarly in no. 370 the Kroraimci people who have fled ‘there’,
sc. to Cadota, from the domain of the Ogu Alpaya will have been of
that town. Hence the Kroraimci people who occupy a district
(pradega) in Cadota (no. 277) are residents from outside ; and this
is confirmed by the fact that the only other district cited not by the
name of an individual official or owner. but of a plurality, namely
THE EARLY POPULATION OF LOU-LAN-SHAN-SHAN 87

that of the Vurcugas, was probably likewise a settlement of outsiders.
Hence any designation of ‘a man of Lou-lan’ or ‘a man of Shan
shan’ has to be discovered.

It may be noted that, though in Chinese the name of the new
colony, Lou-lan, was identical with that of the ancient state, it does
not follow that in the native language, if of a different type, the case
was exactly similar. Italica is not identical with Italia, nor Hellanion
with Hellas, nor Phocaea with Phocis. In Krorayina the -na or -ina has
the appearance of a suffix, as in Calmadana=Calmada, If the
original name of the country was Krorara or Krorar, it would equally
have appeared in early Chinese as Lou-lan.

The surname Korara, prefixed jn the Kharosthi Prakrit to the
names of Rutraya, Sugita, and Cakvala (see Index), can easily be
one of those place(or race)-surnames which were common in
Central Asia: in the documents we have Cadota Kupgu (no. {59),
and such surnames were often used (e.g. Cugapa. Parvata) as the
principal name (possibly a politeness). The. Adjectival forms in -i,
such as Cadoti, Parvati, Khotani, are to be suspected of being due
to the Prakrit, which did not favour the simple place-name in
such usage.

Accordingly Korara Rutraya may be ‘Rutraya of Korara’, sc. of
Krorera=Lou-lan. But why is a man surnamed after his country
even on occasions when there is no need to distinguish him from
a namesake? A simple and satisfactory answer is that he is not
a native, but an outsider, in the community where he is functioning.
In Cadota, Rutraya is registered as Korara, because he is a man of
an outside region, viz. the old Lou-lan state. But there is another
Rutraya, who in royal rescripts to Cadota is often addressed as
Kori, with precedence over the local cojhbo, and who may very
well be the Vasu Kori Rutraya of no. 393. A Kori Viryavamta has
similar precedence in other documents. A Kori Sujada in no. 355
seems to be at court; in no. 570 Kori Togaja, at court, is mentioned
between Ogu’s and a cojhbo; concerning Kori Spalpaya of no. 579
nothing is to be said; but Kori Bhimaya in no. 704, and Kori Muldeya
in no. 706 are addressed by the king, at Krorayina, in high company 3
the plural: Koriyana (no. 692, at Krorayina) is merely on the outside
of a covering-tablet. If Korara Rutraya is, as the occurrences
suggest, merely an ordinary person from Lou-lan, then Kori Rutraya
is something far more distinguished, uamely a noble, representative
of the K[rlora race.

As has previously (The Ganganath Tha Commemoration Volume
pp: 421- -5) been pointed out, a Kora people is requisite for the
68 F. W. THOMAS

explanation of the name of Ptolemy's (VI, 16, §§ 2,5, 8) ‘Ottoro-
‘Rerrhai’ mountains, where were the source of the Bautisos, sc. the
Cer-cen river, and the town ‘Ottorokorrha’. The, evidently Indian.
identification with the legendary country of the Uttara-Kurus can
be explained only by the preexistence of a local name resembling
Kuru. Of course, it cannot be affirmed that this Kora was for Krora;
but, if not, the Koras were certainly the near neighbours of Krorara.

Mention should also be made of Lung-lo, Lung-le, the original
name of ‘the district of Shou-ch‘ang, known in Saka-Khotani as
Sucamni, sc. the modern district of Nan-hu. This being the eastern
neighbour of Lou-lan and evidently in communication therewith,
its resemblance in (tribal or racial?) name may not be accidental.

V. The Language

In Indo-China the native languages came ultimately to be used
in writing, so that of the Cam and Cambodian, for instance, we now
possess a full knowledge and large dictionaries. In the case of the
Lou-lan and Shan-shan language, or languages, this did not occur.
For administrative and general use in writing the Prakrit may have
been replaced under the Tu-yu[k]-hun domination by the Chinese,
which was succeeded by the Tibetan; and perhaps no sentence
of the native language was ever written. The available material
consists merely of individual words incorporated in the Prakrit, with
perhaps one or two in Tibetan, The paucity of euch words has
already become manifest: and a further scrutiny may fail to dis-
cover in the Kharosthi documents any native terms for ‘god,’ ‘sky,’
‘sun,’ ‘moon,’ ‘earth,’ ‘water,’ ‘fire,’ ‘wind,’ ‘mountain,’ ‘sand,’
‘“desert,’ ‘lake,’ ‘river’; for ‘camel,’ ‘ass,’ ‘wheat,’ ‘barley,’ ‘millet,’
‘gold’; for ‘king.’ ‘queen,’ ‘man,’ ‘woman,’ ‘child,’ ‘town,’ ‘house,’
‘husband,’ ‘wife,’ ‘law,’ ‘custom,; for ‘body,’ ‘hand,’ ‘head,’ ‘foot,’
etc.; or for any pronoun or numeral. In these circumstances the
etymologizing of words apparently foreign to the Prakrit and so
presumably native becomes, except where the words are clearly
traceable to some other known language of suitable date and proxi-
mity, an operation in vacuo. At one period there was a tendency,
based perhaps jointly upon finds, in the Khotan region, of docu-
ments in an Iranian language and upon Mr. Joyce’s anthropometri-
cal study, to view the ancient population and speech, both of the
Khotan and of the districts further east along the southern route,
as of Iranian affinity. In 1925, Asia Major, Il, pp. 251-271, and
subsequently elsewhere, was adduced evidence, consisting of Proper
Names, local and personal, cited in literary texts, indicating an ori-
THE EARLY POPULATION OF LOU-LAN-SHAN-SHAN 6u

‘

‘ginal non-lranian, apparently Tibeto-Burman, language, predecessor
of the Iranian in Khotan. In 1926 a paper entitled Names of Places
and Persons in Ancient Khotan dealt somewhat systematically with
the names made available by the publication (1920) of Part I of
Kharosthi Inscriptions discovered by Sir Aurel Stein in Chinese Tur-
kestan by A. M. Boyer, E, J. Rapson and E. Senart. The large num-
ber and variety of the names permitted a morphological study, a
way of approach which is more or less practical even in the case
of an etymologically unknown language. The general conclusion
was that the substrate dialect was Tibeto-Burman, perhaps in some
points less closely related to actual Tibetan than to others of the
linguistic family. The term ‘Khotan’ in the title of. the paper and
the fact that in the contents no distinction was made between the
Khotan kingdom and any other region along the southern route may
perhaps be excused on the grounds (1) that, despite the clear ex-
position in Sir Aurel Stein’s Serindia (pp. 219-220, 318-345), the
importance of the distinction was not yet recognized, as is otherwise
also manifest, (2) that all the Kharosthi documents edited in the
said Part | came from a region which subsequently, at least, apper-
tained to the Khotan kingdom, and (3) that the names explicitly
connected in the documents with Khotan are not morphologically
discrepant. There was however, a number of mistakes in detail,
requiring to be explicitly abjured,®® and in certain spellings the edi-
tion, using transcriptions since shown to be unreliable, was followed
without question.

The strength of the prepossession in favour of Iranian, supported
by the presence in the documents of a modest number of terms pro-
bably or certainly Iranian, some few perhaps definitely from Khotan,
may perhaps help to account for the conviction expressed by Pro-
fessor Konow (in ‘Ein neuer Saka-Dialekt,’ Berlin Academy Sitzun-
gsberichte, 1935, pp. 772-823, see p. 792 andn. 1), who declaring
himself not convinced by the etymology of the title cojhbo as men-
tioned supra, identifies the word confidently with an appellation
cazba, applied to a person4n several of his Maralbashi Saka docu-
ments. In regard to this it may be remarked that (1) there is no

50 Silpoga (.ka), pp. 45, 52, 68, hilma, p. 49, palpi, p. 61,—these corrected
in Acta Orientalia, XII, p. 53, XIII, pp. 46, 62-3; sothamgha, p. 61-—
corrected, Act. Or., XII, p. 45, XIII, p. 62; ajhate, p. 59, tanuvaga,
pp. 49, 57, 61—Iranian and Prakrit, Khrom Ge*sar, p. 65—see infra, p. 73;
Bhotinagara, p. 49. Pirova, pp. 46-7, 57, 61—discussed elsewhere. See also
remark infra, p. 77.

4
70 F. W. THOMAS

“

evidenee that cazba is a title, oficial or otherwise, and not a prefixed
surname of another kind, (2) Maralbashi is separated from the
nearest point where cojhbo is attested by c. 300 miles of impassable
desert in a direct line and much more by any practical route, and
cazba is not attested anywhere between, (3) in date cazba is posterior
to cojhbo, as regards attestation, by some c. 500 years (or more),
(4) cazba has two a’s where cojhbo has two o’s. It is, no doubt,
true that etymological connections can overleap spaces and times;
but demonstration of them should not, one would think, do so,
and clearly it should not neglect such difference in the vowels.
If it should eventually appear that cazba is connected with cojhbo,
that could only be, one would suppose. through borrowing from
a common source.

In these circumstances we can appreciate the independent
judgment of Professor Liiders, who from a study [Acta Orientalia,
XVIII (1939), pp. 26-34] of the names in connection with phonological
matters concludes as follows :—

‘The preceding observations do not, of course, in any way
claim to exhaust the question as to the language to which
those foreign names belong. I was concerned only to draw
attention to a point which seems to have been hitherto little
or not at all regarded and which perhaps may some day
contribute to a solution of the question. That the language
is, as Burrow seems inclined to: assume, the Tochari appears
to me as little credible as its connection with the Tibetan,
which Thomas conjectured. That we are concerned with an
Eastern-Asian language is to me, indeed, probable, and I might
hold it for not excluded that some at least of the names belong
to the Chinese linguistic branch’ [then follow a few particulars].

If our old and respected colleague had had his attention drawn to
the article published in 1926, he would, no doubt, have admitted;
what perhaps is undeniable, that the matter of the names had been
treated at considerable length and somewhat systematically from
the point of view which he mentions:-and he might even have
allowed that some particular matters, such as final -e and -i, in their
Declensional relation to -aya, -eya and -iya, the frequency of names
in -ge. etc., had received attention, and further, that the system of
the nomenclature had been contemplated. It cannot be said that
Professor Liiders’ view is in general concurrence with that put
forward in the article, and some scrutiny of it may be permissible.
But first a word may be interpolated concerning the theory of
Dr. Burrow, to which he refers.

Lf
THE EARLY POPULATION OF LOU-LAN-SHAN-SHAN 7

From what has been cited supra it is indubitable that the Lou-lan
people had contacts on the north with the Chii-shih (Guchen-Turfan)
kingdom, where the language was rather certainly ‘Tokhari’. On
the north-west also, if the- little states of Mo-shan, Wei-hsii and
Wei-li (the two last, at any rate, usually connected with Karashahr)
were also of ‘Tokhari’ speech, there was some slender chain of
‘Tokhari’ linking Lou-lan to the known ‘Tokhari’ areas of Karashahr
and Kuca. Thus Lou-lan might be supposed a further link in the
chain, and the words akratsa and kitsaitsa mentioned supra might
be regarded as linguistic evidence of connection. Dr. Burrow”’,
however, admitting the paucity of such iexical evidences, seems to
lay most stress upon phonological similarity, such as lack (not affirmed
as absolute) of voiced consonants, aspirates, and spirantic x0 f, and
of v, palatalization of 1, n, and perhaps ?, before i, also elisions of
vowels: he adduces, further, the use of certain sufhxes. Dr. Burrow’s
rapidly stated evidences could not be examined except at consider-
able length and with close regard to their correctness, completeness
and validity. The absence of mediae in the Shan-shan language
seems highly questionable: lack of spirants x 6 f, of wo and A,
together with regular insertion of y between certain consonants and
-i or -e, appears in a Tibeto-Burman language not remote from
‘Lou-lan and partly in Tibetan itself. The matter of the suffixes
will in part be considered infra. Here, as the theory is still rather
vague, it may be relevant to make three general observations: (1) The
‘Tokhari’ language is not known to ‘us, except for a few names
of perhaps that origin in impossible Chinese transcriptions, until a
period posterior by c. 400 agitated years to the Kharosthi documents.
(2) the language was in all probability intrusive at some period in
Chinese Turkestan and is likely to owe some of its remarkable phone-
tic and other peculiarities to a native substrate, and (3) if its highly
complex structure existed contemporaneously with the Kharosthi,
the latter should have shown some definite traces of it. Unfortunately
we have not for any period any appreciable quantity of “Tokhari’
personal names. . :

Returning to Professor Liiders’ exposition, we cannot contest
the supposition that some of the personal names in the documents
may be Chinese. But there are limits to this: it should be remem-
bered that from Krorayina have come more than 1000 Chinese
documents contemporary with the Kharosthi, and that these contain

51 See JRAS, 1935, pp. 667-675, The Language of the Khurosthi Docu.
ments,.., (1987), pp. viil-ix,
72 F, W. THOMAS

numerous Chinese persona! names, the forms of which seem to have
been perfectly ‘intelligible, for the most part, to the accomplished
editors.*? The identification of Chinese names in rhe Kharosthi
would therefore be to Sinologist scholars not so difficult that a
considerable quantity of them could escape detection. This there-
fore could be put to an early test: non-Sinologists can somewhat
help themselves reflecting that no such names can contain a ‘suffix’.
The phonology does not seem promising.

As a curiosity, it may be noted that per contra one or two Shan-
shan native names occur in the Chinese. Thus there is a ‘Kun Na-
sien of the Lou-lan state,’ who in Kharosthi would perhaps have
been Kunasena (a frequently recurring name), and an often mention-
ed Ma-li, clearly identical with a likewise often mentioned cu-pu
Ma, who may be a namesake of-the Maharaja Mahiri and perhaps
also of a Kharosthi Mariérr[ ga] .”

Professor Liiders, in holding (p. 32) that the majority of the
names were really dissyllabic and that in origin they were neither
Indian nor Iranian, may be considered, more especially in view of
his reference to Chinese, to approximate to the view that the lan-
guage was of the monosyllabic kind. But this is not explicitly stated,
and in fact Professor Liiders speaks not of Chinese, but of the Chinese
linguistic branch.

52 See the above-noted publications of Chavannes aud Conrady.

53 See Conrady, vp. cit., p. 98 (Kunasena), p. 191 (Murigrr), Ma Li
is mentioned on pp. 83, 88,94 (‘of Lou-lan’), 97,140; and cu-pu Ma, pp. 91, 98,
"140, is regularly identified by Conrady as ‘Ma (li’), which seems correct,
because in Chavanres nos, 746 and 747 a ‘cu-pu Ma-Li’ is named, in no. 747
entitled also ‘charged with the administration of the pass’; in Conrady,
p. 135, is mentioned a ts'ung-yitan-wei, Ma Li, possibly again the same person.

The expression cu-pu (tstu-W’uo, Karlgren, nos. 1244, 764) is in the
documents regularly translated (‘le comptable’=‘responsible’ or ‘accountant’)
by Chavannes, but not elsewhere, in its slightly modifed occurrence as an
official title, 152 A.D, in the state of (Kh)yii-mi, the eastern neighbour of
Khotan: here he writes (T’oung-pao, IL. viii, p. 173) tchou-pouo, the character
being Karlgren, nos. 1244 and 764 (téiu-b’ék). Conrady never translates.
The difference between the Chinese character for b’uo and b’dk being minute,
it seems likely that in both cases the same native title is transcribed, a
fact of some significance in view of the situation of the two places, Krorayina
and (Kh) yii-mi, adjoining the eastern and western extremities-of the Shan-
shan state. . ~
THE EARLY POPULATION OF LOU-LAN-SHAN-SHAN 73

At this point some facts may perhaps be usefully adduced. In
the /.R.A.S. 1928, pp. 91-96, has been published a considerable
collection of personal names of c. VIIth-Villth centuries A.D. be-
longing to the Tun-huang region. Passing over those which are
Tibetan, we find that (1) the personal names are nearly all dissyllabic
and (2) they are mostly preceded by a surname, usually a gentile or
clan name, which gives us two types—

(1) fora man: Bam Kun-tse, Kvuag Tam-tam
(2) for a woman: Son Sem-fian, Koag-za Ji-lim
The za following Kvag in (2) is ‘certainly a Tibetan addition, since
it was almost universal in formal names of Tibetan wives and other
ladies: it is simply=bza, ‘woman,’ ‘wife.’ Samfian is certainly
Chinese: it means ‘Third-woman (sc. daughter?),’ this numerical
type having many examples; and Son is the family or clan name.
The reduplication form, Tam-tam, is common perhaps not under
all gentile heads. Most numerously and widely represented is the
type Kun-tse, with tse as second member, more especially if we
include those with tshe. Since tse/tshe does not appear in names
of women, it may mean ‘son’; but then, unless we are assured that
the name is Chinese, in which case the -tse is probably =Chinese
tz, ‘son’, a doubt may arise; since both ‘Tokhari’ and Saka-Khotani
can furnish a se, sa, meaning ‘son’ and therewith a possible origin
of the Kharosthi Prakrit -se, -seva and -sena. Of the dissyllabic
names such as Ji-lim, which have not a stereotyped second syllable,
many could, no doubt, be detected by scholars as Chinese; and in
some cases of flowery names of women, e.g. Hva-sim, ‘Flower-
mind’, this may be conjectured even by an outsider. But it is
likely that a proportion of the names may have belonged to ‘natives’
of various local races.

The old Tibetan names of pre-Buddhist type; whereof we have
perhaps some thousand, are likewise mainly dissyllabic, such as
Klu-legs, ‘Dragon-good’, Dpal-bzan, ‘Majesty-great’ (or ‘kind’),
Rgyal-gzigs, ‘Victory-look’, Myes-tshab, ‘Grandfather-substitute’,
Stag-skyes, ‘Tiger-born’ (or ‘male’). The meaning is usually clear;
but in some cases one or other of the components is of unascertained
meaning, or there are mixtures comparable to Sanskrit Aésvagupta, |
Greek Pheidippides. The (prefixed) surnames may be gentile or
tribal, as in the case of Sron-btsan Sgam-po’s famous minister Mgar
(or Hgar) ‘ston-rtsan, or merely local, as in Tshe-spon Tre-gon, or
very widely territorial or national, e.g. Rma-, ‘(of) the Hoang-ho
(river country),’ Khrom Ge-sar, ‘Ge-sar of Khrom’, Li-, ‘Khotani’.
4 ¥F. W. THOMAS
When*there is an official or similar title, e.g. Blon, ‘Councillor’,
Jo-co, ‘Chief’, the surname is usually omitted.

In view of these usages, showing no trace of ‘suffixes’, the
question of suffixes in the Shan-shan names becomes crucial. The
difficulty is due in part to different ways of approach on the part
of scholars, according as one regards the matter from the Indianist
side, another from some other linguistic quarter. But the difference
does not begin at once. Thus Professor Liiders considers (p. 33)
that many final a’s after consonants in Shan-shan names are
Indianizing additions; and here there will be general agreement,
in principle, on the part of those who remember the Indian practice
at all periods. surunga (Gk. siiring-), Cina (Tsin), tikina (Turk
tegin), Toramana (Tirman), Maha@mada (Muhammad), Akabbara
(Akbar), Moksamiilara (Max Miiller). But, when we come to cases
with vowels, e.g. -eya, iya, -ua, on the Indian side, e.g. Yaua(sa)
(yabgu), Mahiphatiena (\Instrumental of Mahipati), the Prakrit
view begins to posit a lost consonant and we may notice the actual
occurrence of yavuga, which however, is ambiguous. [hen, in the
Kharosthi there are numerous words, whereof Professor Liders
has given long lists, in which -aya has become -e and -iya and -ika
-i; and this leads to the supposition that the longer forms, where
found, are mere writings, the shorter forms being those actually
spoken. In some particular instances an objection may be raised:
thus striya does not seem to be, as suggested on p. 28, a mere
writing of stri; its Genitive striyae shows that it is an -G@ stem, parallel
to nid, vdcd, disa. griyG, madara, gaiiG, and other feminines of the
Prakrit period.** ' That the forms in -eya, -iya, are merely writings
is evident in various ways, from alternation and from Genitives such
as Sugesa, palpisa; but Genitives and Instrumentals such as Vuruasa
(never Vuruga) from Vuru, palpiyena (never palpina) from palpi,
seem to show that after u and i the a- declension was convenient
in those cases, as in the above-noted yauasa and Mahiphatiena.

In the 1926 article also the -e, -i, -o, -u, were taken as the real
terminations in the native names and -a also was widely admitted;
it was assumed that their existence, if proved, was self-justificatory.
But in nearly all cases they were regarded not as being in them-

54 Seo Pischel, Grammatik der Prakrit-Sprachen, § 418, and note that
the Bhandarkar-Fleet explanation (JItAS, 1908, pp. 476-7) of bhicd in the
expression . silévigadabhicd, occurring in the Rummuindei inscription, as con-
nected with Sanskrit UAitti, ‘wall,’ may after all be correct, if we derive
bhicé, not from bhittikd, but from, bhittya:
THE EARLY POPULATION OF LOU-LAN-SHAN-SHAN 75

selves ‘suffixes’, but as belonging to suffixal syllables, e.g. -ta, -te,
-to, with a preceding consonant. The existence of some such
‘suffixes’ may be taken as generally admitted, e.g. the -(m)ca,
expressing plurality and the -imci, signifying connection with a
place: the latter is perhaps so ancient that it may possibly be
recognized in the name of the Yiieh-chih, i.e. the Nwet (Tangut)
people.°> Whether Professor Liiders would admit the existence
of further ‘suffixes’ is perhaps not clear, his expusition being
presented as selective, not as exhaustive; thus, in affirming the
priority of Cgito to Cigito and Lpipta to Lpipita (p. 33) he does not
raise the question whether the -to and -ta are, or are not ‘suffixes’.
That in any case they are separate elements is proved by the existence
of evidently related names. Cigana and Cgoya in the one case,
Lpipaae, Lpipamga, Lpipana, Lpipama, Lpipa, Lpipga. etc., in
the other.

In regard, however, to such alternatives as Sugi/Sugita,
Kupsu/Kupsuta, which sometimes, no doubt, as Professor Liiders

55 That Langut was properly a place-name (like Thogura) appears from
the well-known reference (see Thomsen, Jscriptions de POrkhon, pp. 123,
178 (86) by the Northern.Turk hagen Bilgi to his invasion of it (Taviauty
during his 27th year (709-710 A.D.). The word cannot here refer to
the ‘ibetans: during ‘tthe period in gestion the Tibetans were in general
accord with the Turks, and they were not in occupation of any part of
Kan-su, their first attack upon Kwa-chou taking place in 727 A.D., when
they hoped for Turk co-operation: moreover, the name of Tibet in the same
inscription is Tiipiit (see Index), It i» credible that the Turks, who in the
same passage mention the Sogdians under an ancient form (Segdak) of their
name, should have preserved the old Chinese form of the name Va-yiieh
(-c/), as known to the Hsiung-nu. The Yiieh (Niwet)-ci will have been the
people of the Yiieh (Nuet) country (or region), which does not, however,
preclude the possibility that the region derived its name from the, or a,
tribe, the two notions being inseparable. The name Yiieh (Nwet).ci may have
been one not recognized by tthe people themselves, but given by .their
neighbours, A, perhaps not fatal, objection to the above conjecture must. be
seen in the fact that the Yiieh-ci, while still in Kan-su, do not appear to
have been known to the Hsiung-nu as Ta-yiiehci: see the communications to
the Chinese translated in De Groot, Die Hunnen dev vorchristlichen Zeit,
p. 76 (176 B.C.), and Die Westland Chinas..., p. 9 (c. 140 B.C.). Was that
form used even by the Chinese prior to the foundation of the Yiieh-chih kingdom
in Baktria?P
76 F. W. THOMAS

pointsput, designate an identical person’® it is clearly stated that the
shorter forms are derived from the longer, Sugit. Kupsut (the -a being
understood as a Prakrit addition), by disappearance of -t, which
had been affirmed in some instances of Indian names, e.g. Jiva-rakgi-
But there does not seem to be ground for positing any loss of final
consonants in the native language; and the history of personal
names elsewhere does not confirm an explanation of the (supposed)
shortening as of a phonetic character: it is not through a phonetic
process that in English William and James become Will, Willy,
Willie, Jamie: Also, as regards the supposed forms Sagit, Kupsut
without -a, it seems unfortunate that they should have no connection
with such as Lpipta, where Professor Liiders does not discard the
-a, and rather numerous others, e.g, Aupsimta, Kusamta, Lpimirta,
Tsagirsta, which seem to merit a like treatment.

Another matter which is explicit in Professor Liiders’ exposition
(p. 34) is insertion of inorganic vowels: thus not only is Cigito
derived from Cgito, and not vice versa, as one would have been
inclined to suppose,*” but Mafigeya, Kolpige, (despite Kolpisa),
Kalpigeya (despite Kalpisa), Malpigeya, Palugeya (despite Palvisae,
Paluvisae), Camasu (despite Camaga, Camaka, Camasriae, Camimta,
Camo, etc.), are substitutes in writing for Mafi-ge', Kol-ge', Kal-ge’,
Mal-ge , Pal-ge', Cam-su respectively. In all these cases the real spoken
form was dissyllabic.

In the 1926 article -ta, -to, -ge, and many other terminal syllables
were regarded as ‘suffixes’; and considerable lists of examples, which
now, in consequence of the publication of Parte If and III of the
edition, could be amplified,*® were given under each head. The
examples were roughly divided into ‘Primary’ and ‘Secondary, the
latter being for the most part names of three or more syllables, fre-
quently with the second syllable also recognizable as a ‘suffix’; but

56 Itcannot, however, be assumed in general that in cases such as Art
Sugi and Ari Sugita the identical surname suffices to prove identity of per-
sons. Frequently a gentile surname restricts, or even dictates, the choice of
personal names, and it is perhaps specially productive of similarities of name,
such as between Sugi and Sugita, in the group,

57 The loss of vowels, as posited in the 1926 article (p. 55), might have
been expected to commend itself to those who, with Professor Liiders (p. 27),
regard Butsena, Butsenga, for instance, as really derived from Budhasena
and Budhagenika, and not as Hobson.Jobsonisms,

58 Unfortunately the lists contain a considerable number of errors and
could not be used without circumspection,
THE EARLY POPULATION OF LOU-LAN-SHAN-SHAN 7

some instances where an original second syllable had lost its vowel,
e.g. Kamcge from Kamcage, were reckoned as ‘Secondary.’ Of -ge
‘Primary’ over 20 examples were given, of -ge ‘Secondary’ about 15.
By this procedure the root forms of the language are reduced to
monosyllables, and it was concluded that the language was of the
monosyllabic type. The conclusion is, indeed, not inevitable: in
the English word ‘denationalization’ the removal of formatives leaves
as the root basis only the syllable na, and even in that the -a may
have been a ‘determinative’ (gen-a); yet the early Indo-European
was not monosyllabic. The clearness, however, with which the
structure can be seen in the Shan-shan names seems to indicate a
stage still monosyllabic or an early period of transition. The accu-
mulation of formatives exemplified, e.g. by Yipicga, if = Yi-pi-ca-ga.
and the exiguity of the ‘root’, yi, are no objection: such accumula-
tion was regarded by B. H. Hodgson (JASB. XXII, 1850, pp. 132-5)
as an essential characteristic of the large groups of Asiatic languages;
cf. what is stated in the Linguistic Survey of India, |. i., pp. 36-7,
concerning Munda languages. The slightness of the root, yi (or i),
is, of course, paralleled by many Chinese words of substantial mean-
ing and by not a few in Tibeto-Burman: in Tibetan, for instance,
yig, ‘writing,’ ‘letter,’ was originally yi-ge, a form well known in texts.

A marked peculiarity of the Shan-shan suffixes is the vowel ablaut
seen in -ta, -te, -to. From the lists some few examples may be
quoted—

a e °
‘Primary’: Apta, Yita(ga, etc.) Amte, Pite(ya): Amto, Pito(e)
Spirta;
‘Secondary’: Sirjhata (from Sirsa); Sirsate(yae); Cokamto(ae) (Coka
Lpimirta Vugite (cf. Vugato (cf.
(from Lpimira) ; Vugica); Vugaca, etc.)
Tamcgota Bhurimte(ya); Tsugamto (cf.
(from Tamcgo); Tsugeta, etc.)

If this vowel-variation were confined to the #- ‘suffixes’, it might
conceivably be regarded as accidental. But it recurs in other cases:
we find—
kalke/ko: Carka; Tsurke(ya); Carko, etc.

Sugika. Ciyoka, Lpimirka; Sugiko, Samgko(ya), etc.
ga/ge/go: Suga(e), Yapga Lamga; Apge, Yipge, Sugo(e);
Yipgo, Lamgo,. etc.
Tamega, Bhugelaga; Tamege, Catmage, Parsuge ;
Tamcgo, Bhugelugo, etc.
48 F, W. THOMAS

P
ca/ce/co: Pgeca, Piteca, Vugaca, Kapoca; Argice(ya);

Pgoco, etc.
nalne/no: Pulna, Cipna; Somne, etc.

Pgena, Kacana, Lpimirna; Kacano, etc.

ma/me/mo: Cama(érr, etc,), Cima(ga); Kulme; Camo, Kulmo, etc.
Cinama, Sugama; Sagamo, etc.

ra/re/ro: Catara(ka); Catre, Rutre; Catro, Rutro, etc.
Lpimira, Panagara; Cakare. etc.

la/le/lo: Yila(ga); Yile, Kole(ca); Kolo(e), etc.

Amijila, Cimala, Bhugela(ga); Mogale(ya), Bakule;

. Jivalo, Amijilo, etc.
sa/se/so: Sirsa, Presa(mdha); Prese, etc.

Calmasa, Catisa, Kugesa, Priyosa, etc.

It will perhaps be granted that in the ‘Secondary’ use the ‘suffixes,’
with their initial consonant, were in real, and indeed active, currency.
In many ‘primary’ forms also, such as Kapga, Tsurke, Cipna, Kulme,
Catma, Catro, Sirsa, where the preceding syllable ends in a conso-
nant, a like assent may be anticipated. But informs such as Moga/
Moge, Pite/Pito, Kofie, Kame, Camo, Kale, Puse, it may seem not
at all clear that the consonant does not belong to the ‘root’ syllable,
in which case it would be necessary to admit ‘suffixes’ consisting
of a vowel: and it may be further remarked that -i and -u forms of
the ‘suffixes’, noted in the lists, e.g, Kaki (Kake), Amgi(Amgo),
Aptagi, Cimi(da), Amti, Kori, Yili, Ralsi(ta), Parku(ta), Tagu,
. Pacgu, Lustu, Kapu(mca), Camsu, Lpimsu, have been passed over.”®
Provisionally, however, this question is not particularly urgent:
so long as a ‘suffix’-variation ma/me/mo is a certainty, it is not
necessary, until we are considering the origin of the vowel-variation
in the ‘suffix’, to decide whether the same variation occurs in
other situations also, Cama, Came, Camo, being from Cam-a, Cam-e,
Cam-o. But it may be noted that in the current usage the vowel-
variation must, by reason of its frequency, have been felt to have
some significance: thus, since the Central-Asian languages were

59 'The -: forms are inconvenient because of the possibility that some of
them are Prakritiq; the uw forms are comparatively few. On the Tibeto-
Burman side also there are uncertainties: it is not certain that the Locative
suffixes—ru and —su in Tibetan are connected rith ra and sa or that the

—gu suffiix is connected with —ga,
THE EARLY POPULATION OF LOU-LAN-SHAN-SHAN 79

‘ prone to use ‘honorifics’, Cigito may have been a more respectful
form than Cigita. :

The significant matter here is that the same vowel-variation,
largely with the same suffixes, is found in Tibetan and other Tibeto-
Burman dialects of north-eastern ‘Tibet’. In the conjugation of
verb-roots ending in a consonant this ancient ablaut is exhibited
in all manuals of Tibetan, e.g. byed, ‘do’, byas, ‘done’, byos, ‘do’,
hdren, tran, drons, ‘lead’: but it often also occurs otherwise, giving
alternative verb-roots shown in the lexicons, as sfeg/sfog, ‘follow’,
gcad/bcad/gcod, ‘cut’, ‘decide’, hgal. ‘disagree’, ‘err’, hgol,
‘separate’, ‘stray’, gtod/gtad, ‘hand over’, sog/gsag, ‘collect’,
sems/bsam, ‘think’, (som-fii, ‘doubt’),°° sel/gsa?, ‘make’ or ‘be clear’.
The a/o ablaut is frequent in connection with verb-roots ending
in the vowel a, not only in Imperatives, such as ltos, ‘see’, from
lia, zos, ‘eat’, from za, but also in independent words, ltos, ‘look’,
zlo/bzla, ‘call’, zlos, ‘charm’, ‘spell’, chos, ‘religion’, from hchah,
‘prepare’, ‘institute’, This a/o alternation is seen markedly in
the two words ra, ‘enclosed space,’ sa, ‘land,’ ‘spot,’ on their way
to becoming ‘suffixes’: thus the ra of Idum-ra, ‘garden’, btson-ra,
‘prison’, becomes ro when denoting a large area, as in Cog-ro,
‘the Cog country’, Myan-ro, ‘the Myan-country’; and sa, ‘place’,
is so in so-mtshams, ‘land-boundary’, nran-so, ‘inferior position’,
khab-so, ‘mansion’, gtad-so, ‘a refuge’. The very ancient sufhix
ma, found perhaps also in Burmese, competes with mo over a wide
field of denotations in Adjectives, names of actions, agents, parts of
the body, instruments, plants, nature-features (fi-ma, ‘sun’, skar-ma,
‘star’, fin-mo, ‘day’, etc., etc.). The pluralizing sufix-cag (probably
from -ca-ge) in pronouns and elsewhere alternates with -cog.

There is a fair number of old Tibetan words in -ga (cho- Pm
‘method,’ etc.) and -ka, some in -ge (yi-ge, ‘writing,’ sen-ge, ‘lion,’
etc.); and the antiquity of -ga/-ka is shown by the fact that in VIIIth-
IXth century MSS. connected with the Koko-nor region it is normal
in relation to places, e.g. in sa-ga, ‘belonging to earth,’ gnam-ka,
‘belonging to heaven,’ Tson-ka, later the birth-place of the famous
Tson-kha-pa, which suggests that some of the later words with -kha,
like sftin-kha (and ga) once had the same. But the most interesting
of such early ‘suffixes,’ of which there are in normal Tibetan a few
examples, e.g. rgyal-ta, ‘a fire,’ khwa-ta, ‘crow,’ %al-ta, ‘service,’
is that with t, whence we have the three forms ta/te/to. Ta occurs

60 Le. som_gitis, ‘thoughts-two,’
80 F. W. THOMAS

in a few names of the period indicated, Btshan-ta, Legs-kon-ta, :
Legs-kri-ta, where it is evidently equivalent to the fo in certain con-
temporary names, Btsan-to-re, ‘Puissant-is,’ Sgra-yas-to, ‘sound (voice ?
fame ?)-unlimited.? But a much wider prospect is opened when we
turn to an ancient Tibeto-Burman language of the Koko-nor region.
Here the Tibetan noun-verb suffix pa/ba is wanting, and its place is
taken by -ta, as in chos-ta, ‘a beginning,’ béi-ta, ‘a dead man,’ hSes-ta.
‘the knowing’; and we have such forms as no-sto (=nos-to), ‘friend,’
and to commonly occurs as a verb-suffix at the end of a sentence,
as in stor-to, ‘were scattered.’ The last-cited usage is evidently iden-
tical with the welleknown Tibetan Preterite ending to, e.g. in bstan-
to, ‘showed’; and this enables us to see that the not less frequent
te, e.g. in hphom-te-dran ‘are led conquered,’ is identical with the
common Tibetan Gerund-sufhx -te (de, ste). Nor can the inherent
meaning of the ‘suffix’ be hidden‘from us. Ta is simply the verb
‘be’; and as an auxiliary it is still used in eastern and north-eastern
‘Tibet,’*! where we have such forms of the Present Tense as rig-ta,
‘(I) see (it),” rig-me-ta, ‘do not see it,’ Rockhill, Diary of a Journey;
p. 270. The te, de, of the Tibetan Gerund clearly isa form of the
same verb, with the signification ‘being’; and in the language above
mentioned it is similarly used and also as a merely Adjective-forming
suffix: the to- form is perhaps merely a more emphatic ta. Bishan-
ta may thus be in relation to Btshan-to (-re, another ‘is’ —word, very
common (red) in ordinary southern Tibetan) precisely what in Shan-
shan Cigita was to Cigito.

As was noted in the 1926 article (p. 55, cf. p. 76) the vocalic
variation must have had an origin or origins: but we can hardly
expect to explain it or them, since the alternation seems to belong
to the arcana of the Tibeto-Burma dialects of ‘Tibet,’ at any rate.
Nor could we expect it to be manifested equally in all the different
sufhxes: we can only endeavour to define the actual usages where
we find them, and even that can be done only vaguely. The a/o
alternation we have found in normal Tibetan current—

(1) in the very ancient m-sufhx,
(2) in the plural suffix ca (g), co (g),
(3) in certain -a verb-roots, such as za/zo, ‘eat,’

61 The same verb, fa, to, with the meaning ‘be, ‘become,’ is used also
in several Tibeto-Burman languages of the Himalayan group; sec Linguistic
Survey of Indiu, 111.1, pp. 185, 192, 435, 445, 456, 463.
THE EARLY POPULATION OF LOU-LAN-SHAN-SHAN 81

(4) in certain nouns, e.g. ra/ro, ‘bounded space,’ sa/so,
‘earth,’ ‘place.’ ‘station or gtade.’

Here we do not seem able to adduce relevant forms with -e (re(s),
‘a turn,’ and re(d), ‘be,’ may not be connected with ra); but the
ga/ka suffix has a few Tibetan parallels in -ge, and, since, as form-
ing Adjectives. it is probably of pronominal origin, the go/ko of
hdi-ko, ‘this same,’ de-kv, ‘that very,’ will be akin, more especially
in view of de-ka, ‘that very,’ gfiis-ka, gfti-ga, ‘the two,’ etc.—in the
above-mentioned language of the north-east ge is a particle of
enormous frequency, sometimes found conjoined with the ta- sufhx
in a way exemplified in the following passage—
hde-me-htah-g-ron-hyed-ge-ta-hwa-ste-htah.
‘the fires of prosperity, with cooling or dying emissions,
are done for’ (conjectural translation).

Here the first htah is appended to the coinpound hde-me, ‘prosperity-
fire’: the second is attached to the attribute g-ron-hyed with an inter-
vening ge; the third acts as the verb ‘are,’ ending the sentence. In
hwa-ste (i.e. hwas-te) we have an equivalent of the Tibetan Gerund
bas-te, ‘being done for.’ The accumulation of forms of the ta-
sufix has evidently a rhetorical effect. The combination -ge-ta is
reminiscent of the Shan-shan name Lalugeta, in which both the -ge
and the -ta are indubitably ‘suffixes.’

This remarkable vowel-ablaut, common to the Shan:shan langu-
age and “dialects of north-eastern Tibet and to a considerable
extent found in connection with identical ‘suffixes’, seems to
demonstrate some close morphological affinity. It suggests a search
for lexical correspondences. Unfortunately the Proper Names,
which constitute the bulk of the material, are the most unpromising
field for any serious inquiry of that kind; and the other available
expressions fail, as has been noted, to include any of the important
objects of nature or notions of common life, all these being mentioned
by Prakrit terms. But certainly we have a few place-names ending
in a -sa, which might be equivalent to Tibeto-Burman sa, ‘earth’,
‘ground’, ‘place’, ‘residence’, fe.g. in Lha-sa): Samarsa is definitely
a place, and so, apparently, is Bhagasa in no. 608, as is also
indicated by the derivatives Bhagasaci and Bhagasemci: the four
forms Koltarsa and “sa (always a surname), Cadiyaarsa, Manaégarsa,
Mantarsa, should be analogous to Samarsa. Upon this basis it was
suggested in the 1926 article (pp. 67-8) that a number of other forms
in -sa (e.g. Calmasa, Catisa. Huvisa, Palvisa etc.), were really
82 F, W. THOMAS

I

*

residemce-names applied to persons, a procedure familiar both in
the east and in the west. In connection with the expression Catisa
deviyae (nos. 46, 334) it has been suggested by Dr. Burrow (JRAS.,
1935, p. 672) that -sa tends to be a feminine sufhx. He admits,
however, that itis found in names of men; and in fact it is never
found in women’s names. This appears, in fact, in the very example
Catisa deviyae, Genitive of Catisa-deviya; for the femininity is
expressed by the word deviya, and this is seen in no. 295, devi
Catisae (for Catisaae) where the order of the two terms is reversed;
and the real feminine sufhx, -e, appears: Cadigaae occurs in no. 606.
The constant, almost invarible, spelling of -isa, -isae, names with
s, not s, seems to indicate that the sa was something more than
a suffix.

That -e was the regular feminine termination® and was appended
to corresponding masculine names was shown in the 1926 article
(pp. 52-3), where a good number of examples was cited, e.g.
Apisae from Apisa, Namilgae from Namilga, Sarvinae from Sarvina,
Camotie from Camoti, Catoe from Cato, Sarvaégrre from Sarvaérr.
In no. 110 there is a list of 10 women, all with names ending in
-e; and similarly in no..552 a list of 8 women, apparently wives of
the persons (none of the latter with such an -e) named along with
them severally. The Genitive of this -e was -ae, as if from an -é
stem, and this Case-relation is clearly shown, for instance, in no. 719
where Camtamnoe is the Nominative and the Genitive Camtamnoae
appears, as frequently, in connection with namma (English ‘name
of’}: similarly in no. 53 Camo(e) appears in the superscription,™
but Camoae nama in the text. Where the Nominative ends in -ae,
‘tthe Genitive should be in -aae, as Namilgaae (no. 288); but the
awkwardness of the combination of vowels and the irregularities
of the syntax have led to some confusions. In no. 399 two Nomina-
tives in -ae, Cataroyae and Pacguyae, have Genitives in -sa.

In Tibeto-Burman languages it may not be possible to find an
equivalent to this feminine -e ‘suffix’. To judge from the above-

62 1t is not contended that there were no feminine names without -e:
Praikrit forms in .¢ might of course, be expected. As regards Tilutamae /°uae
in no, 566 it seems that the -c was present in the Nominative; but Konumua,
Genitive Konumac, is clear in no, 46, and Sugnuniae is in no. 481 (thrice)
a Genitive.

63 In the expression Lpipe Camo Palvisue ca the .e of Palvisae may
have served also for Camo(e).
THE EARLY POPULATION OF LOU-LAN-SHAN-SHAN 83

described use of Tibetan (b)za and Chinese niang in feminine nomen-
clature, it should be an independent word, meaning ‘woman’ or
‘daughter’: there is, however, no basis for adducing Hsi-hsia yi, i,
‘woman’ (see Laufer in T’oung-pao, II. xvii (1916), pp. 64-5) or
Burushaski -i, ‘daughter’ (Col. Lorimer’s The Burushaski Language,
Ill, p. 12). In the Shan-shan -e names it does not appear that the
prior part was the name of the father: certainly it was not that of
the mother. A priori, a ‘family’ or ‘residence’ name would seem
likely. There does not seem to be any instance of -e appended
to a female animal’s name.

If there was, as has been hére expounded, a living Tibeto-Burman
factor in the Shan-shan language, it yet does not follow that the
language was wholly of that character. Two features in the phono-
logy of the names seem adverse to that supposition. The first of
the two is the absence of the consonantal Prefixes of the Tibetan,
some of which certainly existed, though much less developed, in the
north-eastern (Ch’iang) dialects of the country: the therewith con-
nected initial aspirates, kh, ch, th, ph, seem likewise little apparent.
Secondly, the relative frequency of initial vowels and final breathed
consonants in the names, and also elsewhere, e.g, in Ap(ge), Op(ge),
Ap(ta), Cat(ma), yat(ma), ageta, Carto, is prima facie adverse. Some
historical considerations also perhaps interpose. The Chinese evi-
dently distinguished the Lou-lan people from the Ch’iang despite
the intercourse between the two: also the settled civilization, such
as it was, of the western parts (Cadota, etc.) of Shan-shan, if it was,
as Grenard surmised, concerning Chinese Turkestan in general, of
great antiquity, may have long preceded the special Ch’iang
developments of Tibeto-Burman, which in Chinese records do not
appear very early. Hence the Shan-shan language may have had
a prior, non(or hardly)-Tibeto-Burman character. If with this in
view, we should contemplate Professor Liiders’ expression ‘language
of eastern Asia,’ it would not be one of the great known languages
or groups, Chinese, Turkish, Hun, Mongol, etc., that would come
into consideration. These appeared too late in the vicinity of Chinese
Turkestan. It would be little peoples of pre-Chinese Kan-su and
and Shen-si, subsequently extinguished or Sinified, such as the ‘north-
ern Man’ and the ‘I,’ still recognized by the Chinese of the Ist cen-
tury A.D., and even later, as really existent and settled under Chinese
control. This may be found, as some relatively recent observations
a4 F. W. THOMAS

a

suggest not to be in disaccord with what was suggested in 192
(JRAS., p. 279) and repeated in 1925 and 1926 as to possible connec-
tions with pre-Tibetan (sc. Mon/Man) speech in Western ‘Tibet’.

On the basis of the name-forms it does not seem at present
possible to distinguish between the Lou-lan population and that of
the more westerly (Cadota) region of Shan-shan. Even the names
explicitly from the Khotan kingdom, still further west, viz. Apge,
Kanasaga, Mogsana, Presamdha, Sakhaa, to which might be added
the probably place-surname Kilpagi, show no difference of type.
But the question of the population of Khotan itself is in some points

special and requires a separate consideration.”

* We regret that owing to the want of types with proper diacritical marks
we have been constrained to use in the above artigle: d (or d) for q’; g@ for
wv’, 3; b for WY; j for i’; p for p’; t for t’; vy for v’; and y for vy’; in roman where
the original word containing the letter is printed in italics, and

vice versa.——Editor.
Warucan=Sah
By Dr. W. B. Henning

The Manichaeans in Iran possessed a Missionary History of
which we have fragments in three languages, in Middle Persian.
Parthian, and Sogdian. A page of the Middle Persian version
was published in 1983'; it deals with the missions to the West
(under Patecius and Addai) and to Khorasan, under Mir Ammo,
More extensive is the Sogdian version, brt nothing has heen
published so far; it is concerned mainly with the various missions
to western countries (Patecius, Addai, Gabriah), but contains
also the beginning of the Mission of Mar Ammo, Of the Parthian
version only a few scraps have survived: two were made available
by F. W.K. Mueller,? M 48 (dealing with the Tiran-Sah*) and
M 566. Three further pieces which belonged fo the same manus-
cript as M 48 and M 566, make up the fragment M 216; two of
its pieces which contained a text parallel to the Middle Persian
version, were published together with it*; the third which although
terribly mutilated is perhaps the most interesting, is given here
for the first (ime:

M 216 b°
Caption R Jey fryktgriwkn ... of the Apostle of Light

V frystgrikn [ ... the Apostle of Light
Recto

1 fry|stg p’dgyrb — [he saw] the figure of the Apostle
2 ] ’wd prw’n qft and fell on his face and became
8D wd by ws bid u mrdwhm’n unconscious. The people
4 Jn bud ?hynd oo ’dy’n were[amazed]. Thereupon
5 pdwili’d khwm’n [they] prayed: to us......
G |’h oo 00.
7 ylysws Jesus...
8

]’m 00 ~~ —~rwe shall

1 Mitteliranische Manichaica aus Chinesisch-Turkestan (abbrev. Mir, Man.),
ii, 301-306.

2 Handschriftenreste, ii, 86-88.

3 See ZDMG., 90, 7. 4 Mir.Man., ii, 301-304.

5 [square brackets] indicate letters and words missing in the manuscript
(restored by the editor),

6
36 W. B. HENNING

; Verso
9 dyn’n. mig pd wryb[yh] — ...he overcame the teachings of the
10 bzg ’ndrynj’d[oo oo] (other) religions by their own evil.
lWhbs wrwe’n Fh vw’ et] HBZA, the. Warucin-S[ah sald:
12 hiv Sym hd? wyf?w 'r’st) what is all this talk about?

10 Cwd wratynd hfe They said: it is...
14 ’st byc [ but...

15 hbz’ pf HBZA ...

16 ‘3 vas

Since this scrap was found in close proximity to the other two
pieces registered as M 216, there can be no doubt that its contents
refer either to the mission under Addai and Patecius, or the
mission under Mar Amméd. The latter is more likely by far, in
view of the absence of any mention of a Warucin-Sah in any of
the three descriptions of the western mission which are available.
This opinion seems to be supported by a further fragment of the
Parthian manuscript to which M 48, M 216, and M 566 belonged’®,
This is a double folio registered as ‘T'i« (=M 1306 in my number-
ing); one of its folios deals with the Tiran-Sah, the other is
given here:

Recto

1]... ]shr{

2 gryd oo ’ wf makes, To ...

Bist we'd 'L praised ...

47d ’w bg’ rd{ And Bag-Ard ...

5 purs’d hymf[ I asked ...

6 jyryft cy bof the wisdom of Bag{-Ard ?’
7 din pdgryft '[ 1 took her right hand
S?’wd 7c pru’[n and, [left] her presence.
9 [p]k sed ’hym [ Thereafter I went to
10 [Sjhkrysft'n the city of ...*

6 With the help of the originals it may he possible to produce complete
pages of these and a few other fragments,

rod

( Or “the wisdom of the gods’’? 8 A tantalizing lacuna!
WARDOAN-SAH 87

Verso
11 Ip .’.1 oe teeeee
12 rjngs shortly......
13 Pud ‘2 ’w .And I [went] to......
14 hjym o br'dr'n The brethren......
15 j.cg® cw’ guar dyd * when I saw......
16 ly fur rhywn ow the improvement’? of strength
17 [shr cy wirwe Sed hymn I went to [the country of Waljrué
18 wyl|kmned oo bw ..was glad. Thereupon...
19 J wyst’'d hyn o I stood...
20 ].’n bf beeeee

It seems necessary to have the name of a country or a town in
line 17, and so it is natural to restore Jrive (in itself a common
Parthian word,=‘‘day’’) to [wlrwc=Warué. We have now to
consider the question : where lay the country of Warué whose king
was called Warucan-Sah ?

Mair Amma's mission was directed principally to Abar&ahr, 1.e.
Nigapur”, from where he proceeded to Marv'’?, The Sogdian version
of the Missionary Ilistory describes his success in the following
terms: ‘“And...,..Abarsahr and Marv (’8ri’r ZY mr [y] ).....-he did
manifold...for the profit of the religion. He ordained numerous
kings and rulers, grandees and noblemen, queens and ladies, princes
and princesses. [le fully exposed the Buddhaship of the Prophet of
Light (i.e. Mani). Ile completed and fulfilled all orders and injunc-
tions that { had been given ] him by [ Mani ]’’. These sentences
which are omitted in the Middle Persian version, conclude the
surviving portion of the Sogdian story, except for an anticipatory
caption over the last page: mr’mu c’nkw hes my pyr [= “How Mar’
Ammo [came to] the frontier post of Kusban’*, On the other hand,
Mar Amm5’s adventures at the ‘‘frontier post of Kushan’, where he
met a somewhat unsympathetic spirit’? whose name was Bag-Ard",”

9 Possibly pdlycg.

10 Abstract uoun (ending -wx as in Sogdian) from why “better,”

11 Mir.Men., ti, 308; ZDMG., 90, 8.

12 His journey to Zamb on the Oxus (Mir. Maw., ii, 858; ZOMG., 90, 8)
took place much later, after Mani’s death. {It has no immediate connection
with the events described in the Missionary History.

13° The common MPers, word for ‘spirit, ghost’’ (wars) has been confused
with the name of the Oxus (.cciiv3) by Schaeder, Iraniva, 76.

14 On this name see now H.W. Bailey, Zorevustrian problems in the ninth.

century books, 67 sqq. It could also be read as Bagdrd. It is not impossible
88 W. B. HENNING

are detailed in the Middle Persian version which in its turn breaks
off in the middle of the story.

The two Parthian fragments published here continue the story.
M 1306 comes first: Mar Ammé succeeds in reconciling the spirit
Bag-Ard who at first was refusing him admittance into the countries
whose frontier she guarded, i.e. the- Kushan country, the western |
part of which was at that time (about 265-270 A.D.) a dependency
of the Sassanian state. Or more prosaically expressed: Mar Ammé,
after some difficulties, succeeded in entering the Kushan country.
After passing the frontier, he went to the city of X. (name lost in
the manuscript) where he organised a Manichaean community.
When it was well established (lines 14-16), he proceeded to the
country of Warué. The story is taken up by M 216 b now: with
the help of miracles etc. Mar Ammé becomes the talk of the country,
and in the end the attention of HBZ (Havazd?), the Waruéan- Sah,
is drawn to his activities,

Unfortunately we do not know for certain where the ‘'fron-
tier post of Kushan"’ (i.e. the frontier between Khorasan and
the then Persian dependency of Kushan) was situated in the tbird
century!®, But we may conjecture that it lay in the same district
where in the succeeding centuries the frontier between the Sassanian
state and the Kushan/Hephthalite country was established, namely
(according to Marquart) at Talaqin, halfway between Marv-i-Rod
and Paryab (Daulet-abad), It would thus appear probable that the
country of Warué lay in or close to Gézganan and Ghartistin, or at
any rate to the south- west of Balkh, It is interesting to notice that
u town of thai region, Zimat, is mentioned in a Manichaean Sogdian
fext, im connexion with the Kushano-Sogdian goddess Nana’®

that the name of the town Pxyx'gdx (Ptolemy, 6,8,15) is connected; Darmeste-
ter compared it with Avestan Vyésarata.
"15 Of. Schaeder, Iranica, 75.

16 See my article in the forthcoming number of the JHAS., 1944, part 3.
lt is, however, doubtful that the uame in the tax-list Ibn Khurdadbih, 37,9,
represcnts Zimat as claimed by Marquart, AMrdngahr 227. As it occurs
after Waagird Marguart was forced to the assumption that the original order
of the list had been disturbed; this can no longer be maintained if Minorsky
is sight in placing ‘Andamin (?) in the Lesser Pamir (fudid al.‘ Alam, 332 sq.).
But possibly the name of Zumat can be recognized in the mysterious b, Ea rwy
ws'darh, Abu Khurdadbih 36,17, of which the second part undoubtedly re-
presents spa jzh=Jaz eza, Gaza, Géak (not noticed by Marquart, 218, but cf.
p. 86), while the formor could be restored as yq3 5 32 ymd = Zimad.
WARDGAN-SAH 89

‘this town lay, according to Hiian-ts’ang, ‘south-west from Balkh
in a corner of the Snowy Mountains.”

Let us now consider what evidence we can glean from non-
Manichaean sources. Most important perhaps is the reference to
a Warudan-Sah (wlwe'n MLK’) in the Great Inscription of Shapur I
(end of line 29) which was set up in A.D. 262 (according to my
calculations)!’, about the time when Mar Ammo se! out on his
journey to the Eastern countries. He is mentioned close to the
beginning of the long list of dignitaries who contributed to the
success of Shapur’s reign’®*, after the king of Mosul (Norsirakan),
the king of Kerman, and the Queen of Mesene, but his name cannot
be read with certainty: dsthlt shpwhry *méspy (P); possibly
A matasp was his personal name, and Dastkert-Sahpuhr an addi-
tional honorific name given to him by Shapur’®. This Amadasp
may have been the predecessor of Havazi whom Mar Ammo met
(assuming that HBZ’ was a personal name and not a title), It is
true that | the inscription gives no clue to the location of the
Warutdn-Sah”’; but it indicates that this prince ruled over a
country somewhere at the confines of Iran, and that in the
third century he was a vassal of some importance. We may also re-
cognize the title of Warudan-Sah in the 84 Va) Brj'n-vh (Barutdan-
Sah) who in the list of ‘‘the kings whom Ardashir called
iah’* (Ibn Khurdadbih, 17, 7) is named after the Kadi3-Sah,
the ruler of Herat (or districts near Herat)?*?.

According to the strict rules of the Armenian language, Waruidn
would appear as Vuréun in Armenian. Such a name does indeed
occur in the Armenian Geography, in the list of the provinces of .
the Kast?*), There we tind the following enumeration: Ll’eroz-naacir,
Dzin-Avazah (var, dzinuazak, dzinazuk), Vartan (var. Varjan).
Manian, Géak, Asan, Bahli-bamth:. The name of VPeroz-nawtir
survives in present-day Pir-Na«éir (24 kilometres south of Taskur-

17 Seo BSOUS., ix, 845.

18 In an article contributed to the Jackson Memorial Volume I have given
a full analysis of the passage. [t+ was: sent to Bombay early in 1939, but
has not so far been published.

19 Although such a name would appear suitable to a castle rather than to
a pritice.

20 As a matter of curiosity we may mention that Sprengling apparently
took Warutin for Balochees (AJSLL., liii, 1987, p. 142).

21 Differently Marquart, loc, cit., 31.

22 Marquart, loc. cit., 9.
96 W. B. HENNING

gan, {2 km. west of Hazret-Sultan?’). Manian (Alantsan) represents
the Mak valley according to Professor Minorsky**), Gtak lay due
south of Balkh, Asan in the south-eastern corner of Gézganan,
while Dzin-Avazak or Dzi-Navazak is said to be a name imported
from mythology*’). The sequence of names proves, J think, that
Vartan, too, should be looked for to the south or south-west of
Balkh”), precisely in that region over part of which the Waru¢an-
Sah held sway.

To sum up: in the third century there was a country called
Warucé or Warucaa which lay in the Kushan country just beyond
the traditional border of VPersia. but had been incorporated in the
Sassanian state under Ardashir or (more likely) Shapur I. It
adjoined the country of the Kadishaeans and the valleys formed
by the atHuents of the Upper Murghab. Its king was influential
enough to be mentioned alongside the rulers of such important
provinces as Mosul, Kerman, and Mesene, But in later times its
name seems to have disappeared from history. There can be little
doubt that the country of Warué is the same as that known in later
centuries us Gharch or Gharchistin, while the possibility that
yaré is merely a later form?’ of the word warué cannot be
ruled out,

23° CF. also Marquart, Toc, ctt., 82 sq. 24 Hudiid al-‘dlam, 334

25 Thus Marguart, Erdaniahr, 82 sq: Wehrot, 143 sqq; Catalogue, 34 sqq.
But ef. Minorsky, Joc.cit., 185 sq. Possibly originally Diz-i (17) avazd ‘the
castle of HBZ,” corrupted under the influence of Jis-i ALvdze?

26 Marquart thought of Warwaliz (Qunduz).

27 In disyllables with two brief vowels and not mote than three consonants
the second vowel is liable to elision in several Iranian languages, especially if
the middle consonant is a continuant, cf. e.g. Persian fang ‘Jame’ from
lumak, pukn from pagan; Middle Persian bain ‘temple’ from buzin; Parthian
baxn ‘part, limb” from bayin ; Parachi pag “before” from patzs, Thus warué
provided the -it- was brief, could become waré. Initial w- becomes y- (gh-)
regularly in Parachi, a dialect to which the old language of Gharchistan was
presumably closely related. This change occurs sporadically also in other

dialects, see Morgenstierne, Indo-Lranian Frontier Languages, I. 9.
Virampatnam

By R. E. M. Wheeler

Virampatnam lies on the east coast two miles south of Pondicherry,
in French India. At first sight, this peaceful village of fisherfolk is
scarcely an appropriate vehicle for the commemoration of one who
shared the dust of the Gobi wilderness with the shade of Hiuen
Tsang and, like Alexander, scaled the peak of Aornos. But in its
own degree the exploration of Virampatnam is likely to open, or
at least to chart, some part of an obscure field of knowledge, and
so may claim a faint affinity with the more adventurous pioneering
of him to whose memory the present compilation is dedicated.

The obscure field of knowledge referred to is the earlier archzo-
logy of southern India. Few parts of Asia can be richer in remains
of prehistoric and early historic cultures than is the great expanse of
Archaean rocks which extends southwards of a line from Goa to
the lower Ganges and bears, inter alia, most of the megaliths and _ urn-
fields of India. Few regions so populous and accessible have at the
same time been submitted to so little scientific exploration. It
is high time that Indian archaeology took up the task with method
and determination, and the environs of the village which gives its
name to this note offer a tempting opportunity.

Half a mile behind the village, and sheltered now from the sea
by dunes and palm-trees, the site of an ancient town is being gra-
dually swept away by the Ariyankuppam at a point where the river:
swings northwards to its estuary. Brick foundations are being carved
out of its eastern bank, and sherds and other débris litter the adja-
cent land-surface. As far back as the 18th century, Le Gentil men--
tions these or similar remains, and records a Tamil tradition that
the site was that of the fort of Raja Vira-Raguen and the ancient
town of Virampatnam.’ Thereafter it was not until 1929 that the
place began to attract the attention of the antiquary. In that year
the Rev. Brother R. F. Faucheux, of the Petit Seminaire at Pondi-
cherry, and Mons. N. Lafitte, then Chef du Service de la Pharmacie,
collected semi-precious stones, glass and other objects from the sur-
face. The villagers followed suit, and found amongst other things
an intaglio representing the head of Augustus. This was bought

1 Voyage dans les mers des Indes 4 Uoccasion du passage de Venus sur le

disque du Solin (Paris, 1779-81), I, 542-5.
G2 R. E. M. WHEELER

by Mons. G. Jouveau-Dubreuil, and was subsequently removed
with other relics to the Musée del’ Ecole Frangaise d’Extréme-Orient
at Hanoi, Indo-China. Meanwhile, Mons. Jouveau-Dubreuil invited
Dr. A. Aiyappan’ and Professor K. A. Nilakanta Sastri” from Madras
to visit the sife, and limited excavations were carried out in 1941-2
under the supervision of Brother Faucheux and Mr. P.Z. Pattabiraman.

In these excavations, the levels at which objects were found were
noted with considerable care with reference to an arbitrary datum-
line (mean sea level), and this record, as written on certain of the
actual objects, is of provisional use in grouping them roughly
in bulk. The facts appear to be as follows : —

(i) Beneath two strata of brick structures of uncertain
-plan and date, and at a depth of nearly two feet below
mean sea level and some twenty feet below the average
ground level, is a stratum containing imported Roman pottery,
notably amphorae and red-glazed Arretine ware, the latter
datable to circa A.D. 1-50. Other Roman wares and romanis-
ing local pottery occur at the same depth, together with purely
local products occasionally stamped with the Naga and other
symbols. A few sherds bear graffiti in a Brahmi script which
has been ascribed by Dr. B. C. Chhabra, of the Archaeological
Survey of India, on epigraphical grounds to 200 B.C.-A.D. 200.
The graffiti are mostly fragmentary and are difficult to inter-
pret, but deserve further study. Save perhaps in two instances,
the language is Monumental Prakrit.

(ii) From the same level. and possibly others also, has
been derived an extensive series of beads made from quartz,
amethyst, topaz, agate, jasper, carnelian, and glass, together
with unworked and partially worked stones. The site was
very clearly a focus for the semi-precious stone trade and
related industries. One type of bead in particular is signi-
ficant: the so-called ‘‘collared barrel’ which is distributed

2 Dr. Aiyappan subsequently contributed an atticle on the site to the Hindu
newspaper, Weekly Magazine Section, Madras, 23rd March, 1941.

3 K. A. Nilakanta Sastni, “An inscribed potsherd from Arikamedu,” Journal
of the Madras University, XIV, No. 1. The name “Arikamedu” is that given
to the site by some of the local villagers, but otherwise has no known authority.

4 The Arretine ware includes Ritterling type 5 and Dragendorff types 16,
17 and possibly 11. There are also hard buff imitations, evidently imported,

of Dragendorff type 24/25.
VIRAMPATNAM og

widely in India and is found also in the eastern Mediterranean
area.” At Taxila in the Punjab the type occurs in deposits
dating from the third century B.C. to the first century A. D.,
and it is found on Andhra sites in Hyderabad State (see below),

(iii) The discovery of an untrimmed quartz intaglio
representing Cupid and a bird suggests that Mediterranean
gem-cutters were employed on the site.

Briefly, even on the fragmentary evidence at present available
the site qualifies sufficiently for the status of emporium which Ptolemy
in fact accords to it if we accept its identity with his Podouke
emporion (VII, t, 14).°

In a preliminary note written’ before the excavations of 1941
and before the finding of the Arretine pottery, Mons. Jouveau-
Dubreuil had already hailed the discovery or re-discovery of the site
in no uncertain fashion. ‘‘Nous avons 1a une véritable ville
romaine’, he exclaimed. ‘‘Ce site n'est pas d’intérét local ni
méme d’ Inde et méme de |’Asie; nous avons la des ruines romaines.
Et l'étude de ce site inscrirait une nouvelle page dans |’ histoire
romaine’.” A colder and more calculated appreciation of the
possibilities might have substituted ‘‘footnote’ for ‘‘page’’; the
page had in fact already been written by the numerous classical
historians and topographers who refer to Romano-Jndian trade and
markets, and by modern writers who have catalogued Roman coins
found in India.* But it is neither as a new page nor even asa
new footnote to Roman history that I now signalize the importance
of Virampatnam. It is rather as the preface to a new text-book
of southern Indian archaeology. Let me amplify this.

The Arretine ware, now recognized for the first time in India,
has given a fresh precision to the dating of the earlier part of the
site. It is clear that the stratum from which the sherds and at any

5 See H.C. Beck, “Classification and nomenclature of beads and pendants”,
Archaeologia, LXXVII (London, 1927), and “The beads from Taxila,” Memoirs
of the Archaeological Survey of India, No. 65 (Delhi, 1941).

6 E. H. Warmington, The Commerce between the Roman Empire and India
(Cambridge, 1928), p. 62; G, Jouveau-Dubreuil in Bulletin de Lt Ecole Frangaise
d? Extréme-Orient, XL. (1941), 449. Discussion of this identification cannot be
carried further without fresh evidence.

7 Bulletin, p. 450.

8 A fresh recension of the evidence for Roman coins in India has been pre-
pared by Mr. T. G. Aravamuthan of Madras, and will be published by the
Government Museum, Madras.

7
0407 RE. M. WHEELER

rate eae of the beads came was accumulating not later than A.D. 50,
and may be upwards of half a century earlier. The complex of bead-
forms and stones is distinctive, and it is not peculiar to Virampatnam.
An identical assemblage occurs on two sites in the State of Hydera-
bad; namely Kondapur, 40 miles west-north-west of Hyderabad,
and Maski, 150 miles south-west of the city. At these sites prelimi-
nary excavations have been carried out by the State Department
of Archaeology, and a layer dated by local coins to the Andhra
period (late B.C. to A.D. 250) has been identified. in association
with a bead-industry, including the collared barrel type, similar to
that of Virampatnam. In this layer at Kondapur occurs also a
curious series of clay bullae, copied from early Roman imperial
coins, sometimes with garbled inscription,’ and one actual coin,
said to be of Augustus, has been found elsewhere on the site. It
may be added that in the whole of Hyderabad State only one other
Roman coin-find is recorded. Consistently with this scarcity of
intrusive coinage, the pottery, at any rate at Kondapur where | have
seen a considerable quantity, is devoid of Roman admixture.

The picture, if we may paint one with so limited a‘palette, is thus
an intelligible one. In the interior of the country we have in the first
century B.C. and the first and second centuries A.D. a powerful
Indian kingdom, that of the Andhras, stretching across the northern
Deccan and jealously controlling a number of gem=stone sources. On
the coast are the emporia for foreign trade, some of them witha
nucleus of Mediterranean settlers.'° Souvenirs of the foreigner find
their way occasionally into the interior, but the only real cultural link
between the kingdom and the foreign element in the coastal markets

‘is the pervading craft of the gem-stone cutter. Archaeologically, the
type-fossil of the period is the bead, and it is on a careful study of
bead-forms that South Indian archaeology of this phase is most likely

"to make its first advances.

South of the Andhras the position in the first two centuries A.D.
appears to have been more fluid. On the east the Colas, on the
west the Ceras, and at the southern end the Pandyas were jockeying

g I am informed by Mr. Ajit Mookerjee that similar sub-Roman bullae of
clay and bronze have been found on an ancient urban site between Dhauli hill
and Bhubaneswar in Orissa. Mr. Mookerjee identifies this site with the Mautryan
city of Tosala or Tosali.

10 In addition to Virampatnam, reference may be made to the Temple of
Augustus which the Peutinger Table locates at Muziris, commonly identified
with Cranganore on the coast of Cochin.
VIRAMPATNAM ; 95

for position, with the Colas (in whose territory Virampatnam may
be included) vaguely in the lead. The absence of strong centralised
contro] in this region appears to have opened the way to a more in-
tensive penetration of Roman prospectors or at any rate of Roman
currency, for Roman coins are here found freely in the interior (e.g.
in the Coimbatore district} as well as along the coast.

Such briefly would appear to be the general situation from the
point of view of the student of the Roman exploitation of India
gemmifer. But, as | have already implied, the importance to us of
this commerce in stones lies less in the impact of Roman enterprise
than in the impact of Roman chronology. The possibilities of this
new factor cannot yet be foretold. At Virampatnam itself an exten-
sive Indian culture found in contact with the imported goods awaits
checking and analysis, and will thereafter be the first early South
Indian culture for which a close dating is feasible. At the same time,
further afield there are other possibilities. Both at Maski and at
Kondapur a few sherds of a very distinctive and widespread ware
have been found, as | am told, in the Andhra level. This ware is of
a rich russet colour with simple parallel lines or waves in a thin yellow
slip under a glossy surface. I am credibly informed that this ware
has also been unearthed as a_ primary deposit in a sealed large-cist
grave (or dolmen buried below the surface) in Cochin, and | have
picked it up on ancient town or village mounds at Vellalur and at
Nathamedu near Bogampatti, in the Coimbatore district.’’ Whether
it actually occurs at Virampatnam remains to be seen; but the evi-
dence appear to indicate that it was widely current round about the
beginning of the present era, and that, incidentally, a dominant type
of megalithic tomb was in use at the same time. If this be so—and_
much further evidence is required—we shall for the first time have a
firm base for the study of Indian megaliths.

{ would again, however, emphasise that these preliminary notes
merely indicate lines of research and do not profess to map assured
discovery. For that, much hard work of a pioneer kind is still re-
quired, and will shortly be initiated.

1r A hoard of “silver Roman. coins” is recorded to have been found at
Vellalur. Nathamedu is a new discovery, 1944; a low hill upwards of 1000 yards in,
diameter is thickly littered with potsherds and iron slag.
Some References to Kataha Dvipa
in Ancient Indian Literature

By Dr. V. S. Agrawala

Kataha Dvipa is mentioned several times in Sanskrit and Prakrit
literature as a place situated beyond the sea and reached by ships
leaving the sea-port of Tamralipti. In Prakrit its name occurs as
Kadahadipa. In the inscriptions of Rajaraéja Cola and Rajendra
Cola giving’ an account of their naval conquests, the name of
Kadaram occurs as one of the several places of the East Indian
Archipelago. Both Kadaram and Kataha have been identified with
Kedah in the North West of the Malaya peninsula.

In the Kathdsaritsdgara several stories refer to sea-voyages under-
taken to Suvarnadvipa and Katahadvipa for purposes of trade.
The parable of the Agurudahi trader’ says that a foolish merchant
took a ship-load of black aguru wood as merchandise to be sold
in the Katahadvipa. The people of the land did not know the stuff,
and thus not being able to sell it ‘the merchant converted it into
charcoal. Bragging of his cleverness in thus earning money, the
fellow only exposed his folly.

In another Prakrit work, the Samardiccakahé by Haribhadra Siri,
written about the middle of the 8th century, there are two stories
relating to Katahadvipa. In one of them’ the sea journey 1s
described in detail. A rich merchant named Dhana, living inland,
first went to Tamralipti, but did not make sufficient money from the
disposal of his ware. ‘This strengthened his resolution to earn in-
_creased profit by going in for maritime commerce. It is stated that
sea-faring merchants in those days were earning much more profit
than inland traders. The merchant then equipped a ship with such
goods as were being exported from India to the Eastern Islands and
set sail with a faithful servant and his wife who proved herself
faithless. Asa result of her giving poisoned food, the merchant got
ill, but continued the journey, till at last the boat reached the
shore of Maha-Kataha-Dvipa. Fearing mishap to his own life, he
put his servant Nandaka in charge of the goods; the servant went
ashore with presents to the king of the place who allotted hima
place of residence. Arranging for medical relief to his master, but
seeing no improvement of his condition, Nandaka hurriedly disposed
of the goods and purchasing other importable goods started on the
return journey to the mother country. On the way the ailing

1 Kathasarttsdgara, GO. 2-6. 2 Samardiccakahd, ed. Jacobi, pp. 195-206.
SOME REFERENCES TO KATAHA DVIPA 97

husband was pushed into the sea by the treacherous wife. After
instituting a fruitless search for the merchant, Nandaka perforce
countinued his homeward journey. Fortunately the merchant caught
hold of a floating plank from a previous ship-wreck and after
struggling in water for several days was stranded ashore.

Another story in the same book® also refers to a sea voyage on
business errand from Tamralipti to Katahadvipa. Arunadeva, the
merchant prince of Tamralipti started on a ship loaded with mer-
chandise from that sea-port and sailed for Katahadvipa.- Unfortu-
nately his ship was caught in a storm and lost But the merchant
got support on a loose plank and was able to reach the shore.

In the Brhat-kathamafijari' of the poet Ksemendra the story of
the virtuous lady Devasmita refers to Katakgadvipa, which is no
doubt the same as the Katahadvipa of other works. Dhanagupta
is a merchant of Tamralipta. He once went with his son on a
sea voyage to the Barbara country and there besought the hand
of a beautiful maiden for his son. Although her. father did
not agree, she herself became enamoured of the merchant’s son
and came with them. Their marriage was celebrated on _ their
return to Tamralipta. After his father’s death Guhasena embark-
ed from the port of Tamralipté on a sea-voyage for the in-
crease of wealth. Before starting he obtained from Siva a_ pair
of lotus flowers one of which he gave to his wife, while he kept the
other with himself. The flower would keep its freshness so long
as the couple remained stead-fast in their virtue. Leaving his
faithful wife behind, he after many days reached the Kataksa-dvipa.
There in an assembly of friends he spoke of his wife and the lotus
flower. Four of them thought of testing her virtue and came to
Tamralipta, Each made his advance to Devasmita, but was worsted
in wit and disgraced. The virtuous lady then fearing harm to
her husband from them left for Kataksa-dvipa in the guise of
a merchant. Arriving at the place, she appraised the king of the

whole affair. The king thereupon captured the miscreants and
united her to her husband. The couple returned to Tamralipta
bringing with them great treasure.

These stories incorporated in the Katha literature of the mediaeval
period (8th to Ilth centuries A.D.) show the popularity of the
name Kataha-dvipa which appears to have frequently come to the
minds of the story-writers as part of the motif of naval voyages
undertaken by adventurous merchants during the Sourishing period
of India’s international commerce.

3 Ibid p. 585 4 11 183. p, 60
Editorial Notes

In October 1944 the Managing Committee of the Greater India
Society unanimously elected Dr. Syamaprasad Mookerjee, M.A.,
D.Litt., Bar-at-Law, M.L.A. as its President in place of the late-
lamented Sir P. C. Ray. The Managing Committee of the Society
is grateful to ‘Dr, Mookerjee for kindly accepting the appointment
with effect from the same month. The Committee takes this oppor-
tunity to welcome Dr. R. E. Mortimer Wheeler, D. Litt., Director-
General of Archaeology who has been elected as one of the Vice-
Presidents of the Society.

The first Deccan History Conference is due to be held at
Hyderabad, (Dn.) on the successive days, J0th to 12th April 1945.
The Conference will have as its General President Mr. W. V.
Grigson, Revenue Member, H.E.H. the Nizam’s Government. There
will also be three sections, the Ancient, the Mediaeval and the
Modern, of which Dewan Bahadur S. Krishnaswamy Aiyangar
Professor Haroun Khan Sherwani and Rao Bahadur C. S, Srinivasa-
chari will act as respective Presidents. The Greater India Society
has sent its best wishes to the authorities of the Conference for the
success which they so richly deserve.

_ The Greater India Society welcomes the advent of the Archaeo-
logical Society of South India under the distinguished patronage
of the Vice-Chancellor, Madras University. The Society has made
a promising beginning by publishing as its first Memoir the monograph
“Epigraphical Echoes of Kd4liddsa’’ written by the well-known
Curator of the Archaeological Section of the Madras Government
Museum, Mr. C. Sivaramamurti. We shall be glad to notice this
book in the next number of this Journal.

ee eee eee

Owing to limitations of space imposed by the existing rules, the
Managing Committee of the Greater India Society regrets that the
sections on book-reviews and select contents of Oriental Journals
have to be unavoidably held over till the next number of this Journal.
The Committee equally regrets the delay in the appearance of this
number of the Journal due to the present abnormal situation.
Obituary Notice.
The late Sir Prafulla Chandra Ray, Kt., C.1.E., 0.8c.

In the last number of this Journal we had the melancholy. duty of
mourning the death of the late President of the Greater India Society;
Sir Prafulla Chandra Ray, who has been rightly acclaimed as one of
the greatest Indians of his generation, eminent as a teacher and scho-
lar, as an inspirer of industrial advance in this country, as a philan-
thropist, and as a man of sterling character. In the present number we
give a short sketch of his remarkable career which, it is not too much
to say, will serve as a beacon of inspiration to untold generations of
his countrymen.

Born on August 2, 1861 in a family of moderate means in an
obscure village in the Khulna district of Bengal,Prafulla Chandra Ray
was educated successively at the Hare and Albert schools and the
Metropolitan Institution, Calcutta. Winning the Gilchrist scholarship
of his year, he joined the University of Edinburgh in 1882. There he
stayed till 1888 when he obtained the D.Sc. degree of that Univer-
sity on a_ thesis in Inorganic Chemistry. Returning to India, he was
appointed Assistant Professor of Chemistry at the Presidency College,
Calcutta, in ]889, and he continued his connection with that college
till his retirement in 1916. During these years of strenuous service he
not only established his reputation as a very successful teacher of his
subject, but also published a large number of original papers, and
above all, helped to build an Indian school of chemists which has
since won international recognition. Indeed, it is not too much to
say, that along with his colleague in the branch of Physics, the late
Sir J."C. Bose, he helped to win a place for his countrymen in the
estimation of the world of science in moderntimes. To the same.
active period of his life belongs the publication of his great work en-
titled History of Hindu Chemistry in two volumes (1902, 1908), which
was immediately hailed by discerning critics as a contribution of first-
rate importance to the history of chemical science. During the same
years he took an active part in founding the Bengal Chemical and
Pharmaceutical Works Ltd., which under his fostering care rapidly
developed into one of the largest manufacturers of indigenous drugs
on this side of India. It is melancholy to reflect that with all his
qualifications, he failed to be admitted into the permanent cadre of
the Indian Educational Service, though his eminence was recognised
by the award of the high distinction of Companion of the Order of
the Indian Empire in 1911.
- 100 OBITUARY NOTICE

Retiring from Government service, he was immediately appointed
at the instance of that great educationist, the late Sir Asutosh Moo-
kerjee, the first Palit Professor of Chemistry at the University College
of Science and Technology, Calcutta. This post he held with high
credit till 1936 when he retired for reasons of health. In the congenial
atmosphere of the University he was able to increase his research ac-
tivities still further. What is more, he benefited the University
immensely by his princely donations, derived from savings from his
salary, in the cause of the science which he loved so well. Out of
these endowments, the University has been able to found two Sir
P. C. Ray Research Fellowships in Chemistry, the Nagarjuna Re-
search Prize in Chemistry, and the Sir Asutosh Mookerjee Research
Prize in Zoology and Botany. His invaluable services to the Uni-
versity were fittingly recognised by his appointment as Emeritus
Professor after his retirement, a position which he held till his death.

In this last period of his career Sir Prafulla Chandra Ray—he
was knighted just after the last Great War—earned the heartfelt
love and gratitude of his countrymen by actively encouraging nume-
rous industrial undertakings started by educated Bengali youngmen,
and still more, by his untiring efforts to relieve the misery of the peo-
ple on the occasions of aweful visitations of nature, like the Khulna
famine of 1921 and the North Bengal Flood of 1922.

Schooling himself from the first to a life of almost ascetic simpl-
icity—he remained a bachelor all his life-—Prafulla Chandra
gave away his surplus income in minor charities too numerous to
mention. The Greater India Society which was fortunate enough to
have him as its President for a number of years, profited not only by
his sage advice, but also by his generous patronage.

A man of fine literary taste, the late Sir P. C. Ray delighted in
the study of Shakespeare, Emerson and Carlyle, as also of Rabindranath
‘Tagore. His fascinating autobiography, written in his characteristic terse
idiomatic style, which was called Life and Experiences of a Bengali
Chemist, was published in two volumes (1932, 1935).

In his last years Sir P. C. Ray suffered from an almost complete
breakdown of his health, but he retained his interest in all progressive
movements of his countrymen, passing away peacefully in his room
at the University College of Science—his home for the last thirty years
of his life—on June 16, 1944.

May his soul rest in peace!
Additions to our Library

The Greater India Society acknowledges with thanks the receipt
of the following ‘periodicals, books, ‘pamphlets etc. since the last

notice in JGIS., Vol. X, No. I.

Administration Report of the Archaeological Department. Govern-
ment of Travancore. 1118 M.E. Trivandrum 1944.

Adyar Library Bulletin, Brahma-vidya, Vol. vii, Parts 3-4; Vol. viii,
Parts 1-4; Vol. ix, Part }.

Annals of the Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute, Poona.
Vol. xxiv, Parts 3-4.

Bharatiya Vidya Patrika. Vol. ii (concluded), Vol. iii (in progress).

Bulletin of the Deccan College Research Institute, Vol. iv, Nos. 3-4;
Vol. v, No. |.

Bulletin of the School of Oriental and African Studies. Vol. xi,
Parts [-2.

Columbia University Bulletin of Information. Report of the President
of the Columbia University for 1944.

Indian Historical Quarterly. Vol. xix, Nos. 3-4; Vol. x, Nos. 1-4.
Journal of Andhra History and Culture, Vol. i, No. 3.

Journal of Annamalai University. Vol. xii, No. I.

Journal of the Assam Research Society, Vol. x, Nos. 1-4.

Journal of the Ganganath Jha Research Institute. Vol. i, Parts 2-4;
Vol. ii, Part 1.

Journal of Indian History: Vol. xxiii, Parts 1-2,

Journal of the Sri Venkategvara Oriental Institute. Vol. iv, No. 2;
Vol. v, Nos. 1-2.

Journal of the United Provinces Historical Society. Vol. xvi,
Parts 1-2.

Nagari Pracharini Patrika. Vol. xlvii, Parts 3-4.

Pitt, A. J. A Short Study of the Hindu and Muslim Minds and_ their
Reaction to Politics. Luzac-& Co., London, 1944.

Quarterly Journal of the Mythic Society. Vol. xxxv, No. 1.

Sivaramamurti, C. Epigraphical Echoes of Kalidasa. Memoirs of
the Archaeological Society of South India. Madras, 1944.

University of Ceylon Review. Vol, i, No. 2; Vol. ii, Nos. 1-2,
