oioiteeaby SOO} ont

s
Google
40 fl THE
519 JOURNAL
4 © ad OF THE

4.2, GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

Vou. V duty, 1938 No. 2

EDITED BY

U. N. GHOSHAL

Articles : Pace
Contributions from the Mabavamsa to our knowledge of the
mediaeval culture of Ceylon (Wilhelm Geiger)... ar
Kataba (K. A. Nilakanta Pe 2B

Some Indian parallels of Lokesvara pes in Indo-China ~

(U.N. Ghoshal) .:. as ve 147
Miscellany :

Riseapilanitaka of Afvaghota (E. H. Johnston) 151

Epigraphic Notes (D. C. Sircar)... 154
Obituary “ 157
Notices of Books 159
Eighth International Congress of Historical Sclences, 1938, Zurich 169
Twentieth International Congress of Orientalists, 08, Brussels 173
‘Short Notices os WD
Books Received i oe we 179

(1 plate).
Published by—

THE GREATER INDIA SOCIETY, CALCUTTA

Agents outside India—
Messrs. LUZAC & CO., 46, Great Russell Street, London w. ¢. 1.

Annual subscription—Rs. 4-8 or 8s,-6d., including postage

. SITY OF MICHIGAN
Gor QEENERAL LIBRARY,
GREATER INDIA SOCIETY
AIMS AND OBJECTS

+ To, organize the study of Indian culture in Greater India _[i.e.

Serindia, India Minor, Indo-China and Insulin as well as
in China, Korea, Japan. and other countries of Asia.

To arrange for the publication of the results of researches into the
history of India’s spiritual and cultural relations with the outside
world,

To create an interest in the history of Greater India and connected
problems among the students in the schools, colleges and Univer-
sities of India by instituting a systematic study of those subjects and
to take proper steps to stimulate the same.

. ‘To popularise the knowledge of Greater India by organising mass

meetings, lantern lectures, exhibitions and conferences.

MEMBERSHIP RULES
The annual subscription payable by the members is Rs. 12/- only.

lembers are entitled to receive the publications of the Society at
concession rates and copies of the Journal of the Society free cf cost.

For rates of advertisements, etc.

Apply to the Manager,
GREATER INDIA SOCIETY,

21, Badurbagan Row,
P. O. Amherst Street, Calcutta.

GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

PURODHA

Dr, Rabindranath Tagore. ‘
PATRONS

ja of Pithapuram, Sir B. L. Mitts
MANAGING COMMITTEE FOR

President—Sir P. C. Ray .
Hony. Secretary—Dr. U. N, Ghoshal, Ph.D.
Hony. Joint-Secretary—Dr. Kalidas Nag, D.Litt (Paris).
Hony. Assistant Secretary—Sarasi Kumar Saraswati,
Other members of the Committee—O. C. Gangoly, Es

Suniti Kumar Chatt Litt. (Lond); Dr.

Chandra Bagchi, ;. Dr. Nalinaksha Dutt,
D.Litt. (Lond.); Nath Law, Ph.! Prof.
Vidhushekhara Bhattacharya; Jitendra Nath \erjea,
Esq., M.A.; Dr. Nihar Ranjan Ray, Ph.D., D. Litt.

(Leiden).

Journal Sub-Committee for 1937-38—Dre. U. N. Ghoshal,
Kalidas Nag, Narendra Nath Law,  Nalinaksha Dutt,
Prabodh Chandra Bagchi and Suniti Kumar Chatterji.

Google
‘We apologise to our readers for the delay in publication
of the present number of this Journal, This has been due
to the absence of both the Hony. Secretary, Dr. U. N.
Ghoshal and the Joint Hony. Secretary, Dr. Kalidas Nag on
an European and an Australian tour respectively from
August to October-November last.

Subscribers and members are respectfully requested to
remember that their subscriptions end with the close of the
current year. It is earnestly hoped that they will be good
enough to remit their subscriptions for the next year by the
end of January 1939.

MANAGER,
GREATER INDIA SOCIETY,

Google
THE JOURNAL

GREATER INDIA SOCIETY
Vou Vv duty, 1938 No. 2

Contributions from the Mahavamsa to our
knowledge of the Mediaeval Culture
of Ceylon.

By Dr. WitHeLm GEIGER

(Continued from J.G.1S., Vol. V, No. I.)
Vv
SOCIAL ORGANISATION

10, Raoial and Sooial Differences within the
Population of Ceylon.

A, Arya and Dravida

58. The population of Ceylon was never so homoge-
neous as that of Northern India which had become such in
the course of their historical development. There the Aryan
immigrants who had come from the North-West gradually
mixed with the original non-Aryan population of the
country and finally absorbed it, so that a new race came
into existence which we may call the Indo-Aryan race. It
was spread all over the cultivated area of the country but
it did not come into contact with people of a different race
except perhaps in some frontier districts where the Indo-
Aryans met with aboriginal hill- and forest- tribes.

The development tumed out differently in Ceylon.
Here there was ever a strong antagonism between the Aryan

Google
94 WILHELM GEIGER

and Dravidian races, This antagonism made iteelf more
or less conspicuous in the different periods of Sinhalese
history, but it was never entirely absent owing to the fact
that the Aryans were the older stratum of colonists and
the Damilas came over into the island as later immigrants,
often also as foes and conquerors. Nevertheless the Sinha-
lese people cannot be called a pure Aryan race. From the
beginning of the colonisation a racial mixture surely took
place in Ceylon on the one side with the aboriginal inhabi-
tants of the island, on the other side with the Dravidas
of Southern India.

The firet Aryan immigrants probably came to Ceylon
from North-Western India in the 5th century B.C. The
name or rather surname of their leader is called in the
tradition Vijaya, ‘the conqueror’. They met in Ceylon with
a population of unknown race that was certainly neither
Aryan nor Dravidian, but rather related to the uncultivated
tribes of Southern India. This clearly appears from
the fact that they are called Yakkha (Sk. Yakga) in the
tradition. Another name seems to have been Sabara
(Sk. Sabara), preserved in the modern name of the pro-
vince Sabaragamuva. Both these names are used to
denote barbarous tribes living in the mountains and forests.
Often demoniac qualities are ascribed to them. Sinhalese
Yaka simply means ‘devil.’

It is very probable that the Aryan colonists often con-
tracted sexual relations with aboriginal women. This seems
to be alluded to by the legend told in the Mahavamea 7.9
sq. of Vij marriage with the Yakkhini Kuveni or Kuva-
nna. According to the legend, she bore a son and a
daughter. When afterwards she was put away by her
husband and retumed to the Yakkhas, she was killed by
them, but her children fled to Malaya into the wild moun-
tainous region of Central Ceylon. There they grew up and
the elder brother took the younger sister for his wife and
they became the ancestors of the Pulindas. The word
pulinda too is a designation for uncultivated tribes in India,

Google
CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA = 95

here in Ceylon perhaps for a mixed race believed to have
sprung from the intermarriage of the first Aryan colonists
with aboriginal women. Such may perhaps be the actual
kernel of the Vijaya-Kuveni legend.

59. But we also learn from the chronicle (Mhve. 7.48
aq.) that messengers were sent by Vijaya to Madhura, the
capital of the Dravidian Pandu kingdom, in order to woo
a daughter of the king for himself and also other girls as
wives for his companions, and we are told that they came
to the island and together with them craftsmen and mem-
bers of the various guilds. This is an interesting notice,
and it is not improbable that there is some truth in it. For
the new colony was no doubt in want of such helpers and it
is easy to understand that they were fetched from Southern
India which geographically was the nearest cultivated
country. Thusa strong infusion of Dravidian blood into
the Aryan population of Ceylon must have taken place in
the first period of its colonisation.

We know, however, that before long the Aryan element
in Ceylon was strengthened by immigrants coming from
North-Eastern India. According to tradition, the second
ruler of Ceylon, Vijaya’s successor, was the descendant of a
Kalinga dynasty. From that time onwards an uninterrup-
ted, nay, continually increasing intercourse appears to have
existed between Bengal, Magadha, Orissa on the one side
and Ceylon on the other side. In the third century B.C. the
Buddhist doctrine was preached in Ceylon. The island
became the home of orthodox Buddhism and it has remain-
ed 20 up to the present time.

The relations with the Damilas were very often hostile.
The Sinhalese history (see above 30, J.G.1S. Ill, p. 155 2q.)
is a long series of bloody wars with Pandian (Mhvs. 50.12
q.) and chiefly with Cola armies who invaded Ceylon in
order to subjugate the island and ite inhabitants. The
Northern provinces were often occupied by the foe for many
years, whilst the faithful adherents of the national dynasty
found refuge in the less accessible province of Rohana.

Google
6 WILHELM GEIGER

They always finally succeeded in restoring the indepen-
dence of the Sinhalese kingdom.

We must aleo point to the fact that in Ceylon often when
there were struggles for the throne, one of the candidates
fled to Southern India, and having collected troops there,
came back to the island and tried to win the kingdom with
their help. Thus the custom arose in Ceylon, probably since
the seventh century, of enlisting Dravidian mercenaries,
Damilas, Keralas and Kapnatas in the Sinhalese army.
Their number seems to have been even greater than that
of the less warlike Sinhalese. The Dravidian soldiery fre-
quently caused serious disturbances. They revolted against
their lord, chiefly when they were not sufficiently paid,
plundered the country and seized the property of the
peace-loving inhabitants (44, 134; 45.12 9q.; 54, 66). The
worst time in this respect was the thirteenth century when,
after the reign of the usurper Magha, many Damila merce-
naries were dwelling as they pleased in the villages and
single houses they had forcibly occupied. It was king
Vijayababu Ill, 1232-36, who drove them out and freed at
least the province of Mayarattha from those outrageous
soldiers (81.14). Nevertheless they continued to be a pub-
lic calamity under his successor Parakkamababu II, commit-
ting all sorts of violent deeds, until they were finally
overthrown in a dreadful battle fought near the Kalavapi
tank and had to sacrifice their lives and all their accumula-
ted treasures to the Sthala warriors (83.15-34).

60. Even in times of peace Damilas constantly came
over to Ceylon where they earned their livelihood as
merchants or artisans or perhaps as field-labourers. That
at the end of the eighth century Damilas formed a constitu-
ent element of the population of Ceylon appears from a
notice in Mhvs. 48. 145. There we are told how King
Mahinda II presented bulls to lame people, no doubt
for their conveyance. But if they were Damilas, he
gave them horses, as they would not take cattle for that
purpose,

Google
CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA. 7

‘When at the time of Sena I., 831-51, the Pandu king
invaded Ceylon, all the Damilas who dwelled scattered
here and there, went over to his side and he thereby gained
great power (50. 15). From another passage ( 66. 133)
we learn that in the twelfth century many Damiles were
living in Ceylon in Gajabahu's kingdom. Damilas were
also often in a prominent position at the royal court. Two
of the paramours of Queen Anula, 12-16 A. C., were
Damilas (34. 19. 24 aq.); one of them, Vatuka, was
nagaravaddhaki, i. e. chief of the guild of carpenters and
masons (cf. R. Fick, Social Organisation in North-East India
Time, translated by S, Maitra, pp. 283-4); the
even purohita-brahmana (vide above 34,
J.G.1.S. IV, 1937, p. 81 sq.). The Damila Potthakuttha in
the service of King Aggabodhi IV., 658-74, was a person
of great influence at court. After Aggabodhi's death he
enthroned two successive puppet-rulers, whilst he himself
administered the kingdom (46. 39 sq.) If my correction
of the corrupt passage 49.24 is correct, there existed in
Ceylon even a peculiar Damila group of priests, Damila
Bhikkhusamgha.

In the harem of the Sinhalese kings there were also
Damila women. Sotthisena, the son of King Mahanama,
was sprung from such a woman. He ascended the throne
in the year 431, after father’s death, but was killed by
Samgh&, the daughter of Mahanama and his queen, i. e.
of an equal mother (38. 1-2). Vijayababu I., 1059-1114,
wedded his younger sister Mitta to Panduraja (59.41 ).
The name shows that the husband was an offepring of the
royal family of the Pandu kingdom. Manabharana was
the son of Panduraja and Mitta, and Manabharana's son
was Parakkamabahu the Great, who therefore on his
grandfather’s side had Dravidian blood in his veins.

Such marriages which were the issue of political
considerations and became very frequent in the last
centuries of the Sinhalese Kingdom (cf. 9, J.G. Il, 1935,
p- 100), did not much concern the Sinhalese people in

Google
8 WILHELM GEIGER

general. Nevertheless it is obvious that owing to the
continual influx of Damilas, both soldiers and non-soldiers,
the Sinhalese must have been considerably influenced by
the Dravidian race not only culturally, but also physically
and mentally. But a complete amalgamation of the two
races never took place in Ceylon, The Damilas were
always considered as foreigners, even in times of peace,
and the Sinhalese never lost the consciousness of their
Aryan descent and of their right of political independence.
They even preserved their old Aryan language in spite of
the geographical isolation. The dialect which the first
colonists spoke was probably cognate to that in which the
Western and North-Western inscriptions of Asoka are
composed. In Ceylon it was influenced and enriched by
dialects of Aryan immigrants who came from North-Eastern
India, from Bengal, Bihar and Orissa, so that it became a
mixed dialect which in the sequel developed on the same
lines with all the Indo-Aryan vernaculars. A peculiar
influence of Tamil was certainly not lacking, but it was
not too strong. It isa remarkable fact that in the classical
literature Tamil loan-words are rare in comparison with
those borrowed from Pali and chiefly from Sanskrit. This
clearly shows that the educated Sinhalese earnestly strove
to emphasise the Aryan character of their language.

At the present time one-third (in round numbers) of the
population of Ceylon consists of Tamils. The percentage
may have been nearly the same perhaps a little less, also
during the medieeval period.

B. Classification of the people

61, Frequently in the Mahavamea the whole population
of Ceylon is divided into loka, ‘world’ i.e. ‘lay-congregation’
and sdsana ‘church’, ‘clergy’, ‘priesthood’, often joined
together in the compound lokasdsana. Identical with this
division is that into ‘gihind. men’ and priests (Mhvs. 48.
23) and that into vangd ‘castes’ and assamé ‘hermitages’

Google
CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 9

(72. 145). Protecting and furthering of world and church
was the first duty of a pious king (cf. 52-81; 68.2 ; 69.4
&e &c.).

We easily understand that divison if we consider the
dominant position of Buddhism in the island. According to
ite doctrine, perfect Buddhists are only those who having
abandoned the worldly life have entered the Order and are
striving for salvation. The laymen are but their helpers
and protectors, acquiring thereby the merit (pufifia) which
warrants them a better future existence in the stream of
transmigration. For those who believe in that doctrine
mankind is divided into two large groups viz. priests or
monks on the one side, and on the other side laymen who
belong to the worldly community and are occupied with
worldly tasks.

The word sdsana, it is true, is generally used in Pali to
denote the Buddhist religion and the Buddhist Order, the
samgha. But when it is put in contrast to loka, it must
certainly have a wider sense and include the Brahmanical
clergy together with the Buddhist bhikkhus. It is obvious
that the Brahmana priests cannot be considered as loka.
We know that they played an important part at court and
were by no means disregarded by the people in Ceylon
(vide 33, 34; J.G.1.S. IV. 1937, p. 81 q.); we learn this from
the Mahavamea itself, though the chronicle was compiled
by Buddhist priests.

The ‘priesthood’ itself was therefore bipartite, consist-
ing of samana and brahmana. That samana in this context
means not an ascetic in general, but simply ‘a Buddhist’
priest is confirmed by the fact that we also meet with the
twain bhikkhavo brahmana (50.5.)

62. The foremost social difference was that between
freemen and slaves (dasa). Slavery was a common institu-
tion in India up to the modern times, and the Indian law-
books, the Kautaliya Arthagastra included, contain minute
details concerning it. Four classes of slaves are distinguish-
ed in the Vinaya, ed. Oldenberg IV, 224**, seven in Manu-

Google
100 WILHELM GEIGER

smrti VIII, 415, and fifteen in the Naradasmrti (Breloer,
Kautaliya-Studien Il, p. 30 sq.). It is interesting that in the
Nitinighanduva, a collection of customary laws in Ceylon,
compiled about the year 1818 under British auspices (cf.
Jolly, Hindu Law and Custom, translated by B. K. Ghosh,
p. 95) the classification is the same as in the Vinaya: the
first two classes are those who are born in the house
(antojata) or bought for money (dhanakkita) the third, and
fourth apparently those made prisoners in war (kamara)
and carried off by force (anita).

It is easy to understand that we are unable exactly to
trace this distinction in the chronicle, though it may have
existed in medizeval Ceylon as well as in India. The first
es were no doubt Damilas taken prisoners in war. King
Silameghavanpa, 617-627, after having beaten the Damilas
who had invaded the island in order to conquer the kingdom
for Sirinaga, captured those who remained over from
slaughter, subjected them to all kinds of humiliation and
made them slaves (40.70-73).

Common to all Dasas was the entire want of personal
freedom. They were part of their lord’s property in the
same sense as money, fields and cattle. For their livelihood
they were given a patch of land, called divel in Sinhalese
(H.W. Codrington, Ancient Land Tenure and Revenue in
Ceylon, p. 18). In the houses of rich people, chiefly in the
royal household, the number of slaves seems to have been
very great. They could be given away to other people, if
their lord liked todo so. Silameghavanna distributed the
Damila slaves he had made (see above) here and there to
monasteries. Aggabodhi IV, 658-74, placed slaves at the
disposal of the Bhikkhu community wherever they were
wanted (46.10), and the Damila Potthakuttha who was
serving the same king, having erected a splendid building in
some monastery, could also assign it villages together with
slaves (46.19). King Parakkamabahu | ed in the
hospital built by him at Pulatthinagara, to each sick person,
a male or female slave who had to attend on the patient

Google
CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 101

(73.34-36). Queen Kalyanavati, beg. of the 13th century,
built a monastery in the village Pannasala and granted it
villages, fields and gardens, articles of use and slaves
(80. 35-36). Her general Ayasmanta also created a pari-
vena and supplied it with slaves, male and female (dasidase
80.39). Yet in the 18th century King Kittisirirajasiha is
said to have assigned to the holy Tooth-Relic besides
other precious presents, numerous villages and fields to-
gether with many slaves both male and female (100.11).

As we may infer from the chronicle, it sometimes
happened that people who were indebted or unable to earn
their livelihood, sold themselves and perhaps also their
wives and children to their creditor or to some other rich
man in order to maintain their existence. Under unfortu-
nate circumstances this state could grow into permanent
slavery. But, originally at least and on principle, it was
temporary and could come to an end through redemption.
Parakkamabéhu II is praised for having redeemed nume-
rous people who had been enslaved during the despotic
dominion of the usurper Mai (87. 46-7).

There was always humiliation or abuse in the words
dasa and dasi and they were, therefore, avoided at least by
more sensitive people. King Aggabodhi ViIII., 801-812,
once addressed, probably in anger, one of his slaves with
the word dasa, but he afterwards repented of it; to make
up for this, he allowed the slave to use the same word to-
wards himself (49. 62). This story shows that we have no
reason to assume that the slaves were always ill-treated in
any way by their lords, much less than they were treated
with cruelty. When the officials of a king call themselves
his slaves, as in 70.202, this is, of course, a rhetorical humi-
liation.

In Sinhalese the word for female slave is midi which
derives from Sk. P. munditd, ‘shaved’. This shows that in
former times a female slave was not allowed to wear long
hair, but had to shave her head when she was taken into a
family.

2

Google
toz WILHELM GEIGER

63. A somewhat different social position was enjoyed
by the kammakara. The word is often combined with
dasa, even in the form of a compound, as also the corres-
ponding Sk. word karmakara. In the Kautaliya (2nd ed.
Shama Sastry, p. 142, trel.178-9) the Karmakara-dasah are
enumerated as property of a man along with biped and
quadruped animals; in the Jatakas (Ill, 129%) they are
mentioned as belonging to the household of a rich merchant
(R. Fick, op. translated by Maitra, pp. 262, 305). In
the same manner according to the Mahavamsa Dasas and
Kammakaras depended on a lord who had legal authority
over them. In the disturbed times which preceded the
reign of Parakkamababu in the 12th century, both classes
revolted against their lords (sdmino 61.68). But the Kamma-
karas were not personally unfree like the slaves, though
their freedom was limited by certain restrictions. They
had to perform some work for their lord at regular intervals
or certain occasions, as for instance during the harvest or
when new buildings were to be erected. As payment for
this service a small estate, a divel, was assigned to them,
from which they could gain their livelihood. The labour
was substituted for the rent. Sometimes Kammakara is
rendered by ‘hired labourer,’ but, I think, the translation
‘ser? would be more appropriate.

The designation kammakara does not imply humilia-
tion as does the word dasa. Ina broader sense itcan be
used for any person who is bound to perform orders pres-
cribed for him by a superior. Thus in 47.33 the petty
officers of an army commanded by a general are called by
this title; the same designation is used (46.13) by the chro-
nicler for the Damila Potthakuttha at King Aggabodhi 1V’s
court (cf. above 60). In such cases we have simply to
translate the word as ‘servant.”

The Kammakaras could, like the slaves, be given away
to another lord. In this case they were appointed to render
the new lord the same service that they had rendered
formerly to the old one. Sena J., 831-51, is said in 50.64

Google
CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 103

to have granted slaves and serfs to a monastery he had
built on the Arittha mountain. By King Vikkamabahu II.,
1116-1137, the ‘royal workmen’ (rajakammika, 62.43) were
ordered to rebuild ruined temples and relic-shrines and
destroyed tanks. Here probably the kammakaras in the
royal service are to be understood.

The word kammakara ought not to be confounded with
harmakéra, the latter being no technical term but simply
denoting a man who has to perform some work, a ‘work-
man’ in the most general sense.

64. Often, after all, a distinction is made in the chro-
nicle between kulind people of good family and ‘hina’
‘people of the lower classes.’ 1 need not say that this
distinction concerns but the Iai In the later parts of
the chronicle, from ch. 80 onwards, the word kulina is
generally replaced by kulaputta.

Since kulina is derived from kula, and kula is used to
denote a family or clan of the nobility, kulina meansa
nobleman. A few clans are mentioned in the chronicle
by names: (1) Lambakanna, (2) Moriya, (3) Kulinga,
(4) Taraccha, (5) Balibhojaka. The name of the Sthal& will
be discussed separately. The five names quoted above
denote animals: lambakanna is ‘hare’ or ‘goat’, moriya
‘peacock’, kuliiga means a bird, the ‘fork-tailed shrike’,
taraccha is ‘hyena’ and balibhojaka ‘crow’. This clearly
shows that the Sinhalese clans had a totemistic character.
A peacock was, for instance, the emblem and perhaps the
mythical ancestor of the Moriyas.

Of all these clans the Lambakannas were nearest to,
and probably formed a branch of, the royal dynasty. Many
of them wore the crown themselves in Ceylon, some
already in ancient times and at the beginning of the
medieeval period. This was the case with King Samghatissa
and his successors between the years 362 and 431 A.C.
In the seventh century Larnbakannas were alternating with
members of the royal family. Five Lambakanyas, mention-
ed by name, were entrusted by Parakkamabahy | with the

Google
104 WILHELM GEIGER

enlistment of soldiers for the army he wanted when
beginning the struggle for the throne (69.12-13). In a
religious feast celebrated by the same king Lambakannas
played a part with other people of the noblest families
(mahakulind, 74. 213-4). It is noticeable that Lambakannas
also existed in Southern India. They had to perform
certain functions at the coronation festival of Virapandu in
Madhura, which was arranged by Parakkamabahu I (77.25).

Next in rank to the Lambakagnas seem to have been
the Moriyas. With Dhatusena a scion of this clan ascended
the throne about the year 460 A.C., and thereafter the
Moriyas reigned over sixty years. The Taracchas and the
Kulingas apparently came to Ceylon along with the bough
of the sacred Bodhi-tree which was planted at Anuradhapura

” in the Mahavi (19.2). In the Cilavamsa the Taracchas
are mentioned only in 42.30. People of the Taraccha clan
had to convey the statue of the thera Mahinda to the bund
of the Mihindatata tank constructed by King Aggabodhi I,
568-601. About the end of the 12th century a Kulinga, Mahin-
da by name, treacherously slew King Vi ahu Il., but he
was himeelf killed after five days by the indignant inhabit-
ants of the country (80.15. sq.). The Balibhojakas are
mentioned but once in the later Mahavamsa (85.1). Here
the elders (jeftha) of the clan are said in 85.51 to have
participated in a great festival, celebrated by Parakkama-
bahu II in the thirteenth century. They had to fend off,
it seems, by certain ceremonies or incantations all influences
emanating from evil spirits which could disturb the course
of the feast.

It is doubtful whether the name monasiha (90.7) also
denotes a totemistic clan. The monasihas were nine
brothers who, bribed by the treacherous general Mitra,
tried to murder the rightful heir to the throne Bhuvaneka-
bahu I, the son of Parakkamabahu II. Non-totemiatic i
the clan-name Girivamsa (91.4), if this does not
mean ‘highland tribe.’ A scion of the Gii
powerful minister Alagakkonata of Vikkamal

Google
CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 105,

There may have been more totemistic clans in Ceylon
than the five enumerated above. But it is not necessary,
I think, to assume that they were of non-Aryan origin.
Totemism is a world-wide superstition and was by no means
unknown to the ancient Aryans. Among the gofra-names
there are many of totemistic character, which are taken from
the names of animals or plants (H. Zimmer, Studien zur
Gesch. der Gotras, Diss. Berlin 1914). The Kasyapas
are the ‘tortoise-men’ from Sk. kafyapa. The name of
the Mandikas is derived from mandaka, frog; that of the
Saunakas, Aurnavabhas, Kapeyas from éunaka, ‘dog,’
drnanabhi, ‘spider,’ kapi, ‘ape;’ that of the Aévatthya from
aévattha, ficus religiosa, &c. Moriya, the name of Candra-
gupta’s and Asoka’s clan, is the same word as moriya in
the Mahavamea (cf. A. Griinwedel, Buddhistische Kunst,
p- 72; Mhvs ika, ed. Malalasekera I 18075). The form
maurya is a Sanskritisation of the Middle-Indian moriya,
and the name of Candragupta’s mother Mura who became
the female ancestor of the whole clan, is but an etymologi-
cal invention in order to explain the Sk. word maurya:

65. The name Sihala is iteelf a totemistic clan-name.
It refers to the oft-quoted legend of Sihabahu, the son of
‘a lion (Siha) and a Vanga princess (Mbvs. 6.1 9q,). The
home of this legend is Kalinga, it is therefore an Aryan
legend. Sihapura (59°46) is the name of the Kalinga capital.
When soon after the colonisation of Ceylon by Aryans the
influence of North-Eastern In: bacame decisive for the
further development of its ation, the legend was
combined with the story of Vijaya who was made the eldest
son of Sihabahu and given the name Sihala. The name was
also conferred on his companions (7.42), and the original
clan-name was thus amplified and it was used from that time
onwards as designation of all the inhabitants of Ceylon.
This clearly shown by expressions like ruler of the Sihala
(Sihaladhipa), Sihala-language (Sihal@ nirutti), &c. Ceylon
itself was called Sihala-dipa, ‘Island of the Sthalas’), as
from ancient times Lanka-dipa, and the Sihalas were often

Google
106 WILHELM GEIGER

contrasted with other people like Damilas, Ramafifias,
Javakas. But in 54.9-11 we have the interesting notice
that King Mahinda IV., 952-72, had fetched from India a
princess born in the clan of the Kalifga rulers and made her
his first queen. Two sons and one daughter were borne
by her, and thus Mahinda founded the Sihala clan (Sihala-
vamsam). Apparently the remembrance of the old Kalinga
legend concerning Sihabahu and Vijaya along with his
successors gave rise to this story. Thus the ancient clan-
name was readopted by the Sinhalese kings in the medize-
val period.

The foremost clan in Celyon was the royal clan (raja-
vamea 46.42; 52.16). The members of this clan traced
their descent not from Vijaya, but from the fourth Sinhalese
King Pandukabhaya (Sinh. Paduabha). According to the
legend, Vijaya died without legitimate offepring; hie succes-
sor was his alleged nephew Panduvasudeva, a grandson of
Sthabahu, who came from Kalinga (8.1 #q-). The historical
kernel of the legend may be the fact, mentioned above in
59, that soon after the Aryan colonisation of Ceylon
numerous immigrants came from India into the island.
Panduvasudeva’s daughter Ummadacitti is said to have had
intercourse with young Dighagdmani, son of the Saki;
prince Dighyu, who had arrived in Ceylon during that king
reign. Ummédacitta gave birth to a son who was named
Panduk&bhaya. This king and his descendants therefore
belonged to the Sakiya (Sakka) clan from which the Buddha
came forth. At the head of this clan stands the mythical
King Okkaka, the Ikeviku of the Indian Epics, the foundet
of the Solar line. In Buddhist literature this line is traced
yet further back to king Mah&sammata. We understand
therefore that the legitimate Sinhalese kings regard as their
ancestor either Okkaka (in inscriptions: Okd-vas raj para-
puren bat=P. Okkaka-vamsa-raja-paramparaya bhattha) or
Mahasammata (Mhves. 47.2), and that they often boast of
their descent from the Sakiya clan, mentioning the Buddha’s
father Suddhodana ae ance: The Lambakanpas and

Google
CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 107

Moriyas were, | think, branches of the Solar line, and
probably also other Sinhalese clans. They never seem to
have been regarded as usurpers when they ascended the
throne.

66. After this excursion into the legends and history of
the Sinhalese clans | shall revert now to the differentiation
between kulind and hina.

Wherever the kulind are mentioned in the chronicle,
they are somehow or other connected with the royal family
and with the government. They were the supporters of the
kingdom and its tower of strength. From the kulas the
officials were taken both in civil and military service, pro-
bably in hereditary succession. The greater landed pro-
prietors also belonged to the nobility, in contrast with the
leaseholders who cultivated parts of their property and had
to payarentto the owner. Often the kulind may have
been the first settlers in any district of the country. They
had for cultivation cleared the wilderness and founded a
village which was inhabited by families of the clan and
their descendants. This appears from the term kulagama
which occurs in 38.38.

It also happened that noblemen opposed the king.
When in the fifth century the Damilas, altogether six rulers,
held sway in Ceylon, most of the kinsmen of the noble
families (jana kutind, 38.12) betook themselves to Rohana
as their refuge. But some of them attached themselves to
the Damilas. When Dhatusena succeeded in annihilating
the foreign dynasty, he severely punished thoee treacherous
noblemen by depriving them of their villages and leaving
these villages defenceless.

The kings protected and furthered the noblemen for
their own interest. Vijayabahu I., 1039-1114, is said to
have chosen people of good family and charged them with
his protection, and they were his permanent bodyguard
(60.1). Parakkamabahu | thought it hie duty to protect
those people of noble birth who had been ruined, by plac-
ing them in their rightful position (73.7). Women of good

Google
108 WILHELM GEIGER

family (kulind itthiyo, kulitthiyo) were treated with much
respect. King Udaya I, 792-7, used to present such
women, if they were widowed (anathd), with ornaments,
and when they were in want, he handed them food at night
(49.35). Vijayabahu gave them villages, food and clothing
according to their deserts (60.78).

The low-class people were, of course, first and foremost
the Dasas and Kammakaras and all the beggars and other
poor people. They comprised probably also the lease-
holders of smaller pieces of land who depended on the
owner of the estate, and the lower artisans, such as black-
smiths, potters, washermen and others, who were consider-
ed to be the village-servants (Sinhtovilkdrayd, H. W.
Codrington, Land Tenure, p.1.)

It was always a symptom of decline, when people of the
lower classes exerted influence on the ruler. King Sena V,
972.81, liked the company of low-class favourites hinaja
vallabha jana. He induced by them to take intoxicat-
ing drinks and thus ruin his health, so that he died after a
short reign while still youthful in years (54.70-72). In the
greatly disturbed times during the first half of the twelfth
century, the four princes who had occupied the different
provinces slighted in their heedless way people of good
family and placed ambitious men of lower classes (hine
jane) in leading positions. The princes forcibly seized the
possessions of the nobles who scattered here and there and
hid themselves in divers places (61-50-52, 62). Manabha-
rapa’, lying on his deathbed, bitterly repented of having
seized the treasures endowed by sons of good family to the
Tooth-Relic and the relic of the sacred Alms-bow! (72.302
2q:)

It was Parakkamabahu, afterwards surnamed the Great,
who with a high hand made an end of this chaotic state of
things.

Google
CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 109

V. SOCIAL ORGANISATION
11. Caste-System

A. Preliminary remarks

67. Hardly any part of the Indian culture has so fre-
quently and so amply been discussed by scie1 as the
caste-system. It may be sufficient to refer here to the well-
known and oft-quoted work of E. Senart, Les castes dans
Unde, les faits et le systeme, Paris 1896, and to that of
R. Fick, The Social Organisation in North-East India in
Buddha’s Time, translated by S. Maitra, Calcutta, 1920.

The Indian caste-system, as it has been built up by the
Brahmanas and is described in the Brahmanical literature,
is no doubt to a large extent a theory and often out of keep-
ing with facts. According to this theory, the Indian people
are divided into four castes: Brahmana, Keatriya, Vaisya,
Sidra. The first three are the light-coloured Arya, the
Sidras the dark-coloured original inhabitants of the country
who had been subjugated by the Aryan invaders. Hence
the word varna ‘colour’ as designation of a caste. Each of
the four castes had its peculiar profession: the Brahmanas
were the priests, the Keatriyas the warriors, the Vaiéyas
the agriculturists and the Siidras the artisai

The tripartition of the Arya is very ancient. It existed
already in pre-Vedic times, for it is met with among the
Old Iranians. In the Avesta people are divided into
priests (atharvan), warriors (rathadgta, lit: one who fights
from a carriage) and farmers (vdstrya feuyant, lit: cattle-
breeding agriculturist). -The opposition to the non-Aryan
aboriginal tribes (daha &c.) is also emphasised in the
Avesta. .

The Brahmanical theory of the four castes may have
been adequate to the facts in the oldest Vedic period. The
Aryan tribes which successively invaded North-Western
India, were semi-nomads, while the original inhabitants
were living in towns occupying a more advanced stage of

8

Google
ito WILHELM GEIGER

civilisation. The invaders occupied the open country for
their agricultural purposes; the non-Aryans, called dasyu,
had to work for them as craftsmen. This was the first
line of demarcation, separating the conquerors from the
subjugated Dasyus. Among the Arya the priesthood had
its prominent position since pre-Vedic times. The bulk
of the people engaged in cattle-breeding and agriculture
and they enjoyed the protection of the most warlike
families. These ‘warriors’ were probably also land-owners,
but, being engaged in martial exercises, they did not
cultivate their lands themselves but got them cultivated
by the farmers as payment for protection.

In the course of historical development, when the
Aryan rule was established in Northern India, the Brahma-
nical theory more and more ceased to be in accordance
with the actual conditions.

The Brahmanas, it is true, continued to lay claim
to superiority and remained a close caste. But many
of them could not earn their livelihood by priestly work
and were compelled to go in search of some worldly
occupation. The Keatri were no longer ‘warriors’,
when the conquest of the country was finished and the
race of the aboriginal inhabitants was absorbed by that
of the invaders. But they kept alive their glorious family
traditions and were conscious of their descent from the
victorious classes under whose leadership the Aryans had
conquered their new dwelling-plac They split up into
many clans which sometimes came into conflict with one
another by rivalry. Gradually they became the ruling
class in the state, the nobility and the representatives of
Political power with the king at their head. In the eyes
of the people they were no doubt superior to the Brahmanas,
and in the whole Buddhist literature the Keatriyas are
always assigned the first place in the list of castes. They
even emulated with the Brahmanas in learning and religious

study and were the proper guardians of the deep thoughts
contained in the Upanigads.

Google
CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 11

68. Yet more far-reaching were the changes and
innovations in the Vai nd Sidra castes. Owing to the
progressive amalgamation of the races the distinction
between these two castes was more and more effaced.
Moreover, many Aryans were unable to gain their living
by agriculture and had to learn arts and handicrafts from
those whom their ancestors had subjugated. Thus, although
they originally ranked among the Vi they were on
a level with Sidras and their social position began to
depend on the more or less reputable character of their
occupation.

With the progress of civilisation new professions came
up and their representatives were anxious to separate them-
selves from those whom they considered to be lower in
status owing to their pursuit of a less reputable occupation.
The two old castes were thus gradually split into numerous
professional groups which could be called vanna ‘castes’,
but in a modified sense of this word.

By intermarriage of persons belonging to different groups
new castes were formed, so that their number was constantly
increasing. The rigid Brahmanical caste prescriptions,
however, concerning endogamy, heredity, purity and
pollution and the like, were by no means forgotten, but
were observed in the Brahmana caste and transferred in the
Keatriya caste to the single families and clans, and in the
lower classes to those numerous professional group:

Such seems to have become the social organisati
the Buddhist times, and it has been depicted with the help
of the Jatakas in an admirable manner by R. Fick in the
work quoted above. It would be erroneous to look upon
the Buddha asa social reformer who destroyed the severe
limits fixed by caste in India. He merely taught the
worthlessness of caste as means of acquiring salvation.
The Buddhist Order was open irrespective of caste to all
individuals, who having abandoned the worldly life were
striving for Nirvana. For the members of the Order caste
rules had ceased to exist, but they did not lose their

Google
m2 WILHEEM GEIGER

rigidness for the laymen. The Brahmanical theery was 20
strongly embedded in the minds of the Buddhists that they
spoke of it and discussed its value in their literature, though
they were certainly well aware of its incongruity with the
real facts of life.

69. The first Aryan immigrants in Ceylon, of course,
brought with themselves into their new home the tradition
of a social organisation conforming to that which existed
at that time (about the 4th century A. C.) in Northern India.
It must have been very similar to the organisation depicted
in the Jatakas. Owing to the uninterrupted traffic with
North-Eastern India it developed in Ceylon on the same
lines as there. The Brahmanical theory of the four castes
has not entirely lost its vitality in medieval Ceylon and
the old phraseology connected with the institution is
sometimes preserved in single cases. Yet at the beginning
of the 13th century the expression ‘the four castes’ (catub-
bannd, Mhvs. 80. 41) occurs as paraphrase for the whole of
society. They had become impure by mixture (samkinna),
but were scrupulously separated and purified by Ayasmanta,
the general of queen Kalyanavati. This notice points ia
conventional form to a social upheaval caused by inter
marriages between families of lower and higher classes
which were repugnant to a more conservative and aristo-
cratic mentality. Even in the Niti-nighanduva (cf. above
in 62) four castes are distinguished, though they did not
exist in reality for many centuries past. But it is remarkable
that instead of the Sidras the Goyi-vamsa, the caste of
agriculturists, is put in the fourth place.

If we leave aside the comparison with India and
simply try to depict the social organisation in Ceylon
from the Mahavamsa we see that the bifurcation of
the society into loka and sdsana and again that of
the laity into kulind and hind (cf. above 64) plays a
much more important part than caste according to the
Brahmanical system. This may partly be due to the
fact that the chroniclers were Buddhist priests who did

Google
CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 113

not care much for caste, but it also seems to point to
a social development beyond the stage described in the
Jatakas. The final result of that development comes out in
modern times, when, after the fall of the native kingdom,
both the Brihmana caste and the nobility inseparably
connected with it has entirely disappeared from the
Sinhalese society. According to Cordiner, Description of
Ceylon, 1, 1807, p. 93, there existed in Ceylon only profes-
sional castes, nineteen in number who all live as distinct
tribes, and intermarry only with persons of their own rank
and profession, Enumerated according to their rank they are:
|. agriculturiste, 2. keepers of cattle, 3. fishers, 4. toddy-
drawers, 5. mechanics (such as carpenters and goldsmiths),
6. tanners, 7. potters, 8, washers, 9. cinnamon-peelers,
10. porters, II. sieve-makers, 12. barbers, 13. lime-
burners, 14. tom-tom beaters or drummers, 15. makers of
charcoal, 16. palanquin-bearers, 17. mat-weavers; 18, exe-
cutioners and 19. Rodiyas are outcastes.

B. Brahmanas and Kgatriyas

The Brahmanas (synon: vippa=Sk. vipra, dija=Sk.
dvija) were always priests and their privilege was the perfor-
mance of the religious rites prescribed in the Vedas. They
were honoured and supported by the king in the same
manner as the Bhikkhus, and we know already the im-
portant and influential position which the Brahmanas, and
foremost the Purohita, had at the royal court (cf. above
34, J.G.LS. IV, 1937, p. 81 sq.). Near his palace king Parak-
kamabahu I erected two buildings which were reserved for
Brahmanical purposes. In the building called hemaman-
dira, ‘Golden House’ the Brahmana priests performed the
ceremonies of expiation in the dhdranighara ‘House of
spells’ they recited magic incantations (Mhvs. 73, 71).

‘The réle the Brahmanas played at court clearly shows
the admirable vitality of their theories and doctrines, and
it indicates how deep-rooted they were still in the minds

Google
114 WILHELM GEIGER

of the Indo-Aryans many centuries after they had lost their
Practical consequences. But not all Brahmapas in Ceylon
were living at court and serving the king. The Hindu cult,
though considerably inferior to Buddhism, was not perese-
cuted there or annihilated. Temples of Siva and Vigqu
stood in the towns; they have been detected amid the ruins
of Polonnaruva and partly restored. In all these sanctua-
ries no doubt Brahmanas were officiating, and they certain-
ly also displayed much activity in all sorts of charms, au-
gury and astrology, belief in which even in modern times
is wide-spread in Ceylon. Among the spies sent out by
prince Parakkamabaéhu when he wished to find out the
actual conditions in Gajabahu’s country, there were also
people disguised as Brahmanas and ascetics (tapasa, 66,
132, 135). They were wandering like unto pious pilgrims
from village to village in order to take the opportunity of
investigating and influencing the political views of the
People.

One thing, however, remains doubtful. It is a well-
known fact that in post-Vedic times many members of the
Brahmanical caste in Northern India had to eam their live-
lihood by non-priestly more or less reputable occupations.
But they did not lose their caste, for they belonged to it by
birth, Such Brahmanas are aptly called ‘worldly Brahma-
nas’ by R. Fick, op. cit., p. 192 sq., 212 sq. If such Brah-
manas existed at all in Ceylon, they were certainly few in
number. I can only quote one expression in the whole
chronicle which perhaps may refer to worldly Brahmanas:
that is vanibbino-brahmana in 73. 32 (cf. below 77 sub-
finem). It is true, the percentage of Brahmanists as com-
pared with Buddhists was no doubt smaller in Ceylon than
in Bengal or Orissa, and the chances of living by priestly
function alone were yet smaller than in India. But, on the
other hand, in a country where Buddhism was so predomi-
nant as in Ceylon, it was perhaps easier and not so dis-
honourable for a Brahmana, when he was reduced to
poverty, to leave his caste and to enter into one of those
professional groups which had come into existence in the

Google
CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 115

Buddhist era as branches of the former Vaiéya and Sidra
castes.
71. The word Khattiya=Sk, Kgatriya, frequently occurs
in the medieval Mahavamesa, but it does not denote the
warrior caste or even a caste at all. The caste, as we have
seen, was split up into a great number of families or clans
(kula, vamsa, gotta) who often rivalled and sometimes were
even at feud with one another; wars were fought by a militia
called out in times of emergency and by an active army of
mercenaries. The Khattiya is simply a man of the highest
class, a nobleman, a prince. Synonyms with khattiya are
bahuja (Mhvs. 59. 2) and rajafifia (89. 27)=Sk. rajanya.
The former reminds us of the old Bhahmanical legend,
according to which the Kgatriya caste sprang from the arm
of the god Brahma. The latter is met with in the triad
raja-rajafifia-mantino, ‘king, noblemen and dignitaries,’ who
are the firm foundations of the state.

Frequently the title khattiya is given by the chronicler
to the prince who in legal succession ascends the throne.
Such phrases as ‘now his brother next in age, the prince
(khattiyo) Kassapa became king’ (48. 20) often occur in
the older part of the Calavamsa. At the head of the whole
nobility stands the king. In 73. 137 Parakkamabahu I. is
glorified as ‘the highest flag of the Khattiya clans’ (kha-
ttiya-vams’-ekaketu) and in inscriptions of the tenth century
kings are called ‘the pinnacle of the Khattiya clans’ (kat-
kula-kot=P, Khattiya-Kula-kunta) as for instande Kaseapa
IV and Dappula IV. (Ep. Z, II 414." I 127A.?" Or they
even boast of ‘having made the other Khattiya clans their
vassals’ (an két-kula pamili kala=P, afifie khattiya-kule
Rada-mile kata) as Udaya Ill (Il) and Kassapa V. (Ep. Z,
III, 193A;*7 1 221), The peculiar title ‘Great Lord’ (maha-
samin) seems to have been reserved to the scions of the
royal clan. Dappula, an offspring of Okkaka, afterwards
king Dappula IV., 650 A.C, is given this title in 45. 50, and
in 57. 24; 30, 49); it is given to all the noblemen born in the
clan of Manavamma who was a descendant of the same

mythical king.

Google
116 WILHELM GEIGER

72, The Khattiyas had their own laws, the khatta-
dhamma (Mhvs. 67. 91.). Versed in these laws valid for
the nobility, prince Parakkamabahu, at a favourable cons-
tellation, celebrated the festival of the binding on of the
frontlet denoting the rank of a Mahadipada. We do not
hear much in the chronicle about the details of those laws.
The marriage-rules may have been included in them. There
existed no strict endogamy within the single clans. Exam-
ples of intermarriage between them are often reported. A
younger sister of the Moriya Moggallana I., 496-513, was the
consort of the Lambakanna Silakala (39. 44-5; 41. 7; J.
Still, Index to the Mahdvamsa, p. 81, Ill). Moggallana, the
son of prince Kassapa (afterwards king Vikkameabahu I.)
and father of Kitti (afterwards king Vijayabahu I.) was a
scion of the royal clan and bore the title ‘Great Lord’
(57. 29-30). He married Lokita? who was the daughter of
Bodhi (57. 41), a descendant of the Lambakanna Datho-
patissa. Mahinda IV., 956-72 is said to have fetched a
princess from Kalifiga and made her his queen, though there
was a race of Khattiyas in Lanka’ (54, 9). It ie implied in
this notice that he could woo as an equal consort a daughter
of each of the Khattiya clans in Ceylon.

Equality of birth was the first requisite in a nobleman’s
marriage, and all the Khattiya clans were equal to each
other. As to the intermarriage of the Sinhalese royal
family wih foreign dynasties | refer to what is said
above in 2-3, J.G.S. Il, 1933, pp. 91-93*). The Solar and the
Lunar line (Kaliiga and Pandu) were considered to be
equal to the Sinhalese kings, but not the dynasty of the
Colas, nor the Arya line of the Rajputs.

At all events the most aristocratic marriage seems
always to have been that with a daughter of the same clan.
In several inscriptions (cf. Ep. Z, 1 221?) it is emphasised
that Dev Gon (the Queen of Kassapa V., 913-23) was of the

* I wish to comect a mistake on p. 93. We have to read
on 1. 15 ‘daughter’ (of Jagatipala) instead of ‘consort’ and on I. 16
‘Lilavati's (daughter) instead of ‘his.”

Google
CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 7

same family (e-ma kulen=P. ten’eva kulina) and therefore
equal to him in birth (sama-d@=P. sama-jati). Is this
perhaps the reminiscence of an older endogamous Khattiya
law?

That certain rules were observed by the Khattiyas as
regards eating is shown by a story narrated in 47. 9. #q.
We learn from it that a Khattiya would never eat remnants
of a Khattiya meal, for then he would admit himself to be
of a lower caste. Prince Manavamma, when he lived as a
refugee in Southern India, was riding one day with his
friend the Pandu king Narasiha on the back of the same
elephant. Narasiha, feeling thirsty, drank a cocoanut and
then gave it to his friend. Manavamma hesitated to
accept it owing to the clan regulations, but finally he made
up his mind to drink. Narasiha at once understood the mis-
take he had made and drank now himself in turn what
Manavamma had left. Thus it was manifest that they
considered one another to be equal in rank.

C. Professional Castes and Outcastes

73. In the old Mahavamsa (3. 3) Vessas (Sk. Vaisya)
and Suddas (Sk. Sidra) are mentioned side by side with the
Keatriyas and Brahmanas. They all were present when
the body of the Buddha was burnt at Kusinara. Here we
meet with the ancient Brahmanical theory of the four castes.
The word vessa is also preserved in the name of the famous
monastery Vessagiri near Anuradhapura. The name is
d in Mhvs. 20. 15 by the legend that five hundred
Veseas were dwelling in the monastery after they had been
admitted into the Order by the thera Mahinda.

Notices of such kind are missing in the medieeval parts
of the chronicle. The word sudda does not occur at all in
the Cilavamsa, while vessa occurs in one passage only,
76. 264, which however does not refer to Ceylon, but to
South-India. The Vessas and the Yavanas of the Pandu
kingdom are related to have brought presents to the victori-
ous general of Parakkamabahu I. who distinguished them by

4

Google
118 WILHELM GEIGER

countless marks of favour. The Vessas denote here the
peaceful agriculturists who had suffered much by the war,
and the Yavanas probably the Moorish traders who were
carrying on their business in South-India as well as in
Ceylon. Cf. E. R. Ayrton, Note on the Mahawansa (Ceylon
Notes and Queries I, Oct. 1913, p. VIII).

The general word by which all kinds of occupation, arts
and handicrafts, are expressed, is sippa (Sk. silpa). People
who understood or practised any art or handicraft are called
sippino or sippikd. These words also frequently occur in
the canonical Buddhist literature and in the Jatakas.

When in the thirteenth century Vijayabahu, who had
taken over the burden of the government at his father’s
(Parakkamabahu II’s) order, wished to restore the temple of
the Tooth-Relic at Jambuddoni, he fetched from all parts of
the kingdom many groups of artists (bahia sippigane) ex-
perienced in every branch of art. Many artists (bahi sippi-
jana) were also employed by the same ruler in the restora-
tion of the buildings of Anuradhapura (88. 13, 85).

Concerning North-Eastern India during the brightest time
of Buddhism R. Fick, op. cit-, p. 327, says: ‘The distinction
between castes (jati) and occupations (sippa) has gradually
been obliterated and in modern times has been almost
wholly abolished.” We may add that the process has
practically come to an end in mediseval Ceylon. Caste
means a group of families practising the same profession,
the profession most probably being hereditary. In con-
nexion with this change the old terms vanna or jati become
more and more obsolete and are replaced either by sippa or
by the more general words vagga (Sk. varga) or gana (Sk.
idem) both meaning ‘group’. These groups may be called
‘castes’—in the modern sense, of course—for the ancient
caste rules and prescriptions were transferred to them, as
we see from the constitution of the Sinhalese castes at the
time when British rule was established in Ceylon.

74. A peculiar term in medizeval Ceylon for artisans or
a sort of craftsmen is pessa or pessiya (pessika). The word

Google
CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 119

has ite history in the Pali literature. It means one who does
not work on his own account as the a; Iturists do but on
another person's service. In Suttanipata 615 (quoted by
R. Fick, p. 221) we read:

Yo hi koci manussesa parapessena jivati |
evam, Vasettha, janahi, pessiko so, na brahmano ||

Whoever among men ekes out a living through service
which he renders to others, know this, Vasettha, is a
Pessika and no Brahma

In SN.651 pessika is put together with kassaka agricul-
turist, sippika artist and vdpija merchant. As the craftemen
are no doubt included in the term sippika, the word pessika
must be rendered here by ‘servant’, ‘slave’ or the like, and
this is indeed its meaning in the canonical literature. Pessa
is frequently joined with dasa and kammakara, standing
between the two: dasa ti od pessa ti vd kammakara ti va
(D. I. 141° S176? &c.) and SI 93° after them in averse:
dasa kammakard pessa. In DCol 300" dasa is explained
by antojatadayo ‘those who are born in the house and the
others’, i.e. the four classes of slaves (see above 62), pessd
by ye pubbam dhanam gahetva kammam karonti, ‘who do
their work after having received money before’, and
kammakara by ye bhattavetanam gahetvd karonti, ‘who do
(the work) after having received food as wages’.

In the Jatakas VI 448'* pessiya means ‘attendant,
servant, soldier’, the fem. pessiya, ka VI 65", 67° ‘slave-
girl’, and para-pessiyd ‘rendering service to another’ is
II] 413° adjunct to dasi. The word pessa-kara VI 356'*
means ‘subordinate servant’.

We must start from the meaning ‘rendering service to
another’, if we wish to understand the peculiar use of the
word in the Cilavamsa. Here the Pessiya is never put
side by side with a slave or a serf, but he is simply a man
who ‘renders service to another’ by manufacturing articles
or by doing any other work for people who pay him
or his service. In short pessa, pessiya means craftsman,

Google
320 WILHELM GEIGER

and this meaning occurs already in Jat. VI 374° where
by pessakamma, ‘a craftsman’s work’, that of a potter, is
meant.

By the name pessa the craftsman is contrasted with the
agriculturist or the cattle-breeder who works for himeelf
and on wn account. From this contrast
a differentiation of rank within the series of castes. The
Pessiyas are the ‘servants’ of the village and therefore of
lower rank (hina) lower at all events than the villagers to
whom they render service.

Five (or ten) groups or castes of Pessiyas, pafica (or
dasa) pessiya-oagga, are mentioned in the chronicle, but
they are never named. According to Wijesimha, Maha-
vamea trsl., 1889, p. 94 and 144 n. the five castes are the
carpenters, weavers, dyers (or washermen), barbers and
workers in leather (or shoemakers). | accept this as correct,
for I suppose that W. has followed a tradition prevalent
in Ceylon. It is regrettable that he did not notice which
castes are meant by dasa pessiya-vagga.

Craftemen of the same profession were often living to-
gether in one village (R. Fick, p. 280 2q.). A village of
weavers is mentioned in Mhvs. 41.96, villages of potters
and masons in Mhvs. Tika, ed. Malalasekera, pp. 483%,
606". Such villages with the fields appertaining to them
are often assigned to the craftsmen as payment for the
service they had constantly to render to some community
of higher class. The payment could however also consist
in coin or in food, clothes and ornaments (cf. 27,22-23;
30.14, 18-19).

The Pessiya castes were also connected with the royal
court. The king with his family and his immediate entour-
age enjoyed the service of craftsmen who were skilful in an
extraordinary degree and did not work for other people.
When prince Parakkamabahu, after his return from Pula-
tthinagara arrived in Dakkhinadesa, his uncle Kittisirimegha
despatched representatives of those pajica pessiya-vagga
to meet him (67.58). As soon as the prince had entered

Google
CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 321

his own country, he was to be surrounded and attended to
by the retinue due to each member of the royal family.

When afterwards Parakkamabahu II (1236-71) reorganised
the kingdom, he also ‘settled’ or ‘rearranged’ (niyametva
thapesi) the five and the ten Pessiya castes who belonged to
the royal household (rdjakulayatte 84.5). We may assume
that in the preceding times of disturbance they had neglec-
ted their duties or not performed them in the prescribed
they had also served other persons for
the only passage of the chronicle where
the dasa pessiya-vaggd are mentioned.

The five Pessiya castes could also be granted by the
king to a monastery (57.21) just wes or serfs. In this
case the artisans who had formerly served the king were
now to do their work for the monks of the monastery, but
they received payment from the king.

75. We are not able to give, with the help of the Maha-
vamsa, a complete list of the craftsmen existing in medis-
val Ceylon and of their castes. They are mentioned here
and there in different connexions. In Mhvs. 88.105 sq.
many workmen are enumerated who were employed in the
reign of Parakkamabahu II. in the thirteenth century for
restoring the ruined buildings of Pulatthina; They
are (1) the workers in iron (ayakara), (2) the turners (cunda-
kara) and (3) the workers in bamboo (vilivakara). We do
not know how the ayakard differ from the kammard to be
mentioned presently. The word vilivakara is used in SCo I
93°° as explanation of venakula. The second group are
(4) the blacksmiths (kammara), (5) the coppersmiths (loha-
kara) and (6) the goldsmiths (sonnakara). They are also
mentioned in 68.25, in the rather strange notice that prince
Parakkamabahu for erecting a dam in a big irrigation-work
called together these three classes of smiths, because there
was a lack of stone-cutters (sild-kotfaka) in the

The third group are (7) the potters (kulala, the same as
kumbhakara) and (8) the painters (cittakaraka). Between the
two the kalada are mentioned, and it seems that we must

Google
122 . WILHELM GEIGER

assume a meaning for this word different from that of Sk.
kalada ‘goldsmith.’ The fourth and probably most import-
ant group is that of the masons (vaddhaki): (9) the workers
in cut-stone (sila-vaddhaki), (10) the brick-layers (itthika—
vaddhaki) and (11) the workers in stucco (cunna—vaddhaki).
To them (12) the carpenters, workers in timber (daru-
vaddhaki) are added. The bharika ‘porters’ and the
bhataka ‘hirelings’ were employed in the work together with
slaves and outcaste people.

Other craftemen, such as the weavers (pesa-karaka 41.96)
and the barbers (kappakd, nahapaka), are mentioned
occasionally. The barbers appear to have been more in
fighting trim than our barbers generally are, for with court-
officials, hunters and chamberlains they were among the
king's hunting-train (70.44) and prince Parakkamabahu
is said to have given arms to young barbers and chamber-
lains, so that they formed akind of bodyguard (69.26).
The hunters (ludda, luddaka) armed with spears and nets.
were employed as drivers in a king's hunting-party (70.35).
But wherever vyddha are mentioned in the chronicle, no
professional Sinhalese hunters are meant, but Vaddas, i. ¢.
tribesmen of the aboriginal race.

Not mentioned in the Cilavamsa are the washermen
and the fishermen. The former apparently played a role
in the familiar life of the Sinhalese; the latter are divided
in the older part of the chronicle into two classes ; those
who catch fish with bait (bdlisika 22.62) and those who
catch them with nets, (kevatta 28.37).

76. The most numerous and highly respected castes
were no doubt the agriculturists (kassaka) and the cattle-
breeders (gopaka). This is just the reason why they #0
seldom are expressly mentioned in the chronicle. All
the ‘inhabitants of the country’ (j@napada), if they were
not reckoned among the Pessiyas, were members of one of
these two castes.

The traders and merchants, (vanija) also seldom occur
in the Calavamsa. This can partly be ascribed to the fact

Google
CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 123

that even in medizeval Ceylon as now-a-days a good deal
of the commercial traffic was in the hands of Arab traders,
the ‘Moors’ (cf. above 72). They were called Yavanas or
Yonas. Itis certain that under this term all the Western
nations are comprised, not only the Greeks. If we are
told in Mhvs. 10.90 that: already at the time of Panduka-
bhaya a separate quarter ed in Anuradhapura, called
Yonasabhagavatthu, we can assume that this was a kind
of ghetto for those foreign traders. When Parakkama-
bahu I’s General Rakkha on the march to Rohana
approached the town of Valukagama, the modern Valigama,
he promised security to all who would make voluntary
surrender. The merchants (vanija) residing there surren-
dered willingly, because life and money were dear to them
(75.44 2q.). Perhaps these merchants were a colony of
foreigners. At the beginning of the modern era the
Portuguese (Parangi) and the Dutchmen (Olanda) were
also considered to be such traders (95.4-5 ; 99.108-9).

A prominent class within the society were the great
bankers (setthino). Their p n will probably have been
the same as that of the Setthins in the Jatakas. Cf. R. Fick,
op. cit., p. 258 sq. They stood, no doubt, in close proximity
to the royal court. Of three brothers who revolted against
king Vijayabahu I., 1059-1114, one was a seffhindtha a
chief of the Setthins (59.16). In 69.13 Setthinayaka is the
name of a Lambakanna ; it was probably his title.

The Setthins seem to have been connected with the
guilds (Sk, éreni, P. seni). Perhaps they were the foremost
guild. It is said in the Harivamsa éresthipdrodstu srenayah
‘the guilds have at their head the Sregthins’ (BR. s. v.).
Guilds are also mentioned in the Jatakas (cf. R. Fick, op.
cit., p. 275. sq.), but it is difficult to draw from the text
inferences concerning their constitution or organisation
and their relation to the cast In the older Mahavamsa
7.57 the number of the guilds is stated to be eighteen.
The same number is given in Jat. VI 427" and in Mahavastu
(ed. E. Senart) Ill, 1144*. In the Calavamsa guilds are never

Google
124 WILHELM GEIGER

mentioned, so that we cannot say with certainty that they
existed in medizeval Ceylon.

77. Great was the number of casteless wandering
traders or craftsmen and other people of this sort in Ceylon.
There is a highly interesting passage in Mhvs. 66. 130. sq.
where such people are enumerated who were employed by
prince Parakkamabahu as spies in the country of king
Gajabahu. The Chronicler was influenced, it is true, in
his description by the Kautaliya Arthaéastra (cf. W. Geiger,
Calavamsa trel. 1, 263, n. 1 &c.), but we may take it for
granted that all the types mentioned in that passage, were
well known in Ceylon as they also mostly exist there still
in modern times.

The spies were wandering in disguise, for instance, as
musicians, playing the mandoline and amusing the villagers
with dance and song. There were, it seems, often Dami
among the mt ans. Other artists were playing
leather dolls just as such popular performances can be seen
in Europe at rural festivals. A peculiar class of artists
were the snake-charmers (ahigunthika) often met with even
now by each traveller in India.

Itinerant traders used to sell cheap articles as rings
and bracelets or pottery for the household. Fortune-tellers,
skilled in telling of the lines of the hand, were wandering
from village to village, also people expert in mixing of
poisons, probably for love-charm, but sometimes also for
worse purposes, and Brahmanas who were performing the
family rites. Craftsmen as goldsmiths publicly practised
yn in villages and market-places in order to
attract the interest and the desire of the inhabitants by
their skilful work. Even surgeons visited the villages
jing their healing art, and wandering teachers who
instructed the boys in the art of writing.

Allthese people were in permanent contact with the
subjects of the king and had a good opportunity of knowing
and controlling their minds.

Mendicant artists (y@cak@ sippino) were often supported

Google
CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA jag

by the kings who dispensed a peculiar offering for them,
which was called dandissara. We cannot explain the name
of this offering, but we hear of it between the years 900
and 1100 A.C. (52.3; 53. 30; 60. 22). Since the word
sippa has a very comprehensive sense, denoting every
sort of art or craft or religious studies, nearly all the types
occurring in the list of spies sent out by Parakkamabahu,
will be included in the term ydacaka sippino: wandering
artisans and artists, even surgeons, teachers, fortune-tellers
and priestly helpers. They are all practising a sippa. But
it is common to them that they do not receive a regular
payment for their work, but must take it in each case from
the hands of the villagers according to their means and
willingness, like unto beggars (ydcaka) who eke out their
livelihood by collecting alms in the streets.

In the first chapters of the Cilavamsa (=Mhvs. 37. 51.
77) which deal with the history of the fifth to the ninth
centuries we meet with the triad kapan'-addhika-vanibbaka.
These people are supported by pious kings with abundant
alms (37. 76; 41. 66; 44.67; 51. 85). In this triad the
word kapana has the most general sense; all poor people
who are in distress of any kind, are meant by it. By
addhika, I think, the pilgrims are understood who are on
the road (P. addhan, Sk. adhvan) in order to visit a temple
or other sacred places. Among the spies of Parakkama-
bahu were also people in the garb of ascetics, wandering
like unto pious pilgrims from village to village and thereby
performing their devotion in front of the sacred shrines
(66.135-6). It is clear that the support of such pilgrims
is a meritorious work for a Buddhist.

Not so easy to explain is the word vanibbika (or
vanibbin, often also spelt with n). It seems to be cognate
with P. Sk. odnija (Geiger, Pali Gr. 46.1), Pk. va In
Buddhist Sk. the form vanipaka, occurring also as
vaniyaka in the Divyavadana (Stede, Pali Dict. ». v.). 1
therefore believe that vanibbaka is the same or nearly
the same as ydcaka sippin, and that it means a wandering

5

Google
126 WILHELM GEIGER

trader, a wayfarer or tramper. This is also confirmed by
the use of the word in the canonical Buddhist literature.
Here in Digha Nik. I, 137%, Il 354** the triad kapan’-
addhika-vanibbaka is preceded by samana-brahmana and
followed by ydcaka, denoting the professional beggar. It
is obvious that in the whole compound are comprehended
all the classes who should be supported by a pious
Buddhist, first of course by a pious king. The wayfarers
must be among them, they ought not to be omitted.

In Jat. IV 405" (cf. also 406") a Brahmana who has
grown blind is addressed with vanibbaka. Owing to his
blindness he is unable to perform regular activity in a
temple, but must earn his livelihood by wandering from
house to house as a mendicant priest. Another Brahmana
is called vanibbaka Jat. IV 459°* who makes money a:
ake-charmer (ahi-gunthika). He must be reckon
among the ‘wordly Brahmanas’ and this class of priests is
perhaps also understood in brahmand vanibbino Mbhvs.
73.32 (cf. above in 70), if this does not mean, what seems to
me more probable, mendicant priests.

By Wijesimha Vanibbaka in all the passages where it
occurs, is rendered as ‘mendicant’ or ‘beggar’ but in 41.66
(cf. 1.1, p- 14) as ‘mendicant minstrel’. Thi not wrong,
but too narrow. The translation ‘mendicant artist’ would
have been better.

78 Finally, a few remarks on the outcastes. The Canda-
las were in ancient Ceylon in the same position as in Ind
They had to perform the lowest and most polluting work, to
cleanse the streets and the sewers, to bear the dead and to
watch the cemetery. Near the capital Anuradhapura they
were residing in a separate village north-west of the place
where the dead were exposed or burnt (Mhvs. 10.91-3). It
was a shameful humiliation when at the end of the first
century A.C. King Ilanaga ordered the Lambakannas who
had revolted against him to make a road in Anuradhapura,
and had set Candalas to be their overseers (35-16-17). In
the medizeval part of the Mahavamsa Candalas are not

Google
CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA = 127

often mentioned. Spies in the disguise of Candalas were
wandering through Gajabahu’s kingdom (66.132), and
Candalas were employed together with slaves for subordi-
nate labour in public works (88.106).

In modern Ceylon the Candalas are replaced by the Rodi-
yas (cf. H. Nevill, The Taprobanian, June 1886, p. 81 sq. and
August 1887, p. 108 sq-). What we know about the Rodiyas
is highly interesting. They are spread over the whole
island, living in separate hamlets, and have to do the
same unclean work as formerly the Candal The inter-
course with them is strictly avoided by Sinhalese of the
better classes. They are beggars as well as thieves by
hereditary custom and speak a conventional secret language
comparable to the language of thieves in Germany. It
is a corrupt form of Sinhalese mixed with foreign words, the
origin of which is sometimes obscure. They have their
peculiar manners and customs often different from those of
the Sinhalese, but they are by no means a degenerate race.
They enjoy bodily strength, the women are often very hand-
some. As regards their origin and first appearance in
Ceylon we are confined to their own very fantastic tradi-
tions. It is however remarkable that in these traditions
their origin is connected with the personalities of Parakka-
mababu and one of his daughters. | am inclined to suppose
that they were people of a non-Sinhalese tribe who immi-
grated in Parakkamabahu's era, that is about the eleventh
century, into Ceylon. There these foreigners were always
regarded as people of the lowest and most detestable
class. But they mixed with the Candalas, absorbed them
gradually and became thus in their stead the class of out-~
castes in Ceylon. This is, however, but a suggestion which
may serve as a working hypothesis for future investi-
gation.

Google
Kataha
By K. A. NILAKANTA SASTRI, M.A.

In hie remarkable paper Le Royaume de (rivijaya, Prof.
Qoedés discussed the location of Kataha, identified it with
Kie-tch’a of I-tsing, and Kie-t'o and Ki-t'o of later Chinese
and suggested that most probably it lay in the
neighbourhood of modern Kedah. And he laid some stress
on a point already made by Prof. Blagden that Kedah
would be the first place on the Malay peninsula to be
touched by anyone sailing from Southern India to the East
across the Bay of Bengal.

Qcedés was not willing to accept at its face value the
gloss of a late annotator on the Paffinappalai which identi-
fied Kalagam with Kadaram, and suggested that it might
have arisen out of a misunderstanding. ‘‘In fact,’ he said’,
“Skt. Kataha and Tamil Kadaram both signify ‘frying pan,
cauldron of copper,’ but Kaddram has also the meaning
‘dark brown colour’; now, Kalagam has precisely the mean-
ing ‘black,’ and it is perhaps only this synonymy which
has induced the annotator of the Paftinappalai and the
lexicographers to gloss Kalagam by Kaddaram."* But the
employment of synonyms from one and the same or differ-
ent languages even in referring to proper names is an old
and well-established practice in India, and in the text of
the Pattinappalai, the word Kalagam stands for the name
of a place in constant trade relation with Paffinam or
Kaveripatnam,’ the celebrated port of the early Cola

1 Le Royaume, p. 20.

2 The line is: Tattunavam Kilagattakkamum, i.e. food-stufls
from Ceylon, and the produce of Kalagam. The mention of Kidi-
ravan as a variety of aloe-wood (agil) by the annotator of Silappadi-
kiram is well known.

Google
KATAHA nag

monarchs of the Sangam age. And the mention of Kalagam
which must mean Kadaram or nothing, in this early poem
of the second or third century A. D. is not without consider-
able significance to a study of the early history of the Hindu
colonies of the East.

In a very interesting paper entitled (rivijaya, Yava en
Kafaha,’ Ir. J. L. Moens has discussed, with great learning
and acumen, the location and history of Kataha, Ki (a)
dara and Kalagam, Ferrand’s objections to Qoedde’ view
are partly endorsed by Moens who considers, however,
that Ferrand pushes things too far when he concludes that
Kataha and Ki (a) daram should be taken to be two different
countries. Ferrand’s position must be stated in his own
words:* ‘Trusting in Epigraphy, M. Ccedés admitted
the equivalence of these four notations, which amounts

to saying that Kafaha>Ki,daram>Kalagam, or inversely,
whatever be the order in which we place these three forms.
If such an equation be accepted, phonetic laws will have
to be set aside, and we shall fall into arbitrarine
change in the consonant of the second syllable
nothing abnormal ; but that of the last syllable :ha>ram>
gam or ha>gam>ram is altogether impossible. It seems

tome thus necessary to separate Kafaha from Kidaram

and take them to be two different countries’. I am
afraid these difficulties were mostly of Ferrand’s making.
We are in the region, as Qoed’s rightly recognised, of
synonyms in different languages, and not of phonetic
changes. Kafaha is Sanskrit, and the three other words
are Tamil; of these, Kadaéram and Kidaram are v.
of the same word (cf. kada-
which has the same meaning as Kata while Kalagam
meaning ‘black’ is synonymous with Kadara, also Sanskrit,
meaning ‘twany’ or ‘dark brown’. The form Kalagam is

3° TBG., 1937, pp. 317-487.
4 14: 1919, Juil-Aout, pp. 185-6.

Google
130 K, A. NILAKANTA SASTRI

the earliest in Tamil literature. So that the Indian names
of this kingdom fall into two groups :

‘Skt. Kataha=Tam. Kadaram or Kidaram=cauldron

Skt. Kadara=Tam. KaJagam=black, or dark brown.

It is difficult to decide which of these is the earliest form
of the name, and all of them seem to be purely Indian
words, having little to do with any language native to Indo-
nesia. Mr. Moens, however, suggests’ that the philological
difficulties raised by Ferrand may be removed by assuming
that Kataha is the foreign Indian name of a place, while
Kadara or Kidara was the Tamil rendering of its indigenous
name. He seeks support for this position, | do not quite
see how, in the mention of ‘“‘akil Kiddravan"’ by the anno-
tator of the Silappadikaram and the story of the foolish
merchant, in the Kathdsaritségara, who, while trading in
Kataha, burns a cargo of aloe-wood into charcoal to be
able to sell it the more easily.

For the period of the Cola inscriptions and Song annals,
end of the ninth to the end of the twelfth century, Moens
allows’ the identity of the kingdom of Kadara with San-fo-
tsi, and locates it in the southern extremity of the Malay
peninsula, in the neighbourhood of modern Singapore.
But he has a general theory that geographical names were
not only systematically carried over from India to the
archipelago, but from one place to another even within the
archipelago. Accordingly, he sets out on a quest for the
original location of Kataha, and reaches the conclusion
that this must be found in the Kedu valley in Java.

I do not wish here to discuss the general theory of
Moens, but only examine the application of it to the parti-
cular instance of Kataha, and consider the soundness of the
arguments on which it is based. It seems to me that Mr.
Moens makes a false start when he begins his investigation
by assuming that at the time when the Kathdsaritsagara

5 P. 46.
6 P. 416.

Google
KATAHA 132

story of the foolish merchant was recorded, the aloe-wood
was unknown in Kafaha. But the whole point of the story
lies in his act being typical of the young merchant's stupi-
dity, and I do not think any inference of fact can be based
on this act, or even on the statement in the story that aloe-
wood was unknown in Kadaram. Yet Moens feels justified
in concluding from this that another kingdom must have
borne the name Kataha. He suggests further that, if in that
other kingdom also the Sailendras happened to rule as in
the later better-known Kafaha, then it can safely be assum-
ed that the new kingdom was in a certain sense a conti-
nuation of the old. This suggestion is useful as an index
to his method, that of applying hie hypothesis of the
removal of Kataha from one place to another to the facts of
Sailendra histor

Thus Moens is led to think of the early mention of the
Sailendras in Java and of their great Barabudur monument
in the Kedu plain. Accepting the position that Java was
the original home of the Sailendras, Moens argues that the
Barabudur monument, the Sailendra, where their Vaméa-
kara, the Buddha Sailendra, was symbolically entombed,
must have been completed before the consecration of Candi
Kalasan in 778 A.D. He says further:” ‘The Sailendras
erected their magic Olympus in Java at the foot of the
Menoreh-mountain, the southern end of the pronouncedly
basin-shaped valley, surrounded on the north by the moun-
tains of Prahu and Ungaran, in the west by the S8ndara
and Sumbing and in the east by Talamaya, Mérbabu and
Mérapi. Should it then be a surprise if this valley, which
was basin-shaped (keteldal), (in extent nearly coinciding
with the old province Kedu), got the Sanskrit name of
Kajaha, which name signifies, among other thinge, a basin
(Keteldal), and this the more where Kataha and the in-
digenous name Kedu are related both phonetically and
etymologically?”” It seems that the real argument of Moens

7 P48

Google
132 K. A. NILAKANTA SASTRI

in this passage lies at its very end, in the supposed
similarity of the names Kedu and Kataha. At any rate,
Tam not able to perceive any striking similarity between
the two names, and Moens’ description of the Kedu valley,
while it seems to suit his theory very well, does not seem
to be borne out by a study of any large scale map of Java
and its physical features. Moreover, Moens has argued
earlier, it will be recalled, that Kadara or Kidara was the
Tamil rendering of an indigenous name. It does not seem
to be easy to think that Kedu gave rise to either of these
Tamil names.

Moens seeks further support from the Kathasaritsdgara
for his position that the original location of Kataha is to
be sought in Java. His argument may be summarised
as follows: In the story of the two princesses,” Gunasigara’s
daughter, Gunavati, sent as the bride of Vikramaditya,
starts from Kataha to India. ‘But it eo happened that
when the ship came near Suvarnadvipa, it was swallowed
with the princess and the people on board by a large fish.”
Then the fish is killed by the people of Suvarpadvipa and
cut open; the ship full of people is released, and the
king of the island Candragekhara, the brother-in-law of
Gunasagara, hears of the occurrence, and after some time
sends his own daughter along with Gunavati to India,
so that both the princesses may become the queens of
Vikramaditya. Moens treats’ this miraculous narrative
as a shipwreck suffered by the bride on her way, and
concludes that Kataha must lie to the East or S.E. of
Suvarnadvipa, which, according to him, is the same as
Malaka.

In another story from the same work, a Brahman
Candrasvamin wanders in the islands across the sea in
search of his son. His itinerary is given in verses 56-64
of taraiga 56. The places mentioned in order are

8 Penzer and Tawney, IX, p. 50.
9 P. gaa

Google
KATAHA 133

(I) Narikeladvipa, (2) Katahadvipa, (3) Karpiradviy
(4) Suvarnadvipa, (5) Simhaladvipa and lastly (6) Citrakii
pura. After some discussion, the details of which I pass
over because the conclusion embodies them sufficiently
for our purposes, Mr. Moens”* reconstructs the itinerary of
the Brahman thus from India, across the ocean to West-
Java (Narikeladvipa); from there one after the other to
a (Katéha), Sumatra (Karpiradvipa) and M:
(Suvarnadvipa) and finally back to Ceylon. He a
reconstruction of the itinerary contains nothing that
is manifestly erroneous; its probability will be established
by the following’, and then he passes to a rical
demonstration.

Before proceeding to consider the historical argument,
I must say that in the reconstruction of thi inerary, Mr.
Moens assumes as settled the relative position of Kataha
to Suvarnadvipa as determined by him from the story of
Gunasagara. And his identification of Narikeladvipa with
‘West-Java has no firm ground to stand on. He refers to
Hiuan Tsang’s hear: count of the island, and att
that four mountains Mainaka, Vrgabha, Cakra, and Balahoka
are found there—a statement for which he cites no
authority, and I'am not able to find any. And these four
mountains then become many mountains at a later stage of
the argument,” and this fact along with the West-Javan king-
dom of Taruma being one of the oldest Hindu settlements
known, are the main grounds for the suggestion that West-
Java must be held to be the Narikeladvipa of the story.

Hiuan Tsang locates his Narikeladvipa some thousands
of li across the sea to the south of Simhala (Ceylon). Yule’*
inclined to identify them with the Nicobars, and Beal'*

10 P. 43.
a P. gar.

1a Pp. 422-3,

13, Marco Polo, ii, p. 307.

14 Buddbist Records, i, p. 252, 0. 3
6

Google
134 K. A. NILAKANTA SASTRI

with the Maldive islands. Watters lastly writes:* ‘‘We
do not seem to know anything about the cocoanut island.”
Accepting for a moment the suggestion of Yule and adhering
to prevailing ideas on Kataha and other places, it seems
easy to reconstruct the itinerary of the Kathasaritsagara
as follows: from India across the sea to Narikeladvipa
(Nicobars), thence to Kedah (Kataha), Karpiradvipa and
Suvarnadvipa i. e. two different parts of Sumatra, and back
to Simhala (Ceylon). But | will not press this far, as I do
not think any great reliance can be placed on these
legendary itineraries.

I may note in passing that after discussing the passages
in the Kathasaritsdgara relating to Kataha, Ferrand came
tothe conclusion: ‘The plest g then is to avow
cour ignorance: the Kataha of the Cola inscription and of
the Kathasaritsdgara do not answer to anything we know
for certait On the other hand, Vogel’’ treats the
references in the KathasaritsGgara more lightly, and is fully
satisfied that Kedah furnishes the most satisfactory identi-
fication for the Kataha of the Cola records. Ferrand, I
think, was more to the point when he observed’*:
“Possibly, however, we are dealing not with geographical
realities, but with imaginary toponyms common to folklore.
The character of Somadeva's work justifies this conjecture...
The characteristics of this imaginary camphor island are
borrowed from the different insular countries of Indonesia,
particularly Sumatra.”

We may now turn to the historical side of Moens’
argument. He points out that Hurlan-na-po of Po'li
mentioned in the Souei annals at the end of the sixth and
beginning of the seventh century is no other than a regular

15 On Yuan Chwang, ii, p. 237.
16 JA: 1919, Juil-Aout, p. 185.

17 BKI., 75, (1919), p. 633-
18 JA: ibid, n. 3.

19 P. 423.

Google
KATAHA 135

Chinese transcription of the Sanskrit name Gunarnava, a
regular synonym of Gunasagara, the king of Kataha
mentioned in the Kathasaritsagara. This may well be so;
Iam not competent to express an opinion on this matter.
Then he proceeds to suggest” that the Vikramaditya of
the story may be either of the two Vikramadityas of the
Calukya dynasty who ruled in the seventh and eighth
centuries A.D. There is no use arguing with such pathetic
faith in the identity of names and the historicity of fables.
Vogel” correctly described Somadeva’s Vikramaditya as
the legendary ruler of Ujjayini. And in the same chapter
in which the story of the princesses is narrated, we find a
woman miraculously released by Vikramaditya and his
famous Vetala being escorted back to her husband at
Ujjayini. There is nothing gained by confounding this
palpably legendary figure whose glory is attested by the
beasts of the forest and by Vetalas with his humbler
namesakes of history !

After this Mr. Moens carries on a long and intricate
discussion for several pages (424-61) in which some facts
are mixed up with many fancies. Very little of this has a
direct bearing on the question of the original location of
Kagaha in J: and I propose in the main to confine myself
as far as possible to this issue. The main conclusions for
which Mr. Moens contends in this part of his paper may,
I think, be summarised as follows:

(1) The Andhra-Kaliiga country on the east coast of
the Deccan was the homeland of many, if not all, of the
migrations which resulted in the establishment of Hindu
and Buddhist kingdoms in the Archipelago. The founders
of Taruma in West-Java, the dynasty of Milavarman of
Koeti, and the Sailendras were among such emigrants.
The Andhra-Kaliigadeéa was also the Kuijarakuijadeéa

20 P. 424.
a1 BK. ibid., p. 632.

Google
136 K. A. NILAKANTA SASTRI

of the Cangal inscription of A.D. 732, the original home of
the ancestors of Safijaya.

(2) The causes of these migrations are to be sought in
the unsettled political conditions in India, and the dynastic
rivalries of the home-land may be traced in the politics of
the colonial states also.

(3) There were two Katahas—one in Java, Kedu-Kataha
where the Sailendras ruled for about a century and a half
from the close of the seventh century A.D. when they
migrated to Java from Sumatra (Palembang) as a result of
the hostile attacks of Srivijaya; from Kedu they migrated
in the middle of the ninth century tothe other Kataha in
the extreme south of the Malay peninsula and directly on
the sea-route from India to China.

(4) The second Kataha was also called San-fo-tsi and
this was the Kadaram of the Tamil inscriptions. It lay on
the mainland of the Malay peninsula in the extreme south
on the estuary of the Johore river and on the bank of a
small tributary stream Kedaru.

(5) There were three San-fo-tsis at different periods viz.
(1) San-fo-tsi-Kadaram, (2) San-fo-tsi-Malayu and (3) San-fo-
tsi-Palembang, the two last being on the island of Sumatra.

Some of the points raised, like the proper interpretation
of the Arab accounts of Zabaj, have been omitted in this
summary as of no immediate concern here. | propose now
to offer a few observations on each of the five propositions
stated above, and then sum up the position relating to
Kataha in particular.

That the east coast of the Deccan took a prominent part
in colonisation of the eastern lands has long been recognised,
and for very good reasons. But the relied on by Mr.
Moens for fresh support to this generally accepted position
do not seem to be of any value. What, for instance, is the
value of the argument™ that the comparison of Sannaha to
Manu in verse 8 of the Cangal inscription is meant to be a

22 P. 434.

Google
KATAHA 37

veiled allusion to the Manavya gotra to which Sannaha
belonged, like the Kadambas and other dynasties of the
Deccan? Or again, what is the probative value of the sup-
posed similarity”* between the foot-prints of Parpavarman in
West-Java, and the idea underlying the phrase bappa-
bhattdraka-padabhaktah occurring in Salankdyana grants,
and, though Mr. Moens does not mention it, in those of
several other families as well’? How can we believe,
without any further evidence, that there was a definite
relation, yuggested by Moens”* between Kaundinya and
the Vignukundins, or that Sriéaila (Nagarjunakonda) and
Bukit Saguntang near Palembang and the Barabudur
represent a common idea?

But it is in his attempt to locate Kufijarakufijadeéa that
Mr. Moens goes clean off the track, and most of the other
errors into which he falls may perhaps be traced to this
initial mistake. He starts’ by declaring his intention to
remove from his path the common but mistaken view that
Saiijaya practised the same Agastya-cult as the princes of
inaya in E. Java. ‘This hypothesis’’, he says, “‘supported
and worked out in detail primarily by Bosch, rests in
fact on nothing more than on the loose suggestion thrown
out by Kern that by Kujijarakuiijadega might well be meant
the land of Kufijara, where ‘a mountain was created by
Siva, and the abode of the seer Agastya.’ This mountain
lies on the boundary of Travancore and Tinnevelly in the
old Pandya land. kanta Sastri bases on it even his
hypothesis that Safjaya might be a Pandya’. Ican only
say that almost every scholar,”” as Moent ware, who
has had occasion to consider this question has been greatly
impressed by the validity of Kern's surmise and the support

23 «*P. 445.

24 Fleet, Gupta Inscriptions, p. 186, n. 1.

25 Pp. 436-8.

26, P. 426.

27 One of the latest is Dr. Chhabra. See /GIS., iti, pp. 1707

Google
138 K. A NILAKANTA SASTRI

found for it by Bosch; and I do not yet see any reason to
retract my suggestion regarding the origin of the Sailendras.
Let us, however, follow the further stages of Moens’
argument.

He takes his stand on the absence of any direct
reference to Aj worship in jaya’s Cangal inscrip-
tions, and saye*: ‘If the land Kuijarakufija lay elsewhere
than in the locality postulated by Kern, then there would
remain nothing left of the role of Agastya as mediator
(between Divinity and Royalty) at Wukir.

Thus he sets out to discover another location for
Kufjarakufijadeéa. He starts with the statements:
“Kunjarakufijadeéa, which means ‘land of the elephant's
tooth’, in my opinion, only a pseudonym (‘schuilnaam’)
for the original homeland of Sannaha and Sajijaya, both
presumably also birudas for the true names of the princes.
The Sanskrit name for ‘ivory’ or ‘tooth’ is ‘danta’, and
Dantapura is the name of the famous old capital of the
Kalinga land of which we have spoken before, and where
Buddha's relic was worshipped with honours till it was
finally housed in Ceylon in 313 A.D. according to the
Siamese Buddhist Chronicles."’ And then he passes to an
account of Buddhism in the Godavari-Krishna delta
country, which we need not follow here. There is no
doubt that Kufjarakufijadeéa does mean ‘land of the
elephant’s tooth’, and in suggesting this meaning for the
phrase, Mr. Moens rejects, as he has a perfect right to do,
its usually accepted meaning viz., the elephant forest or
copse. But if Dantapura got its name from the original
enshrining of the tooth-relic of the Buddha in that city, it

28 He also states that with this hypothesis of the Agastya cult
of Saijaya is connected a misunderstanding of a Chinese text which
refers, not to a removal of the Javanese capital from Mataram to
Malang as is usually held, but to a change of centre from Kedah
to Baruas on the Malay peninsula. I do not wish to pursue this
side of the question here.

Google
KATAHA 139

is difficult to see how the elephant's tooth or ivory gets into
the description of the land. The connection between
Kujfijarakufija and Kuiijaradari of the Brhatsamhita seems
much more direct than that proposed by Moens between
Dantapura and Kufjarakufija.

Of the detailed correlations which Moens seeks to estab-
lish between political events in the Deccan and the develop-
ments in the colonies, it is only fair to state that he is
himself conscious of the lack of definite evidence in favour
of the hypotheses he offers, and says”: ‘Naturally, a
great part of what follows must for the present remain only
hypotheses, for in the oldest history of the South Indian
Continent there still remain many gaps especially in its
chronology". And the nature of the arguments on which
Moens relies for the hypotheses he puts forward has been
briefly indicated already. It is, moreover, not necessary
for the purpose of this paper to follow these historical
parallels between the history of South India and the
Archipelago at any length. That the east coast of South
India played a prominent part in the colonisation of the
East is generally acknowledged; geography suggests it,
and epigraphy, archeeology and literature furnish many
data in support of it. But Moens attempts to confine this
movement to the northern part of this coast, he lays
emphasis for instance on the -arnava endings in colonial
names to the almost total exclusion of -Varman endings,
and his claim to be able to trace the occasions and details
of this movement, have not carried conviction to me.
None of his hypotheses is impossible; but none rests on
any tangible evidence, And the total impression produced
by the whole string of them seems to be in essence a false
picture.

The third of the propositions relating to two Katahas is
also in the same boat. That the Sailendras ruled at first
in the neighbourhood of Palembang and were driven

29 P. 4aq

Google
140 K. A. NILAKANTA SASTRI

thence to Java at the end of the seventh century cannot yet
be proved. The earliest mention of the Sailendras occurs
indeed in Javanese inscriptions from Kedu, but the name
Kataha does not occur anywhere in them, and Moens has
not cited one single authority for assumption that the
district of Kedu had the name Kataha. Again, the theory
that they migrated from this Kat to another more direct-
ly on the sea-route from India to China in the south of
the Malay peninsula is just a hypothesis and nothing more.
Moens indeed promises to prove this when he say:
“From the following demonstration it will become clear
that neither did the Sailendras of Java dominate Sumatra
in the heyday of their Buddhism, nor Srivijaya the Sai-
lendras of Java, but that the lordship of the Sailendras of
Kataha over Srivijaya first became possible, after they had
abandoned Java which lay out of the way, for the empo-
rium which was located directly on the great maritime
trade route.” But am not able to find anything of the
nature of a convincing demonstration of this in the rest of
the article, but much that is based on the assumption put
forward in the sentence I have just cited. Again there is
much that is vague, uncertain and inconclusive in Moens’
view of Sailendra history. He admits that he cannot tell
how the -arnava dynasty of Java was displaced by the Sailen-
dras at the end of the seventh century. He says’ that
Sailendra power in Java lasted hardly a century and a half;
but we should observe that a century and a half is not such
a short period—the Mughal Empire in India did not last
longer, and the British Empire has not attained that age
yet. Then he says simply that something happened to put
an end to the direct power of the Sailendras in Java and
to place it under the rule of the successors of Safijaya. How
this happened, and why the Sailendras had to migrate to
the new Kataha-San-fo-tsi is left unexplained. Lastly the

jo P. 417, 0. 1.
ar P. 438

Google
KATAHA 14t

interpretations he proposes for the verses of the Nalanda
copper-plate,*? though they are offered as interpretations
according to Eastern canons, are more ingenious than any:
thing known in Eastern commentaries, and seem to me to
be altogether misguided. But as they have no direct bear-
ing on the location of Kataha, | must not enter into a
discussion of them here, but must reserve them for another
lly, Moens only reiterates his hypothesis when
he say: ‘In the light of the foregoing new standpoints
relating to the course of events, we must consider it practically
established that the Sailendras transferred the centre of
their power in the second half of the ninth century from
Java-Kataha to Malaka-Kajaha.’’ I am unable 80 to con-
sider it, and I am equally unable to see that this hypothes
is necessary to explain, as Moens seems to think it is,
Krom’s view that the Sailendra monuments of Java are not
those of a subject province, or Vogel's hypothesis of two
branches of Sailendras in this period, or the presence of
Malayan house-types on Sailendra monuments.

When we come to the fourth proposition on the location
of Kataha-San-fo-tsi, Moens’ argument seems to stand on
much better ground, though even here there are objections
of a serious nature in the way of an unreserved acceptance
of his conclusion. He says that he could not judge if
Ferrand’s phonetic objections’ to Qcedds’ identification
Kataha-Kedah are valid or not, but that he would show
that geographically they were two different places.** He
then points out that Qoedés’ general supposition, that men
often apply to a country the name of the first place they
come to while entering it, has no application to the case
of Kataha-Kedah, because the Cola expedition was one,
not of exploration of an unknown land, but of conquest
of a known country. Surely this is not unknown to

32 Pp. 440-2 33. -P. 446.
34 JA: 1919 Juil-Aout, pp. 181-2.
35 Pp. 446-7.

7

Google
142 K. A. NILAKANTA SASTRI

Qcedds, and his obvious meaning is that whenever the
name Kafaha came to be applied to the country, he does
not say it was first applied to it on the occasion of this
expedition, its origin might be explained in the manner
suggested by him. Moens then accepts the main results
of Goedés’ researches, viz., that the Chinese kingdom of
San-fo-tsi (of the Song annals) isthe same asthe double
kingdom of Kataha-Srivijaya of the Cola inscription, but
then he adds that Kataha was the sovereign state, and as
the Tamil inscription calls the kingdom only by the name
of Kadaram, we must accept without question the identity
of Kadaram with San-fo-tsi. He also points out that Zabaj
is not the same as San-fo- is usually thought, but is
the equivalent of Yava and cites analogies for the suffix -j
appearing in Arabic transliteration of geographical names.
All this is quite plausible though not conclusive.

But the arguments in favour of the location of Kadara-
San-fo-tsi at the extreme south of the Malaka peninsula
are not so satisfactory. The first of them is based on Abu
Zayd's statement regarding the capital of the kingdom of
the Maharaja that ‘ ces. Chit which, according to
Moens,** can only indicate a position on Malaka's east
coast which is turned towards China, or at least on Malaka's
southern point also turned towards China; it can in no
case be a place onthe West coast of Malaka. But this
argument, it will be noticed, does not meet the position
that Srivijaya was the capital of the United Kingdom of
Katahs jaya, and that Srivijaya lay in the neighbour-
hood of Palembang. The data of Abu Zayd on the capital
of the kingdom of the Maharaja will fit this situation equally
well.

Moens” then draws attention to the text of Chu-ku-fei
regarding San-fo-tsi as an important thoroughfare on the
route from India to China, and explains his sailing direction

36 Pp. 450-1.
37. P. 46.

Google
KATAHA 43

as ‘due north’ from there to China as due to the Chinese
misunderstanding of the true line of the Malaka peninsula,
and holds that this does not invalidate his location of San-
fo-tei in the extreme south of the peninsula. He also says
that Chau Ju-Kua’s statement that the products of Arabia
were brought to San-fo-tsi and thence transhipped to China
must also refer to the southern end of the peninsula, as it
would be very roundabout to take Sumatra on the way to
China ; and he applies the data of Chau Ju-Kua regarding
many people of San-fo-tsi bearing the surname Abu, and
the presence of books written in Arabic characters and so
on also to the same place.

But his chief argument rests on the Arabic data regard-
ingK.d. r. ng of about 850-950 A.D. He points out*
that the Arab writers mention on the route to China the
seas of Kalahbar, S: and Kadrang or Kadarang in
order. He argues strongly in favour of Kala being equated
with Kra. From Kra on the sea of Kalah-bar, to traverse
the whole of the sea of Salahat, it takes twenty days, and
the middle point of the journey is Betumah, which may be
identified with Butong island 6°. 30’ N.L. in the Langkawi
group, a little to the north of Penang ; while Kadarang is no
other than Kadaram of the Tamil inscriptions equally distant
from Butong to the S.E. as Kra is to the N.E., and the sea
near it takes its name from the place. Again, Chau Ju-Kua's
statement that a chain was stretched across the sea-route as
abarrier against pirates of other lands can apply only to
Kadaram at the southern extremity of the peninsula’*. Again
another Chinese writer says that in 961 A.D., San-fo-tsi was
also called Sien-lieou, a name obviously shortened from
Sien-lo-yue, i.e. Seluyat of Arabs, and Lo-yue of Kia Fan.
Lastly, Moens argues‘® that Lin-ya-mon which is reached
after a month's journey from China and where, according to

38 Pp. 4638.
39 P. 469.
40 Pp. 4701.

Google
144 K. A. NILAKANTA SASTRI

Chau Ju-Kua one-third of the merchants put in before enter-
ing San-fo-tsi, must be the eastern end of the Strait of
Singhapura. And this together with the names prevalent in
the locality like Kedaru and the presence of a hillock there
justify the location of the strongly guarded Kadaram in this
place.

If this were all that had to be said, the argument of
Moens may be taken to be very plausible, and the case for
it could certainly not be considered weaker than many
others that have been generally accepted. But there are
two observations to be made on the data on which Mr.
Moens has built his argument. First, there seems to be no
absolute clearness or consistency in the names employed
by the Arabic writers to the different parts of the sea in
the East. Masiidi speaks for instance in one place” of
the ‘numerous creeks formed by the sea of China on the
sides of Dj and of the empire of the Maharaja, king
of these isles’. One naturally begins to be sceptical about
logical demonstrations based on data selected from writings
of such a vague and contradictory character. Secondly, the
reading Betuma on which Moens depends for identifying
it with the Butong island seems to be antiquated and
wrong; I am not competent to judge of Arabic texts, but
as Moens is aware, Ferrand who compared and studied all
the geographical texts relating to the Far East thought
definitely that Reinaud's transcription Betoumah was a
mistake, and that the correct reading should be Tiyama,
and he also notes‘ that Ibn Al-Fakih’s text has the reading
Tuyiima for Tiyiima. But above all, there seem to be
serious difficulties in the way of Kadarang being taken to
be the same as Kadaram. The identification of this place
again has been specially studied by Ferrand, and Pelliot

4t Ferrand—Relations, p. 107.
42 Relations, p. 40, n. 2.
43 Ibid. p. 58, n. 6.

Google
KATAHA 45

““ Kia-Tan locates the mountain of Kiun-tu-
ince of two days from Panduranga, and says
that five days were needed to sail from there to the straits
of Malaka. Again the T'ang annals state that Che-li-fo-che
Palembang) is ata distance of 2000 li beyond
thie mountain. From these data Pelliot was inclined to
identify this place with island group of Puolo Condore off
of Cochin-China. That the
mountain was the most important feature of this place is
clear from the statement of Sulaymat ‘At Kundrang
is a high mountain to which sometimes slaves and robbers
fly for refuge.’ Likewise Ibn Al-Fakih: ‘We find (at
Kundrang) a high mountain (which dominates the others)."
This high mountain seems to be hardly represented by
anything near the location proposed for Kadaram by Moens,
or even, it must be admitted, in Puolo Condore or Cape St.
Jaques with which Ferrand is inclined to identify
Kundarang. It is possible that Moens does not think ¢
Kiun-tu-nong of Kia Tan and the T'ang annali nything
to do with K. D. R. Ng of the Arabic writers; if that be 20,
it is somewhat intriguing that, with the previous literature
on the subject before him, he did not expressly state this
view with his reasons for it.

The last of the propositions relating to three San-fo-tsis
at Kadaram, Malayu and Palembang, I need not discuss
here in any detail, as it has no direct bearing on the location
of Kataha which is the main theme of this paper. The
conclusions that seem to emerge from this rather long and
intricate discu seem to be: that no case has been
made for recogni the Kedu plain as the original Kataha
from which the Sailendras migrated to another place of the
tame name; and that the case for locating Kadaram in the
neighbourhood of modern Singapore on the mainland is

no better than that for placing it in the neighbourhood of

before hii

nong ata

44 See Ferrand—Relations, pp. 14-17.
45 Ibid., p. 4o.

Google
146 K. A. NILAKANTA SASTRI

Kedah. It may be added that the identification of San-fo-
tsi with Kadaram alone in the double kingdom of Kadaram-
Srivijaya, and the application exclusively to it of the data
of Chu-ku-fei and Chau Ju-kua also call for much stronger
justification than has been offered by Moens for them.

Google
Some indian parallels of Lokesvara types
In Indo-China

By Dr. U. N, GHosHaL

In his illuminating paper entitled Lokegvara en Indo-
Chine (Etudes Asiatiques, t. 1, pp. 227 ff), the late M. Finot
made a thorough study of the iconographic types of this
deity in Campa and Cambodia. The progress of research
since its publication makes it desirable to trace the Indian
affinities of these types somewhat further than could be
done in the paper just mentioned.

From Finot’s description it appears that the Indo-
Chinese images of Lokeévara may be iconographically
arranged under the following heads:

(I) LokeSvara with two arms

To this class belong (a) two stone images preserved
in the Tourane Museum (Finot, p. 234), They show
Lokeévara with two broken fore-arms resting upon two
supports, a figure in the chignon and a frontal eye; (b) a
small stone image in the Hanoi Museum. It represents
Lokeévara standing, with two arme, left broken, right
holding flask, Amitabha in coiffure (Ibid, p. 234); (c) the
bronze image in the temples at Binh-thuan representing
Lokeévara with two arms holding an ewer and a lotus
(Ibid, p. 235); (d) Lokeévara group on Nak Pan pediments,
the god standing between two personages with right hand
throwing water from his flask upon the hands of a worship-
perand left hand making a gesture (mudra) towards a
person bearing two jars of water (Ibid, p. 248). Similar
images of Lokeévara are found on the seven pediments of
Krol KO and also in the Ta Som temple and the small
shrine east of Ta Prohm (Ibid, pp. 249-250) ; and (e) ‘‘Pre-
khmer" Lokeévara from the province of Rach-gié (Ibid

Google
3148 U. N. GHOSHAL

p- 238). This has two arms, left closed with a lotus-bud
and right opening for showing lotus flower.

(2) Lokesoara with four arms

Under this category may be mentioned (a) a bronze
image from Quing-tri, now preserved in Hanoi Museum.
The four arms of the image hold lotus, flask, conch (2)
and rosary (Ibid, p. 234); (b) the bronze image in the two
temples at Binh-Thu&n (Ibid, p. 235); (c) terra cotta
medallions of Quang-binh (Ibid, p. 235). In these Lokeévara
is seated in maharaja-lila with four arms, the upper right
supporting the head; (d) a stone image recovered from
the ruins from Bayon by M. Parmentier (Ibid, p. 246, pl. V)-
Here Lokeévara stands upon lotus, Amitabha in chignon,
the four arms holding lotus, flask, book and rosary ; (e) two
seated figures at Nak Pan with four arms, one of which

holds a book (Ibid, p. 248).

(8) Lokesvara with eight arms

To this class belongs (a) the great image at Don Tei,
the right arm holding a book (all others broken), the left
holding rosary, cakra, vajra, lotus (?), sword, image of
Buddha, etc. (b) On certain votive caityas lying between
the Angkor Thom and Bant&y Chmir sites. Here the god
has eight arms of which six hold lotus, rosary, book (twice?)
arrow, artkusa, while the two lowermost arms are in
varamudra (Ibid, p. 254)

As for the first group it may be mentioned that the
lotus held in closed left hand and that the same flower
exhibited with open petals in the right hand are exactly
the attributes of the second variety of Rakta-Lokeévara
described in three Sadhanamala MSS. utilised by Dr.
Benoytosh Bhattacharya in his Buddhist Indian Iconogrphy-
The text of the dhyana of this deity as quoted by Dr.
Bhattacharya runs as follows (op. cit., p. 46) :—"‘Raktavar-
nnam Amitabhagarbhajatamukutadharam vamakaragrhi-
taraktapadmam tacca dakginakarena vikaéayantam... ”

Google
IGIS., 1938. Plate I.

PI. I. Sculptural fragment from Nak Pan, Cambodia. [Reproduced from
L. Finot’s article, Lokeguara en Indo-Chine, Etudes
Asiatiques, 1, Pl. 23, fig. 6, with the
kind permission” of the French
School of the Far East.]

[To face page 56.]

Driginal from

Google UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

Digit

Original from

Digitized by Google UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
SOME INDIAN PARALLELS OF LOKESVARA TYPES 149

Dr. Bhattacharya, after taking the above to mean that
the god should carry the red lotus in the left hand and open
ite pe with the right, admits (p. 47 n) that ‘vika@éayan-
tam’ in the above may also mean ‘exhibiting’, in which
case the god would have the lotus in both of his hands.
The pre-Khmér Lokeévara from the province of Rach-gia
mentioned under class | (e) shows that the latter is the
correct interpretation. In the work above-mentioned Dr.
Bhattacharya was unable to discover any actual representa-
tion of the Rakta-Lokegvara type. The Cambodian image,
however, offers such a specimen.

Of the group of four-armed images, the one from Bayon
with the lotus, rot flask and book may be compared
with that of Milavasa-Lokanatha of Dakginapatha which
is twice illustrated in Foucher’s Catalogue Nos. 25 and 27
(App. I, Etude sur I’ Iconographie Bouddhique de I’ Inde).
The description of this figure by Foucher is as follows—
(Ibid, p. 194) : No. 25. “‘Dakgini
na. Bodh. blanc, debout, 4 quatre
m. d. en geste qui
tenant le lotus et le flacon: 2° supérieurs: m. d. tenant
le rosaire. m. g. le livre...”. No. 27: Dakginapathe
Milavasa-Lokanathah: Identique & la min. | 25. sauf le rosaire
dela m. supérieure d. oublié. Slightly different from the
above is the figure (Foucher, op. cit. No. 36) labelled
Dandabhuktau Yajiiapindi-Lokanathah, whose description
(Ibid, p. 196) is as follows: Bodh. blanc, & quatre bras: 1°
inférieurs:_ m.d.en charité, m. g. tenant le flacon (2),
2° supérieurs: m d. tenant le rosaire, m. g. le lotus rose..."".
Probably the Indo-Chinese steles with lotys, rosary, book
and indistinct object belong to the same class. Among
the 108 forms of Avalokiteévara represented in the
Macchandar Vihal of Kathmandu, there is none which is
exactly similar to the above. But we have one form (No.
12) which approaches the same. This is known as Jatamukuta
Lokeévara. In this form the god has one head with the
effigy of Amitabha appearing above ; he has four arms, the

Google
150 U. N. GHOSHAL

upper right holding rosary, the lower right in varamudra,
the upper left a lotus stalk, and the lower left a water-pot.
(B. Bhattacharya, Buddhist Indian Iconography, p. 178 and
pl. XLV).

The Indo-Chinese type of four-armed images with rosary,
book, vara and bhimisparfa mudra has no match in any
Indian example. But the Eastern Indian School knows a
type with the attributes rosary, book, vara and lotus type (see
R. D. Banerji, Eastern Indian School of mediaeval sculpture,
p. 88 and the references there given). The same type is
represented in Foucher’s Catalogue 1,23 under the caption
Suvarnpapure Srivijayapure Lokanathah drigasthana. This
is described as follows (op. cit., p. 193):—Bodh. blanc,
debout, & quatre bras: 1° inférieurs: m. d.en charité,
m.g. repliée tenant le lotus; 2° supériew m. d. tenant
le rosaire, m. g, le livre; & sa d. autre lotus...”

A slightly different type is known to the Eastern School
with the attributes rosary, vara, kamandalu and lotus (See
Kramriech, Pala and Sena Sculptures, pl. XLVIII).

Of the Indo-Chinese type of Lokeévara with eight arms,
it has not been found possible to observe an Indian parallel.

Google
—

MISCELLANY

The Rastrapalanataka of Asvaghosa
By Dr. E. H. JOHNSTON

An interesting note by Pandit Vidhushekhara Bhatta-
charya in Journal, V, pp. 50f., draws attention to the
mention in the Vadanyaya (JBORS, xxi, Pt. IV, p. 67, not
p. 63) of a play with this title by Aévaghoga, but the signi-
ficance of the reference can only be understood by reading
with it the late Professor S. Lévi's account of the play
from the Chinese in Journal Asiatique, 213 (1928), pp.199-
204. He quoted an extract from the Fu fa tsang yin yiian
ch’dan (Taisho Issaikyo edn., L, 2058), which was translated
into Chinese about 472A.D. It relates how Aévaghoga
composed a piece of music called ‘Rasfrapala,’ in the
words to which he treated of duhkha, sinya, nairdtmya.
In it he said’, ‘Everything samskrta is as an illusion ora
phantasmagoria. The three spheres of existence [i.e.
dhdtus] are a prison in which one is bound, and it is im-
possible to be happy there. The situation of a king
appears lofty; he is powerful and free to do as he likes.
But kingship is impermanent ; who can retain it, when the
fatal day arrives? It is like a cloud in the sky, scattered
and destroyed in a moment. The body is empty and pith-
less like a banana-tree; it is an enemy, a robber, and
cannot become an intimate friend. It is like a cage [? a
pot] full of poisonous snakes; who can love it or take
delight in it ? This is the reason why the Buddhas have
ever impeached the body.” This music proved beyond
the capacity of those to whom it was given for execution.
Thereon Aévaghoga donned white robes and assumed the

1 I translate Lévi's version.

Google
152 E. H. JOHNSTON:

leadership of the orchestra, on which the performance
became perfect. In the sequel five hundred Kgatriyas were
so affected by it that they entered the Order, and the king
of Pataliputra, fearful that their exemple would be generally
followed and his kingdom depopulated, forbade the play
ever to be acted again. Professor Lévi then went on to
point out that a similar story is told ina
Pindaniryukti, verses 474-480, as elaborated by the com-
mentator, Malayagiri, where the play has the same name,
but the author is called Agadhabhiti.

In dealing with Agvaghoga’s works in the introduction
to my translation of the Buddhacarita, | did not discuss
the question whether he had ever written such a play,
because no text of the play was extant for consideration
and there was no proof then that the story in the Chinese
work was more than one of the many legends that have
clustered round the name of the Buddhist poet. It seemed
to me significant for instance that his poems show no spe-
cial interest in, or knowledge of, musi I should perhaps
have given more attention to the description of the verses,
which read almost like extracts from the Buddhacarita or
the Saundarananda; Aévaghoga, as | have pointed out else-
where, tends to repeat the same ideas and arguments in
his works. Thus, compare with the extract given above
such phrases as Saundarananda, v, 45, parigamya lokam
mayopamam citram=ivendrajalam, Buddhacarita, xi, 45f-,
ge about the insecurity and lack of happiness i
kingship which begin: |@ nrpatoe‘bhyadhiketi, ib., xx
15 (Acta Or., xv, p. 114 of reprint), ‘like snakes which
have been confined in ajar’; this list could easily be
extended.

These coincidences suggest that the author of the
original, from which the Chinese translation was made,
may have known a genuine drama about Ragtrapala by
Aévaghoga, and in this connection some curious features
of the Vadanydya passage should be observed. It ends
Kidrsam Rastrapalam nama na{akam iti prasahgam krtod

Google
THE RASTRAPALANATAKA OF ASVAGHOSA 153

nandyante tatah praviéati sitradhara iti pathen-nrtyed-gayec~
ca/prativadi tam ca sarvaprasafgam nanukartum samartha-
iti pardjitah syat. Evidently this implies that the vadin
repeats the whole play with appropriate action, and for
such a purpose would a play have been chosen for illus-
tration which did not actually exist ? Further the reference
to singing, which would not necessarily be required for
reciting the text of many plays, is suggestive in view of the
account of the performance given in the Chinese translation.
Finally, it appears from Buddhacarita, xxi, 26 (Acta Or.,
xv, p. 56 of reprint), that the poet held the story of Ragtra-
pala‘s conversion to be one of the outstanding incidents
of the Buddha’s mission. There is thus much to be said
for the view that Aévaghoga did write a play about Ragtra-
pala, which is no longer extant.

A further point of interest for the history of the drama
is the fact that, as in the MSS. of the plays discovered of
recent years in the Madras Presidency, the passage of the
Vadanyaya makes the play begin with the stage direction
nandyante, etc.

Google
Epigraphic Notes
By Dr. Dines CHANDRA SiRCAR

I. Phnom Préh Vihar Inscription of the time of Bhava-

varman(’)

This record in Sanskrit verse describes the activities of a
Paéupatacarya named Vidyapugpa who is called Kavi and
Sabda-vaisegika-nyaya-tattoartha-krta-nigcaya. Verses 6 and
7 of the record say about the Saiva saint:

tatas=aa_nigkraman=nana-
firth-Gyana-parvvatan ;
Kathafi=cid=Gnita iha
svapn-ante sri-trigdlind.
Yatha pradarsitam svapne
dretavan=iha Sahkaram;
lingam padam gospadafi=ca
bhasma tuAgisaparvvate.

The seventh verse has been thus translated by Coedés:
“IL vit (ensuite) ici, tels qu'il les avait vus en songe, le linga
de Sankara, le pied, la flaque d'eau et Ia cendre sur le
(mont) Tungiéaparvvata”’ (). In a footnote on the word
pied in the translation, he further suggests, “pada, ‘empre-
inte du pied’, ou peut-étre ‘séjour, demeure’ (de Siva?)””

The verse appears to mean that the place, previously
shown to Vidyépuspa by Siva in a dream was recognised by
him by the presence of a Sivalinga and some signs indicating
the lord’s presence, such as pada (i.e. Siva's pada-cihna),
gospada (i.e. padacihna of the lord’s carrier Nandin, gener-
ally called Nandipada) and bhasma (ashes which the lord
rubs on his body).””

1 Inscriptions du Cambodge, éditées et traduites par G. Condes,
Hanoi, 1937, tome. I, p. 4.
2 Ibid, p. 5.

Google
EPIGRAPHIC NOTES 155,

I. Tar Kran Inscription of Jayavarman I (*)
Verse 4 of this partially mutilated record in Sanskrit
verse describes King Jayavarman as:

adharmmika-jana-dhvantam
dita-vivasvata;

‘ipura-nrpa *
e 8

It is however difficult to be definite on this point as the
fourth foot of the verse is almost totally lost and as the rela-
tion of K4ficipura or ai ra with the context cannot be
determined. But Coedés’s reading of the sixth syllable of
the third foot as nr, is admittedly doubtful. We think that
the metre requires here not a laghu syllable like nr,—but
a guruone. The facsimile appears to suggest the reading
bha’, and the word may be bhipalam.

The next two verses of the record introduce to us a
learned Brahmana named Dharmasvamin and read:

atr=asid=v (b) rahmano vidvan

veda-ved4[fga]-paragah ;

dharmmasvam=iti v[i] khydtas=

[a] kg[a]d=dharmma [iv=dparah*].(‘)

agr-dsano narendranam

Srilr=*] ya(a) syalpya*) Agato bahih;

antahkarana-saudhe tu

vinyasta yena bharafi.
Coedés doubtfully reads the second foot of the last verse as
Sri yapya® ggto bahih or as Sriyasya® angato (or argino),
and corrects the word agr-dsano as agr-dsane which how-
ever appears to be unnecessary. His translation of the verse
is : “Ila (chassé?), hors de ......, la Fortune des (autres) rois
(placés) sur un tréne eminent, mais il a installé IEloquence
dans la palais de son goeur."” The verse, however, seems to

3 Ibid, p. 8 &
4 The restoration of the lost syllables here as év=aperah seems to
me beyond doubt,

Google
156 DINES CHANDRA SIRCAR

mean that Dharmmasvamin who enjoyed an eminent seat
in all company, had rajasri in his appearance, though in his
heart dwelt Sarasvati, Sri's rival.
III, Phnom Baydh Inscription of Bhavavarman II (*)
This mutilated record in Sanskrit verse appears to belong
to the middle of the seventh century A.D. Verse 23 of the

record reads:

soma-vansya-prasii[ta] nam

* * lopam=akurvvata;

Sri-kongavarmma * © ddh

. 8 © ©
Qcedés points out that the peculiar name Kofgavarman is
not found in the inscriptions of Cambodge. It is interesting
to note that similar names are found in the south-western
part of Peninsular India in inscriptions of about the same
period. There was a province called Kongudeéa in this
part of the country, and the name Kongani, Konkani or
Kofguni was quite a favourite with the Ganga royal family
of Mysore. The seventh century Ganga King Durvinita had
the name Konganivrddha, while his father’s name was
Avinita-Kongani. A prince named Kongavarman is found
in the genealogy of the Kadambas of Bi
Kanara District. He was the son of Ma:
founded the Kadamba family about the middle of the fourth
century A.D. Does the name of Kongavarmman of the
Phnom Bayan inscription connect him in any way with the
south-western part of Peninsular India?

5 Ibid., p. aga

Google
OBITUARY

MR. N. G. MAJUMDAR
The Managing Committee of the Greater India Society

records with deep sorrow the untimely death under most
tragic circumstances of Mr. N. G. Majumdar, a most valued
member of the Committee and one of the most brilliant
Products of the modern school of archaeology in India.
He was engaged, as Special Officer for Exploration of the
Archaeological Survey of India, in a survey of the pre-
historic sites of the Indus civilisation when he was mur-
dered on the IIth November, 1938 by a gang of armed
robbers near Johi in the Dadu district of Sind.

After completing his studies at the Calcutta University
with high honours, Majumdar joined the staff of the Post-
Graduate department of the University in the branch of
Ancient Indian History and Culture. He had already by
this time made his mark as a keen student of Indian archaeo-
logy by the publication of his articles in the Indian Anti-
quary and the Epigraphia Indica and specially of his im-
portant List of Kharogthi inscriptions in the Journal of the
Asiatic Society of Bengal. Appointed Curator of the
Varendra Research Society's Museum at Rajshahi, he dis-
tinguished his term of office by producing an important
work called the Inscriptions of Bengal, Ill. His remarkable
talents singled him out for appointment in the Archaeolo-
gical Survey of India which he joined in 1927, after receiv-
ing his preliminary training on the Mohenjo Daro site under
the watchful eyes of Sir John Marshall. His further explo-
rations of pre-historic sites in the Sind area bore fruit in his
highly important work, Explorations in Sind, which was
published as a Memoir of the Archaeological Survey of
India. Promoted to the post of Superintendent of the
Archaeological Section of the Indian Museum in Calcutta,
he published two valuable Guides to the collection under

9

Google
158 OBITUARY

his charge, and he carried out a number of very fruitful
excavations on various sites, such as Lauriya Nandangarh,
Kosam, Durgapur and Mahasthangarh. He also edited a
large number of Brahmi and Kharosthi inscriptions which
have thrown a flood of light on a number of complicated
problems of Indian history. Among other works from his
leamed and busy pen may be mentioned a valuable chapter
on the Copper coins in the Stipa Area in Marshall's
Mohenjo-Daro and the Indus Civilisation, and a chapter on
the Sanchi inscriptions for the forthcoming publication of
the Archaeological Department entitled the Monuments of
Sanchi.

Majumdar's high merits as a acholar won him his deserv-
ed recognition from many quarters. He was elected a
Fellow of the Royal Asiatic Society of Bengal in 1933 and
President of the History section of the Bengali Literary
Conference at Patna in 1937. His charming manners won
him the love and esteem of all those who had the privilege
of coming into his contact.*

* Based on a paper written by Mr, T. N. Ramachandran, M.A.,
Superintendent of the Archacological Section at the Indian Museum,

for the Royal Asiatic Society of Bengal.

Google
NOTICES OF BOOKS

Aanwinsten op ethnografisch en anthropologisoh gebied
van de afdeeling Volkenkunde van het Koloniaal Instituut
over 1937, Koninklijk Koloniaal Instituut te Amsterdam,
Med. No. XLIV, Afd. Volk. No. II.

This description of acquisitions to the Royal Colonial
Institute at Amsterdam for 1937 is from the pen of Messrs.
J. Kunst and F. W. Stammeshaus, Conservator and Adjunct-
conservator respectively in the section of ethnology at
the Colonial Institute. The acquisitions are described
according to serial number which runs from 1087-1174. No.
1088 consists of a collection of ethnographica from South-
New-Guinea, whereof a ceremonial proa, employed in
totemnistic religious festivities, is very interesting. Of great
interest are the forty-four neolithic arrowheads and twenty-
four paleolithic implements from Pacitan, Ea va, des-
cribed under no. 1098, 1-68. In the same connexion are
also described twenty paleeolithic implements found in
the vicinity of Solo in the same geological stratum as that
wherein Dubois discovered the skull of Pithecanthropos
erectus. These paleeolithic objects, however, according to
the authors, originated with a contemporary but more pro-
gressive race. The gifts of Messrs. R. A. H. Arntz and
J. H. Mulder are described under no. 1100, whereof 30 a/e
consists of five (old?) Balinese lontar MSS., derived from
Bali, giving informations about some officers. The MSS.
may be important from the historical point of view and
should be examined. Under no. 1103, the authors describe
acollection of paintings, eketches, plastic and ethnographi-
ca from Bali, whereof the death of Abhimanyu (Canto xiv
from the Bratajuda), drawn by Ida Bagoes Gilgil may be
singled out for special mention. Mr. F. Lieftinck J. Hzn.
presented to the Institute a kidung on lontar, called Tutur

Google
160 NOTICES OF BOOKS

Mpu Devaraja Bréma, in wl the said teacher gave all
sorts of instructions to his disciple Balanatha. The MS.
is described under no.1141 and was derived from Bali. But
perhaps the most important acquisitions to the Institute
are the coins from the Indian Archipelago and South-East
and East Asia which are described under nos. 1144, 1-87,
88-733. Various Asiatic and European coins are also men-
tioned in that connexion (nos. 734-896). The coins of the
Indian Archipelago belong to various periods : six are silver
Hindu-Javanese ma-coins, twenty-three bronze Hindu-Java-
nese (so-called) temple coins (presumably used as votive-
coins), six very rare tin doite, etc. The Chinese ‘coins’
range from 1760 B. C. and represent all Chinese periods.

The Report contains an index of indigenous words.
To the scholars interested in the subject the Register of
origin and grouping of the objects will be extremely help-
ful and this practice should be followed in the Indian
Archeological Reports.

H. B, Sarkar

Enkele metingen en Volume-bepalingen aan Neder-
landsohe en Papoesche schedels, Koninklijk Koloniaal
Instituut te Amsterdam, Med., no. XLVI, Afd. Volk. No.
12, by Prof. Dr. J. P, Kierwec DE ZwaaNnen Dr. A. J. van
Bork-FELTKAMP, Amsterdam 1938,

The present monograph, written by two well-known
ethnologists, contains the result of accurate studies on the
measurement and capacity of Dutch and Papuan skulls.
The materials utilised by the joint-authors comprise 119
Dutch skulls, whereof 69 are male and 50 female, and 129
Papuan skulls, besides 474 upper jaws of Dutch persons of
unknown sex. Of these skulle, the greatest length and
breadth have been measured, the cranial and orbital capa-
city have been determined and various skull-indices cal-
culated. A number of measurements on the upper jaws
were taken according to the method of Martin; in the

Google
NOTICES OF BOOKS 161

determination of the capacity of the Dutch skulls and that
of the Papuan crania, the authors have followed the
method, and used the apparatus, of Th. Mollison in his
Hohlraummessung und Volumbestimmung, Anthropologis-
cher Anzeiger, VIII, 1932. The authors have tried to
establish a number of points, in which the comparative
estimate of Dutch male and female skulls and Dutch and
Papuan skulls appears to be interesting. It has been
found, for example, that the greatest length and breadth
of Dutch skulls are usually noticed among the males,
that among the Dutch skulls the percentage of mesocephalic
skulls is extraordinarily great but the brachycephalic
ones bear the largest cranial capacity. The Papuan
skulls are, on the other hand, smaller and narrower
than the Dutch skulls. The percentages work out as
follows : of the Dutch skulls, 36°13% are brachycephalic,
48°74% are mesocephalic and 15°13% dolichocephalic;
of the Papuan skulls, 4°65% are ‘brachycephalic, 16°3%
are mesocephalic and 79°1% are dolichocephalic. The
dimensions of the upper jaw were, on the other hand,
generally larger in the Papuan skulls than in the Dutch
skulls. Some of the conclusions drawn by the authors
differ from those of Prof. Bolk, who noted, for example,
that the greatest skull-capacity is found in the cranial in-
dices which are most frequent. This view is not borne out
by the scrutiny of our authors, whose method of measure-
ment of skull-capacity differs from that of Prof. Bolk.

The work has entailed considerable labour on the part of
the authors and has been written with extreme care. The
diagrams have greatly enhanced the value of the book.

H. B. SARKAR

The tract under review is a supplement to the text-edi-
tion of the Old-Javanese Bhigmaparva by Dr. Gonda, The

Google
1h NOTICES OF BOOKS

critical edition of the Sanskrit Bhigma’ is still a great desi-
deratum, and Dr. G.'s work, though it has admirably handled
the existing printed materials, has not been able to make
use of a critical edition of the Sanskrit Mahabharata which
alone can determine the source from which the Old-Javanese
redactor drew his materials. The Southern recension of the
Sanskrit Bhigma” by P.P.S. Sastri appeared rather late : Dr.
Gonda did not therefore find it possible to make an exhaus-
tive use of the materials for comparison contained in the
Old-Javanese and Southern versions of the Sanskrit text.
The work of Dr. G., however, will certainly lessen the
labours of the Poona redactors, so far as the sixth book of
the Mahabharata is concerned. The plan of this work is this,
that he has given, on the one hand, a summary of the Old-
Javanese text, and on the other, a critical apparatus of
Sanskrit and Old-Javanese texts, comparing the materials
contained in Javanese and various Sanskrit versions of the
sixth book. The author admits however (p. 39 n. and else-
where) that the text-comparisons, given in the book, bear a
provisional character and that in furture critical comparison,
these text-comparisons would be superseded by the readings
of the Mahabharata recensions. When a critical edition
of the Skt. Bhigma® appears, the time would be very
opportune to undertake an investigation on the lines
of Wulff in his Den oldjavanske Wirdtaparwa og dens
Sanskrit-original (1916) and Hazeu in his Het Oudjavansche
Adiparwa en zijn Sanacrit original (1901).

Comparison of the text commences from p. 4 ff. of the
tract under review. Dr. G. first discusses p. 65, IV, adhy.
43-44; 1533-1669, and his treatment is very thorough. In
concluding his studies on this portion of the text, he remarks
(Ibid, p.6) that in this chapter, in spite of general agreement,
there are great many differences in detail. This summing-
up of the results of study on particular chapters, though very
much desirable, is not generally to be met with in other por-
tions of the book. On p. 31 ff. the author draws our atten-
tion to a very significant phenomenon, viz., the death of

Google
NOTICES OF BOOKS 163

Bhigma and the burning of his mortal remains, which are
not mentioned in Old-Javanese text. Dr. G. thinks it possible
however that after his downfall, Bhigma lived for some time
more and inculcated, as the Old-Javanese Bhigma’” puts it,
the judicious exercise of kingship. This brief passage brings
him to the problems of the 12th and 13th books of the
Mahabharata as parts of the Corpus Mahabharata; and his
reasonings are sound and very interesting. We hope he will
further work up this point. Chap. II of this book deals with
the cosmographic episode in the Old-Javanese Bhigma’,
which he deems to be ‘‘of great importance for the history
of the Indian epic.” The episode belongs to those parts of
which a thorough comparison with the parallel texts is
possible. For the dicussion of this topic, he gathers a wealth
of materials from the Mahabharata and the Puranas, and
modifies, elaborates and supplements the studies of Dr.
Hilgenberg in this field.

H. B. Sarkar

W. L. Steinhart, Niassohe Teksten, Verhandelingen van
het Koninklijk Bataviaasch Genootschap van Kunsten en
Wetenschappen, deel LXXIII, Bandoeng, 1937.

Mr. Steinhart, a Protestant missionary of the Lutheran
Society, has edited with Dutch translation and notes the
Nias-texts under review, of which the first two cantos were
published in TBG., LXXIV (1934), p. 326 ff. and 391 #. He
has also thankfully recognised the assistance he has receiv-
ed from Dr. Esser, whose valuable notes he has utilised here
and there. The author’s own notes have also been very
carefully written, and the students who wish to learn the
language will find the book an excellent guide; they will
appreciate the rhythm of the original verses, partly reflected
in the Dutch rendering of the texts. The work will prove
interesting to all lovers of ethnology and folklore, as it
throws considerable light on the manners and customs of
the Nias-population.

H. B. Sarkar

Google
164 NOTICES OF BOOKS

F. H. Gravely and T..N. Ramachandran, Three Main
Styles of Indian Temple Arohitecture (Bulletin of the
Madras Government Museum, New Series—General Section,
Vol. Ill, Pt. 1). Published by the Superintendent, Govern-
ment Press, Madras, 1-26 pp., Pls. 1-2.

F. H. Gravely, An Outline of Indian Temple Archirec-
ture (Bulletin of the Madras Government. Museum Pt. Il).
Published, October, 1936, 1-22 pp. and Pl. |.

These are two useful Bulletins of the Madras Museum,
published some time ago. The first is a dissertation on
the three main styles of Indian temple architecture recog-
nised by the Silpasastras, while the second one deals with
an outline of Indian temple architecture, thus being some
sort of a complement to the first.

The Bulletin first mentioned corrects some misconcep-
tions already prevailing about the characteristic features
of the three principal styles of temple architecture, viz.,
Nagara, Vesara and Dravida. Fergusson, in his monu-
mental work on Indian and Eastern Architecture, distin-
guished between three chief temple-types designated by
him as Indo-Aryan or Aryavarta, Calukyan and Dravi
these divisions were more or less based by him on
particular modes of such structures to be found in different
well-marked localities like Aryavarta, the Western Deccan
and the Eastern and Southern Deccan. He does not seem
to have used the technical names laid down in the Silpa-
4astras, such as the work of Sri Kumara, Suprabhedagama,
and the Manasara, which terms according to scholars would
fit in with his own divisions; thus, his Indo-Aryan or
Aryavarta, Calukyan and Dravidian would correspond to
Nagara, Vesara and Dravida respectively. Fergusson’s
criterion for distinguishing between these types was
defective inasmuch as he laid too great a stress on the ethnic
element. Havell, in his study of the ancient and mediaeval
architecture of India, criticised the classification of Fer-
gusson and pointed out that a slight difference in the
ground-plans of the shrines would constitute different

Google
NOTICES OF BOOKS 165

temple-types. He also remarked, on the authority of Ram
Raz, that according to the Mdanasara, the technical name
of a square shrine was Nagara, that of an octagonal one,
Dravida, and that of a circular one, Vesara. He, however,
was of opinion that the ‘entire planning and every other
structural and symbolic detail’ of the pyramidal monaster-
ies were based on Indo-Aryan ideas imported from the
north. Coomaraswamy discussed the point at some length
in his History of Indian and Indonesian Art and proved
the unity of Indian temple (vimana), though there were
‘provincial variations in its formal development, existing
side by side with the secular variation in pure style’. He
criticised Fergusson’s sectarian classification as of an entirely
misleading character and pointed out that ‘Manasdra’s
clear distinction of Vignu and Siva temples followed by
Havell and Diez can not be recognised in mediseval
practice’. He proved, however, that both the Nagara and
Dravida styles designated towers ‘rising above the garbha-
atha of a temple, the chief difference being that the Nagara
type comes to have a curvilinear form and forms a real
spire, while the Dravida retains its original terraced forma-
tion with ranges of cells at each level’. P. K. Acharya
Dictionary of Hindu Architecture explains the passage
in Manasara on which Ram Raz’s statement, as quoted by
Havell, is based, thus, ‘The Nagara style is distinguished
by its quadrangular shape, the Vesara by its round shape,
and the Dravida by its octagonal or hexagonal shape’.
The joint authors of the present work have correctly shown
that a proper interpretation of the original in Manasara
asedited by Acharya, on which the above statements are
based, clearly proves that the latter are incorrect. The
Silpagastras including the Suprabhedagama and Manasara
really lay down that the Nagara temple-type is characteri-
ted by the quadrangular character of the Vimana all
throughout, the Vesara one by a Vimana crowned bya
circular éikhara above the neck, while the Dravida by a
ina crowned by an octagonal or hexagonal sikhara
10

Google
166 NOTICES OF BOOKS

above the neck; the Manasdra alludes to an
in the case of both the Vesara and the Dravida styles, but
not of the Nagara’. The authors have, in this connection,
rightly discussed the geographical origin of these three
terme and have criticised the findings of P. K. Acharya
who also studies this question thoroughly. There is no
difficulty about explaining the geographical association of
the Dravida type ; but to associate Nagara and Vesara with
northern India (the land of the Nagari alphabet) and with
the Telugu country respectively, as has been done by
Acharya, is unjustifiable according to the authors. They
propound that even though the association of the first with
anorthern style goes back at least to the latter part of the
16th century, the term northern is a relative one and it
really denotes that part of the Deccan which lay separate
from the Tamil land; they go further and locate the
Nagara style (its definition is intended to apply to the
Kadamba style also) in the Calukyan country which would
thus be northern in relation to that of the Dravida style.
They have, however, based this hypothesis on certain
premises which are partially open to objection. Thus,
while advocating the southern origin of the Manasara,
they think that the reference to the images and shrines of
Subrahmanya as well as of Saptamatykas, and to the
antelope and drum as attributes in the hands of Siva in the
work distinctly emphasi its southern character. But
it must be observed that as early as the early centuries
of the Christian era, Svami Brahmanya, a variant of
Subrahmanya was well knewn in northern India as a
synonym of the War-god (Cf. the coins of the
Yaudheyas found in the southern and south-eastern parts
of the Punjab); the Saptamatrka images do not hail from
the south of the Vindhyas only and lastly antelope as an
attribute of Siva was also sufficiently well known in the
north inthe early centuries of the Christian era (Cf. the
representation of Siva on the Oecsho coins of the Kanigka
group of kings). Nor is their allusion to Fiibrer’s discovery

Google
NOTICES OF BOOKS 167

of a large two-storied Siva temple, ‘built of carved brick and

dating from the Ist century B.C.’ at Rampur in the Bareilly
district of the United Provinces, a very happy one. However,
these few minor points raised here do not in the least
minimise the usefulness of the publication in question.
The authors have gone deep into it and their first-hand
acquaintance with a good many of the early Deccan
temples and their proper understanding of their architec-
tural detaile have enabled them to tackle satisfactorily
the difficult problem of the determination of the various
temple-types as laid down in texts.

Dr. Gravely, the author of the second Bulletin on ‘An
Outline of Indian Temple Architecture’, has developed the
theme already outlined in Bulletin No. 1. The author here
has not only used the frame-work of his earlier joint effort
to fitin many interesting and new data collected by him
after a careful observation of many Deccanese temples, but
also has widened his scope and taken into consideration
many and various temple-types of northern India, hailing
from such remote regions as Nepal and Kashmir. He has
rightly struck a note of caution about the identification of
the ‘Northern’ or ‘Indo-Aryan’ style of Fergusson with the
Nagara style of the Silpasastras. As regards Ferguson's
Southern form of temple to be equated with Dravidian—
the name of a single style, the author has rightly pointed
out that in this, a confusion has been made between
two really different styles of temple architecture which
developed along different lines in southern India in the
Tamilian and Kanarese districts. For minimising the
danger of confusion, he would dub one of the two as
Tamilian which would properly describe the one current
in the Tamil land. He has discussed the evolution of some
interior decorative motifs of this style with a great deal of
precision.

It is impossible to take stock of all the special features
of the above Bulletins in the short space of thie review. It
must be observed, however, that these two well-written

Google
168 NOTICES OF BOOKS.

enhanced our knowledge about this most
intricate problem of Indian archeeology and similar attempts
with such handling of detail will be greatly appreciated.
The drawings accompanying the volumes and the single
plate appended to the second one fully serve their purpose.

works have much

Jrmenpra NaTH BANERJEA.

Google
Honorary Secretary's Report on the Eighth
International Congress of Historical
Sciences, Zurich, 1938

Zurich, the largest city in Switzerland, the centre of
her industry, commerce and finance, and the seat of her
world-renowned educational institutions, was the venue of
the Eighth International Congress of Historical Sciences
which held its sittings during the week from the 28th August
to the 4th September 1938. To what extent this session has
justified the title of the Congress will best appear from the
fact that it was attended by delegates from no less than
forty-nine different nations including, the President
declared, the first representative delegation from British
India. Even distant and war-distracted China senther re-
presentative in the person of Dr. Hu-Shi, Hon. Ph. D.
(Harvard). To quote further the felicitous words of the
Congress President it was as if the authorities had
ed a new world like what was found by the Spa: adven-
turers. Among the delegates attending the Congress from
British India, one noticed Father Heras, representing the
Government of India, Prof. Ward representing the Univer-
sity of the Punjab, Prof. H. K. Sherwani, a representative of
the Osmania University, while the Greater India Society was
represented by its Hony. Secretary, Prof. |. N. Ghoshal.
On the opening day of the Congress, welcome addresses
were delivered in French, German and Italian (the three
official languages of Switzerland) on behalf of various Swiss
organisations. This was followed by the learned address of
the President of the Congress, Prof. Harold Temperley of
Cambridge University, which fully shared in the polyglot
character of the Proceedings. On the six following days
took place in the spacious rooms of the Federal Institute of

Google
170 ZURICH CONGRESS

Technology the meetings of the different sections of which
there were as many as fifteen this year. These were (I)
Prehistory and proto-history, (Il) Classical Archaeology,
(III) Auxiliary sciences, Archives and Organisation of His-
torical Work, (IV) Numismatics, (V) Middle Ages and
Byzantium, (VI) Modern times down to 1914, (VII) History
of Non-European Lands, (VIII) History of Religions, Church
History (Middle Ages and Modern times), (IX) History of
Laws and Institutions (Middle Ages and Modern times),
(X) Economic and Social History (Middle Ages and Modern
times), (XI) Military History, (XII) History of Ideas, (XIII)
History of Sciences, (XIV) Historical Method and Theory
of History, and (XV) International Centre of Synthesis. In
addition, four sittings were devoted to a special section, that
of Historical Demography. The largest number of papers
was offered for section VI which accounted for as many
as fourteen sittings. In section XII Prof. Sherway
paper on Islamic Political Philosophy which w:
received by the audience. What concerned Indi
outward connections came under section VII (History of
Non-European lands). In this section Dr. Ghoshal read a
paper on A Rare Indian temple type in Combodia in
which he sought to identify the term nandika mentioned in
arecently discovered inscription of Cambodia with a type
of square temples mentioned in Agni and Garuda Puranas,
the Manasara and the Jaina canon. He also tried to connect
the known characteristics of the art of Indravarman I (author
of the Cambodian inscription) with the description in the
Silpaéastras. Prof. Krom, Father Hi Dr. Wiedmar and
others joined in the resulting discussion. This was followed
by a paper of Prof. H.G. Seth which was read in the
absence of the author by Prof. U.N. Ghoshal, Vice-Presi-
dent of the section. Then came the ingenious and learned
paper of Father Heras, The story of Minotaur in the light
of Mohenjo-Daro inscriptions, in which he sought to
connect the pictorial representation on a Mohenjo-Daro
seal with the well-known Greek legend of Theseus and the

read a

Google
ZURICH CONGRESS 7

Minotaur of Crete. This naturally gave rise to a lively
discussion.

Among the items of business done by the Congress,
Gne which was of special interest to India was the forma-
tion of a Commission of the Far-East with European and
Indian members for establishing contact with India, China
and other lands. Another important development was that
the proposed Indian Historical Association, which had been
in the air for some time, took some definite shape, and a
provisional scheme was drawn up for preparation of a
bibliography of Indian historical publications in recent
times. This last work was done at some informal meetings
in which Father Heras, Prof. Ward, Prof. Sherwani and
Prof. Ghoshal took part.

Zurich abounds in excellent educational and other
institutions of which the members took full advantage during
the Congress sittings. Among its objects of special interest
to students of History and Archaeology may be mentioned
the Zwingli Room in the Central Library along with its
historical exhibition, specially arranged for the occasion,
of Swiss illustrated chronicles as well as book-sheets and
Prints of I5th and 16th ceturies, the array of historical
documents with papal and imperial seals and seals of Swiss
cantons, etc. at the State Archives, the pre-historic collection
and the rooms of various centuries at the Swiss National
Museum, and last but not the least, the collection of Swiss
and foreign painters and sculptors from the 15th to the 20th
centuries at the Art Gallery.

We can only notice here a few of the entertainments
arranged by the Congress authorities for the delegates and
visitors who enjoyed them immensely. There were the re-
ception by the Society of Antiquaries and the University
at the Technological Institute, the receptions of the Guild-
houses, the steamer-trip to Rapperswill (including a visit to
the Polish Historical exhibition in the mediaeval castle), the
reception by various consulates and representatives of the
Zurich society, the reception by Prof. and Frau von

Google
192 ZURICH CONGRESS

Meyenburg at their quaint residence on the banks of the
Zurich Lake called the ‘Schipf’, the railway trip to the lofty
peak of Rigi-Kulm commanding a magnificent view of five
Swiss cantons with the lakes, and so forth. Besides these,
there was a little entertainment given to the British Indian
delegates by the members of the British delegation at a local
restaurant. This gave an opportunity for mutual contact
which was much appreciated by the Indian delegates. It
was also a matter of gratification to the latter that one of
them, Father Heras, was elected to the Executive Committee
of the Congress for the coming term.

The last sitting of the Congress took place like the
opening session in the beautiful Church of St. Peter.

Google
Honorary Secretary's Report on the Twentieth
International Congress of Orientalists,
Brussels, 1938

The Twentieth Session of the International Congress of
Orientalists was held on seven successive days from 4th to
10th September, 1938 at the historic city of Brussels
which for the beauty of its monuments and the art and
culture of its citizens has fitly won the title of la petite Paris.
It was quite gratifying to find that India was represented at
the Congress by no less than eight learned institutions, not
to speak of the Universities of Calcutta and Bombay which
also sent representatives. Among the delegates attending
the Congress one met the familiar figure of Father Heras
who worthily represented along with Prof. Raghu Vira the
Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute of Poona ; Mr. S.
Yusuf, Assistant Director of the Hyderabad Archaeological
Survey ; Dr. P. Masani who represented the Bombay
University other institutions; Dr. Suniti Kumar
Chatterji who attended a representative of the Calcutta
University and of the Royal Asiatic Society of Bengal. The
Greater India Society was represented by its Hony.
Secretary Prof. U.N. Ghoshal who was also the representative
of the Royal Asiatic Society of Bengal and the Calcutta
University. There was besides a sprinkling of Indians
Persecuting advanced studies at the British and the Conti-
nental Universities. The opening sitting of the Congress took
place under the presidency of the Minister of Public Instruc-
tion in the grand hall of the Palais des Academies which is
one of the most distinctive edifices in the Belgian capital. It
was here that the President of the Congress, Dr. Jean Capart,
delivered his speech after the welcome address by the Mini
ter of Public Instruction. The following days were devoted
to meetings of the different sections, of which there were

"

Google
174 BRUSSELS CONGRESS

as many as nine: (1) Egyptology and Africanism, (2) Assy-
riology. (3) Central Asia, (4) India, (5) The Far East and
Indonesia, (6) Semitic Languages and Peoples, (7) The Old
Testament and Judaica,(8) Islam, and (9) The Christian East.
The sessions were held in the rooms of the Royal Museums
of Art.and History which for the richness and variety of their
collections rank among the greatest in the world and whose
situation in the midst of the magnificent Parc du Cinquan-
tenaire commemorating the fiftieth year of Belgian inde-
pendence is such as would delight the eyes of all lovers of
beauty. Of the papers presented at the Congress we may
mention a few bearing specially on Greater India, These
are G. de Hevesy—Une immigration inconnue dans I'Inde
(suggesting on the basis of the Munda languages an Uralii
migration into India before the coming of the Arya
H. G. Quaritch Wales, Light thrown by recent excavations
on identification of some historic sites in Malaya (announ-
cing the results of some excavation: ill in progress),
M. Lalou, Les manuscrits tibétains de Toueng-houang con-
servés dla Bibliotheque Nationale de Paris (announcing
completion of the first fasc. of catalogue of this precious
collection by the end of this year), and R. le May, A survey
of Buddhist sculpture in Siam (distinguishing six periods
in the history of this art from 400 to 1600 A. D.). Prominent
mention may also be made of the most interesting lantern
lecture of J. Hackin, Reconaissances archéologiques en
Afghanistan (delivered under the joint auspices of the
Belgian Institute of Advanced Chinese studies, the Belgian
Society of Oriental Studies and the Section on the Far East
and Indonesia) at the Hall of the Colonial Union, in
which by means of colour films the learned conservator
of the Musée Guimet gave a most informative survey of
excavation work undertaken by him on some Afghanistan
sites during recent years. Among papers specially con-
cerning India may be mentioned:—K. Chattopadhyaya,
The goddess Simalia-Sumalia (suggesting that she was a
Mother-Goddess and not a mountain-goddess and was

Google
BRUSSELS CONGRESS 175

connected with the Great Goddess of Phrygia), S. K.
Chatterji, Sanskrit and the Perso-Arabic alphabet (remarks
on aunique MS. giving some Sanskrit texts in this Perso-
Arabic script in the collection of the Royal Asiatic Society
of Bengal from which valuable sidelights are thrown on
the medizeval pronunciation of Sanskrit in Kashmir); Ibid,
The origin of the name Calcutta; S. Corbiau, Le Culte
de la double-hache dans l’Inde; U.N. Ghoshal, Some types
of circular temples in Ancient India (distinguishing five types
of such structures actually in existence and connecting them
with descriptions of similar’ types in the Silpasastra, illustra-
ted with 16 diagrams); H. Heras, A Proto-Indian represent-
ation of the Fertility God (remarks on a nude figure on some
Mohenjo Daro amulets with suggestions of Sumerian,
Cretan and Egyptian affinities); J. Filliozat, Nagarjuna et
Agastya (remarks on certain texts on alchemy and black
magic attributed to these personags St. Schayer, Einige
Bemerkungen iiber das Zeitproblem in der fruhbuddhistischen
Philosophie (suggesting that Kala is only a synonym
for Samskara, according to the system of the Kosa)
Raghu Vira, On the proposed new edition of the
Ramayana ; Otto Stein, The importance of the study of
the Silpasdstra; Pisani, On the Mahabharata problem ;
H. von Glasenapp, Der Ursprung der buddhistischen
Dharma-Theorie; J. Ph. Vogel, A project for a dictionary
of the ancient geography of India, and S. Yusuf, Paithan
excavations (lantern lecture).

The occasion of the sitting of the Congress was marked
by anumber of important presentations of works made by
some of the delegate Such were the four volumes of
metrical versions in Italian of portions of the Mahabhi
with connecting links by Prof. Carlo Formichi,who collabora-
ted with the translator, the late Dr. Kerbaker, along with
Dr. Pi anumber of Vedic and other works by their
editor and publisher, Prof. Raghu Vira ; some files of the
Journal of the Greater India Society presented by the editor
Prof. U.N. Ghoshal ; some numbers of the New Indian

Google
176 BRUSSELS CONGRESS

Antiquary by Prof. S. K. Chatterjee, etc. In presenting on
behalf of the Italian Indologists the four volumes of the
Mahabharata in Italian the work is to be completed in
five volumes in all), Prof. Formichi speaking in his mother
tongue paid a glowing tribute to the Mahabharata as the
greatest poem of the world. A noteworthy item of business
at a meeting of the Indian section was the adoption, at the
instance of Prof. Otto Stein, of a resolution requesting the
Director-General of Archaeology to take steps in collabora-
tion with the various Indian Universities for preparing a
series of atlases of Indian material civilisation. The Indian
Section adopted another resolution recommending to the
support of all interested bodies and persons the new vario-
rum edition of the Ramayana projected by Dr. Raghu Vira.
The busy days of the Congress were made very enjoy-
able to the assembled delegates by a round of entertain-
ments. Of these special mention may be made of the
reception by the Municipal Administration of Brussels
at the Town Hall dating from the I5th century and
adorned with numbers of historical pictures, the reception
by the Belgian Government at the Royal Museum, and lastly
the reception by the Catholic University of Louvain, follow-
ed by the excursion to the Colonial Palace and the Belgian
Congo Museum at Tervueren with its magnificent park.
Mention may also be made of the reception at the Royal
Library (accompanied with an exhibition of ite oriental
collection). Like the opening session, the last sitting of
the Congress took place at the Palais des Academies,
when after the concluding address of the President and the
passing of a number of resolutions, Paris was announced
as the seat of the next Congress and a thanl
was delivered by:Prof, D. S. Margoliouth,

Google
SHORT NOTICES

We have pleasure in announcing that the authorised
English translation of Prof. Krom’s Hindoe-Javaansche
Geschiedenis by Mr. H. B. Sarkar, which was undertaken
by the Greater India Society last year, is complete in MS.
It is now being revised in successive instalments by its
learned author who is adding to his claim for the Society's
gratitude by enriching it with supplementary notes, It is
expected that the work will be sent to the Press in two or
three months’ time.

‘We beg to, inform our readers that our forthcoming
publication, Prof. G. Tucci’s Travels of Tibetan pilgrims in
the Swat valley is in an advanced stage of printing. We
can only regret the delay that has occurred in the
appearance of this work.

The library of the Greater India Society has been
enriched by the acquisition of nearly seventy photographs
of antiquities mostly from Central and Eastern Java, which
have been kindly supplied by Dr. W. F. Stutterheim, Head of
the Archaeological Survey of Netherlands-India, in exchange
for a complete set of the Greater India Society's publica-
tions. This has been one of the happy results of the con-
tact which the Honorary Secretary of the Greater India
Society was able to establish with Dr. Stutterheim at the

Trivandrum session of the All-India Oriental Conference
last year.

Dr. Kalidas Nag, Joint Honorary Secretary of the
Greater India Society, retumed to India after four months’
tour in Australia and the neighbouring lands. Selected as a
representative of the Government of India at the second
session of the British Commonwealth Relations Conference

Google
178 SHORT NOTICES

which was held at Sydney in September last, he visited on
the way the Universities of Perth, Adelaide and Melbourne
At the close of the Conference, he made a trip to New
Zealand studying Polynesian art and antiquities among the
Maoris and visiting the Universities and Museums of Auck-
land and Wellington. In the following November, he
passed through Melanesia to the Philippines, where he deli-
vered a series of lectures on Greater India and cognate topics
at the State University of Manilla and other learned institu-
tions. The Institute of Pacific Relations at Manilla elected
him as an Honorary Member of the Society in recognition of
his attainments, From Manilla he retumed home, revisiting
on the way the centres of culture at Saigon, Bangkok and
Singapore. Dr. Nag's report will be published in the next
issue of the Journal of the Greater India Society.

Google
BOOKS RECEIVED

The Greater India Society acknowledges with thanks
the receipt of the following books, periodicals, pamphlets
etc., during the last six months.

Periodicals

Adyar Library Bulletin (Brahma-Vidya) Vol. I, Part 4,
Vol. ii, Part 2, Madras, 1937-38.

Annals of the Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute,
Vol. xix, 1938,

Bijdragen tot de Taal-Land-en Volkenkunde van
Nederlandsch-Indié, Deels 96 & 97, ‘s-Gravenhage, 1938.

Buddha-Prabha, Vol. 6. No. 2, April, 1938.

Bulletin of the Colonial Institute of Amsterdam, Vol. 1,
Nos. 2, 3 & 4, Amsterdam, 1938.

Bulletin de I'Ecole Frangaise d’Extréme-Orient, tome
xxxvii, Fase 1, Hanoi, 1938,

Bulletin of the School of Oriental Studies, Vol. ix, pt. 3,
London, 1938.

Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Annual
Report for 1937, New York, 1937.

Djawa, 18 Jaarg, No. 1-2 & No. 3,4. en 5, Jogjakarta,
Java, 1938.

Een Oudheidkundig Jubileum, Oudheidkundig Dienst
in Nederlandsch-Indié, 1913-1938.

Indian Historical Quarterly, Vol. xiv, Nos. 1, 2& 3,
Calcutta, 1938.

Journal of the Annamalai University, Vol. vii pts. 2 & 3,
Annamalainagar, 1938.
Journal of the Assam Research Society, April 1938,

Journal of Indian History, Vol.{xvii pts. 1 & 2, Madras
1938,

Journal of the Malay Branch of the Royal Asiatic
Society, Vol. xvi pt. I, July 1938.

Koninklijke Vereeniging Koloniaal Institut, Amsterdam,
Zeven en Twintigste Jaarverslag, 1937.

Google
180 BOOKS RECEIVED

Man in India, Vol. xviii No. 1, Jan-March 1938.

Mededeeling No. xlvii. Afdeeling volkenkunde, Nos.
11 & 12. Amsterdam, 1938.

Koninklijk Bataviaasch Genootschap van Kunsten en
Wetenschappen, Jaarboek V, Bandoeng, 1938.

Literatuur-Overzicht voor de Taal-Land-en Volken-
kunde en Geschiedenis van Nederlandsch-Indié, Jaar. 1937,
Deel Il, ‘s-Gravenhage, 1938.

Oriental Literary Digest Vol 1. No. 7. Poona 4, 1938.

Ostasiatische Zeitschrift, N. F. 13 Jahrg., 5 & 6 hefts,
Berlin, 1937.

Polski Biuletyn Orientalistyczny, Vol. 1, Warsaw, 1937.

Tijdschrift voor Indieche Taal- Land- en Volkenkunde,
Deel Ixxviii, Aflevering 2, 3 & 4, Batavia, 1931.

Tropisch Nederland, x1 Jaargang, No. 14, Amsterdam,
1937,

Books, pamphlets etc.

Drewes, G. W. J. en Poerbatjaraka, De Mirakelen van
Abdoelkadir Djaeloni, Bandoeng, 1938.

Sadananda, Swami, Suvarnadvipa (Sumatra), Calcutta,
1938. Campa, Calcutta, 1938.

Sahni, Dayaram, Archaeological Remains and Excava-
tions at Bairat, Jaipur State, 1938.

Sharpe, Elizabeth. An eight-hundred Year Old Book of
Indian Medicine and Formulas, London, 1937.

Srikantaya, S., Founders of Vijayanagar, Bangalore City,
1938.

Sactivel, Krena-Lild, Paris, 1937.

Google
THE

JOURNAL

OF THE

GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

EDITED BY

U. N. GHOSHAL:

VOL. V, 1938

Published by the Greater India Society.

CALCUTTA
1938,

Google
Original from

Digitized by Google UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
THE
JOURNAL OF THE GREATER INDIA SOCIETY
Vou. V (1938)

CONTENTS

Articles: Page

Contributions from the Mahavamsa to our knowledge
of the mediaeval culture of # Ceylon (Or. Wilhelm

Geiger) oo 1,98
Copper-plates of Kembang Arum, 2 Sak H

B. Sarkar)... ” 31
Epigraphic notes (Dr. D. C. Sirear) os wo (154
Indo-Javanese images in Berlin, Amsterdam, and

London Museums (Dr. F. M. Schnitger) ae 2

a (Prof. K. A. Nilakanta Sastri) ... we 128
agara in the Kaumudimahotsava (Dr. D. C.

Sircar) ae ove 59
New drama of Aévaghors (Prof. Vidhushekhara

Bhattacharya) .. oo on 51
Note on Indian proto-types of the Papa relief

(Mr. J. N. Banerjea) on ” 54
Note on a type of Lokeévara in Comba (Dr. U. N-

Ghoshal) Py ” 56
Ragtrapalanataka of Advaghora (Dr. E. H. Johnaton) 151
Some notes on the kingdom of Dvaravati (Dr. H. G.

Quaritch Wales) on oe aoe 24
Some Indian parallels of Lokeévara types in Indo-

China (Dr. U. N. Ghoshal) ow we (147
Notices of Books we on we 61, 159
Editorial Notes ... nee ase 169
Obituary (Mr. N. G. Majumdar) a > 157

Google
ALPHABETICAL LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS

Page
Banerjea, Mr. Jitendra Nath, A note on the
Indian prototypes of the Papar relief ees 54
Bhattacharya, Prof. Vidhushekhara, A new
drama of Aévaghoga on 5 we 51
Ghoshal, Dr. U, N., Note on a type of
LokeSvara in Cambodge «.. ae oe 56
Some Indian parallels of Lokesvara types in
Indo-China... we we «147
Geiger, Dr. Wilhelm, Contributions from the
Mahavamsa to our knowledge of the mediaeval
culture of Ceylon > + wl 93
Johnston, Dr. E. H., Ragfrapalandtaka cf
Abvaghoya«. we we ST
Sarkar, Mr. Himansu Bhusan, Copper plates of
Kembang Arum on one 3
Sastri, Prof. K. A. Nilekanta, | Kafaha ... - 128
Schnitger, Dr. F. M., Indo-Javanese images in
Berlin, Amsterdam and London Museums on 22
Sircar, Dr. D. C., Katahanagara in the Kaumudi-
mahotsava—.. os ” oe 59
Epigraphic Notes oa on one 154
Wales, Dr. H.G. Quaritch, Some notes on the
kingdom of Dvdravati —«. oe a 24

Google
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
GRADUATE LIBRARY

DATE DUE

1

La

10.

* GREATER INDIA STUDIES
java and Bi

4, Indian Influences on the Literature of

Bhusan Sarkar, M.A,
2. Travels of Tibetan Pilgrims in the Swat Valley—By Dr. Giw

(in the Press)

21, BADURBAGAN ROW, P.O. AMHERST STREET,
CALCUTTA. :

original trom >
pinta by Google UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN. <3
