THE JOURNAL

OF THE

GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

AA

Yr vant TESEARCH INSTITRTE,
Tee UR COCHIN STATE,

ahh t$Sa

Pp. oA

hgh a STON mee reed it
— , nN \ L " , '
+ ' : '

JOURNAL OF THE GREMTEINOIA SOCIETY
JANUARY, 1935

CONTENTS
Articles

A Sanskrit MS. from Tibet—Kamalasila’s Bhavana-
hrama eet ber |

By Dr. E. Obermiller. Ph. D.

Decline and Fall of the Sailendras , - 3
By Prof. Dr. R. ©. Majumdar, M. A., Ph. D,

The Sailendravaméa a 7” 25
By Prof. Dr. J. pidyhiel, D. Litt.

Nligration of Indian Decorative Motifs |...
By Devaprasad Ghosh, M. A., P. R. 8.

A Sanskrit treatise by a Tibetan author .., a: 47
By Pandit Vidhushekhara Bhattacharya

An Old-Javanese Inscription from P&nampihan of

Page

the Saka year 1191 +“ fer 55
By Himansu Bhushan Sarkar, M. A
ldentification of Sri Visnuvarman of the Perak Seal ... 7
By Dr. Bahadur Chand Chhabra, Ph. D,
The Celebes Bronze-Buddha wee 76
By Dr. Bahadur Chand Chhabra, Ph, D,
Notices of Beoks 7

G. Tucei & E, Ghersi, Cronaca della Missione Scienti-
fica Tueci nel Tibet Occidentale (1933) Reviewed
by C, Riaudo
M. B. Garde, Archaeology in Gwalter. A Guide to
the archaeological Museum af Gwalior, Reviewed
by U.N. Ghoshal,
Miscellany wn bes 83
Select Contents of Oriental mrarcele a. ves 86

rye oy

i
BAME VARMA FESFARCH INNUEISE
CARICA UR. ‘OCHIN STAC

Yel Le Wo. FFE. ian

0s”

THE JOURNAL

OP THE

GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

Vo ., II JANUARY: 1935 No. 1

A Sanskrit Ms. from Tibet—Kamalasila's
Bhavana-krama

By Dr, E. Obermiller.

The reign of the King Thi-sron-deu-tsen (Khri-sron-
Idehu-btsan, VII century) represents a period of the greatest
importance in the early history of Tibet in general and of
the spread of Buddhiem in that country in particular. The
activity of the great Santiraksita ("‘Acarya Bodhisattva’') and
of Padma-seambhava, the selection of the first seven
Buddhist monks of Tibetan origin (sad-mi mi bdun), the
foundation of numerous sites of Buddhist learning in Tibet,
and the intense literary activity of the Tibetan learned
translators {lo-tea-ba}—Pal-tseg (dPal-biteegs) and others by
whom a great number of Buddhist canonical and scientific
works were rendered into Tibetan,—all this has been des-
cribed by Bu-ston in his History of Buddhism and in other
Tibetan historical works.

There is, however, one subject relating to the spread
of Buddhism in Thi-sron-deu-tsen’s reign, to which the
Tibetan historian devotes his special attention and on which
he dwells in detail. This is the strife between two parties
into which the Buddhists of Tibet were at that time split.
One of these parties consisted of the pupils and followers
of Acarya Santirakgita who professed that form of Mahayana
2 E. OBERMILLER

Buddhism which was generally acknowledged in India and
Nepal, viz. the teaching of the Path to Enlightenment
through the practice of meditation connected with, the
dialectical analysis peculiar to the Madhyamika school of the
Buddhists and with the practice of the six Transcendental
Virtues (pdaramita).

The leader of the other party was a Chinese teacher
thwa-gan or ho-shang) known by the Sansknt name
Mahayanadeva, who preached a doctrine of complete
quictism and inactivity. According to him every kind of
religious practice, the meditative exercises and all virtuous
deeds as well were completely useless and even undesirable;
the liberation from the bonds of phenomenal existence was
to be attained merely through the complete cessation of
every kind of thought and inental activity,—by abiding
perpetually in a state analogous to sleep. Bu-ston’ relates
how this party grew very powerful and found numerous
adherents among the Tibetans, how the followers of Santi-
raksita suffered oppression from it, and how the king who
was an adherent of Santirakgita’s system, invited Santi-
rakgita's pupil, the teacher Kamaladila in order to refute the
incorrect teachings of the Chinese party. The dispute
between Kamalaégila and the Chinese Ho-shang in which the
latter was defeated is described by Bu-ston? in detail. We
read that the leading men of the two parties” assembled in
the presence of the king, that the Ho-shang was the first to
speak in favour of his theory of quietism and inactivity and
was answered by Kamalagila who demonstrated all the
absurdity of the theses maintained by the Ho-shang and
showed that the teachings of such a kind were in conflict
with the main principles of Buddhism and were conducive
to the depreciation and rejection of the most essential
features of the Buddhist Path to Enlightenment. We read

| Cf. my Trenslation, Vol. 1], p. 192.

2 fhid., pp. 192. 193.

3 Known by the Chinese names Tén-miin {sTon-mun, the parly of
the Ho-shong) and ‘Tsen-min {r¥sen-min, the adherents of Kamaladile}-
A SANSKRIT MS. FROM TIBET 3

further on how the chief adherents of Kamailadgila’ likewise
refuted the theories of the Ho-shang, how the latter and his
party acknowledged themselves vanquished and were ex-
pelled from Tibet by order of the king who prescribed to
follow henceforth the Buddhist doctrines that were generally
admitted,—the teaching of the six Virtues as regards. religi-
ous practice and the Madhyamika system of Nagarjuna as
regards the theory.”

Thus the influence of the Chinese Ho-shang’s teachings
over the minds of the Tibetans suffered a complete defeat
and with it perhaps some political influence of China.’ This
ig certainly a most important event in the history of Tibetan
Buddhism which has been duly appreciated by Bu-ston. It
is therefore quite natural that we should be interested in
finding out the sources of, Bu-ston’s historical record. But
the text of Bu-ston’s History’ which, as a rule, contains
references to the works on the foundation of which it has
been compiled, does not give us any information here. At
the first glance the account of the controversy looks like the
reproduction of an oral tradition and there is nothing that
could make us conjecture the presence of a literary work
upon which the record could have been founded. The
following will show that it has now become possible to trace
out this work, to compare with it the account given by
Bu-ston and to ascertain its historical importance.

lt will be most interesting to observe that our source is
contained in the works of that very Acarya Kamaladgila who
gained the victory in the controversy described by Buc-ston.
The Asiatic Museum of the Academy of Sciences at
Leningrad possesses a small Sanskrit MS., a gift of the late
Dalai Lama, which has been brought from Tibet by the
Tshar-ftid Khambo (mtshan-fiid mkhan-po) Agvan (Nag-

| Srighoga (Tib. dpal-dbyans) and Jianendra (Tib. Ye-des-dbati-po}.

2 Hencelerth the Madhyamika has become the predominant schoo!
in Tibet.

3 Kamaladila was subsequently murdered by ithe Ho-shang's
adherents,
4 E. OBERMILLER

dban) Dorjeyin or Dorjeev, the Head Lama of the Buriat
and the Kalmuk Buddhists. The said MS. consists of eight
leaves, grey Tibetan paper, in Nepalese characters, «very
legible and correct, the number of mistakea being quite
insignificant. The edges of the leaves are singed, but the
damage is not considerable (usually not more than 3 or 4 letters
are wanting from both sides). On the upper part of fol. 1
we have the title in Tibetan, in the running handwriting:
ka-ma-la-gi-las mdzad-pahi sgom-rim. The calophon on fol. 8
runs: Acarya-Karnaladgila-nibaddho Bhavand-kramah samap-
tak. The title of the work is thus: Bhavend-krame
(Tib. sgom-rimn}—''the Process of Meditation,’’ fe., the teach-
ing about the exercises of Yoga which are peculiar to the
Path to Enlightenment of Mahayana Buddhism.

Now in the Tangyur, MDO., Vol. XXX(A) we have the
‘Tibetan translations of three worke ascribed to Kamalaiila,
all bearing the same title Bhavana-krama. They follow one
after the other and are distinguished as: sgom-rim daf-po =
Parva-bhavanaé-krama (fol. 22-45, Peking ed.), sgom-rim
bar-ba-= Madhyama-bhavanad-krama (fol. 45-60), and sgom-
rim tha-ma=Aniye-bhavand-krama’ (fol. 60-84). Of these
three, the last one represents the Tibetan version of our MS.
with which it shows the most perfect correspondence, so
that it becomes possible to restore all the defective parts of
the MS. and correct the mistakes. The Tibetan translation
has been carried out by the Lotsava Ye-Ses-sde (Jiianasena)
with the assistance of the Pandit Prajiavarman. We have
prepared an edition of both the Sanskrit and the Tibetan text
of the Bhdvand-krama which we intend to publish before long
with a translation in English and a complete bilingual Index
Verborum, It is not our purpose at present to dwell upon
the principal subject-matter of the work which is the process
of meditation consisting of mind-concentration or mental
tranquility (Sametha=di-gnas} and transcendental analyeis
{cipagyand ~thag-nthon).? Our aim is to show that the text

1 Or, as Cordier (p. 318} has it,—Utlera-bhavand-krama.
2 Ci. my “Doctrine of PrajAa-paramita”. p. 17.
A SANSKRIT MS. FROM TIBET 5

directly refers to the controversy between Kamalaéila and
the Chinese party which ended with the defeat of the latter
and the cessation of its influence over the Buddhists of
Tibet.

Now, on fol. 4 sqq. of the MS. we read: ("There are
some) who adhere to the following point of view: Through
the efficiency of good and bad deeds which are called forth
by the constructive activity of the mind (citta-vikalpa-
samutthapile-gubhagubha-karma-vagena), the living beings
migrate in the Samsdra, experiencing repeated births in
heavenly and other states of existence—the fruit of their
deeds. Those on the contrary who do not think of anything
at all and commit no deeds become delivered from the
Samsara, Therefore {in order to attain Nirvana) one must
not think of anything. Neither ought one to practise charity
and other virtues (since the virtuous deeds call forth further
rebirths in the Samsara, which, blissful though they be. still
invaniably bind one to Phenomenal Existence, but cannot
bring about the complete liberation from the bonds of the
Phenomenal World). The practice of charity, etc., has been
prescribed only with a view to the stupid ordinary people
(kevalam murkha-janam adhikrtya danadi-kugala-carya nir-
digta). —

"Now, he who speaks in such a manner will come to
reject the whole of the Mah&ayanistic Doctrine. And, as the
Great Vehicle is the foundation of all the Vehicles in
general, its depreciation leads to the rejection of all the
Vehicles (i.c., of all the main Buddhist teachings). Indeed,
he who says that one must not think of anything whatsoever,
will have to reject, deny or depreciate the Highest Wisdom,
the essence of which is correct thorough-going analysis of the
true state of things (fetha hi na kimeic cintayitavyam iti
bruvata bhata-pratyaveksd-lakgand prajad pratiksipid bhavet).
And throuch the rejection of it the highest supermundane
transcendental wisdom of the Saint is likewise rejected (iat-
pratikgepal lokottara’ pi prajfa pratiksipta bhavet), the

1 Cf. Bu-ston, Transf., Wol. Il, p. 193,
6 E. OBERMILLER

resection of the latter in its tum leads to the rejection of
the Omniscience in regard of all the aspecta of existence
(sarva-Ghara-jfidta) which is the final goal of the Mahayanist.
(All this must necessarily occur), since (all) true knowledge
is founded upon correct thorough-going analysis, (the rejec-
tion of which renders all correct knowledge impossible),”

Thereafter the author condemns the depreciation of the
practice, of virtue, charity, ctc. The virtuous acts of the
Bodhisattva are the skilful means (updya) which, in connec-
tion with the highest analytic wisdom, represent in sum the
whole of the Mahayanistic Path. We have here quotations
from the Gaydgirga-sdtra' and the Tathdgata-guhya-sitra.?
The passage ends with a very vehement utterance:
"Therefore the words of him who despises the Mahayanistic
Doctrine, whose learning is defective, who is full of conceit
regarding his own {incorrect) views, who does not pay the
due respect to the wise, who has not mastered the rules
prescribed in Buddha's Scripture, and who, himself morally
ruined, brings others likewise to ruin,—these words, being
infected by the poison of contradiction, violating Logic and
Scripture, are like venomous food and ought to be cast
away far off by every wise person who cares for his own
benefht."* “i

After that Kamalagila again speaks about the absurdity
of the views according to which one has but to reject alt
mental activity in order to become delivered from Samsara.
"Indeed", he says, "he who depreciates the correct analysis
of the true state of things, shall reject that most esgential
component element of Enlightenment which we call the
perfect analysis of the elements of existence (dharma-
pravicayakhyam pradhanam eva bodhyahgam), And
without the thorough-going analysis of the true state of things,
how can the mind of the meditator (Yogin) who from time
beginningless has become accustomed to a realistic concep-
tion of Matter and the other elements, how can it {all on a
sudden) come to the state which is free from «ll constructive

1 Cf, Bu-ston, Transf., Vol. 1, p. V1
A SANSKRIT MS, FROM TIBET 7

thought {and which represents Nirvana?—vind ca bhita-
pratyaveksaya yoginah katham anadi-kélabhyasta-ripdady-
bhavaphinivesasya citiam nirvikalbatém pravigei). If it is
said that onc comes to this state by not recalling in memory
any of the clements of existence and by not directing the
mind upon them (sarva-dharmesu asmpty-amanasikadrena
pravisati), this will be incorrect. Indeed, without a thorough.
going analysis of the true state of things, the cessation of
recollection and mental activity regarding all the elements
experienced by us, cannot be realized (na hi vind bhiita-
pratyaveksaya’ nubhiyamanesv api sarva-dharmesv asmrtir
amanasikdro vd gakyate kartum). If one thinks: | have not
to recall] in my mind these elements nor to direct my
thoughts towards them,—and thus supposes to become
trained in non-recollection and absence of mental activity,—
this will really, as.a matter of fact, be a most intense re-
collection and activity of the mind with regard to the said
elements (yadi ca na’ mi dharma maya smariavyad na’ pi
manasi-kartavyd ity evem bhavayann-asmytimanasikdrau tesu
bhavayet tad@ sutardm eva te smrta manasi-krta$ ca syuh),
“IF it is said that the mere absence of recollection and
mental activity represents the cessation of these two factors
(which is the desired aim), then we shall ask: in what manner
does this absence manifest itself? If we analyse the subject,
(we come to the conclusion that) the state of liberation from
all dialectical thought-construction cannot have for its cause
a mere absence. If this were the case, we should make the
absurd conclusion that a person in a swoon has attained
(Nirvana), the state where there is no constructive thought,
inasmuch as recollection and mental activity do not exist
with him (sammarcchitasya api smrti-manasikdrabhavar
nirvikalpatd-pravega-prasangah), As a matter of fact, the
cessation of recollection, mental activity, (and of all dialcc-
tical thought-construction) is impossible without the analysis
of the true state of things (ra ca bhite-pratyaveksam vind
anya updayo’ sfi yena prakarena asmrty-amanasikdrau Ruryat).
“Moreover, without this thorough-goimg analysis, how
can the non-substantiality, the absence of an indcpendent
8 E. OBERMILLER

essence of the elements come to be cognized (vind bhata-
pratyavekgayd nihsvabhavatd dharmandm katham avagata
bhavet}? The cognition of the elements as devoid of an
essence of their own (i.¢., of their Relativity) ie impossible
without the analysis of the elements, And, without the
cognition of Non-substantiality, the removal of the Obscura-
tions becomes impossible {na’ pi vind sanyata-prativedham
averana-prahdnam sambhavati}. Otherwise all living beings
would be delivered (from the outset).

“Moreover. if owing to the want of memory or the
stupidity of the meditator, recollection and mental activity
do not manifest themselves, then, being completely stupid,
how can (such a meditator) be called a true Yogin? In_this
ease he who trains himself in the abolition of recollection
and mental activity without analysing the true state of things
will be merely accustomed to a state of torpor and apathy.
Consequently, the light of true knowledge will be drawn far
away (from such a person),

“But then let us suppose that {the meditator is neither
deprived of memory nor stupid), In such a case how can
he {all on a sudden} cease to remember and to think, without
having analysed the true state of things? It is not proper
to say that one does not recollect when one undoubtedly
does so (just as it is absurd to maintain that} one does not
perceive when one really does (vind bhita-pratyavekgayd na
Ai smarann-eva na smarati pasyann eva na pasyati iti yukiam
abhidhadtum), And if one has become accustomed to expel
all kinds of recollection and thoughts, how can the
remembrance of the place of residence in a former birth and
the other properties of a Buddha take their origin? (asmrty-
amanasikardbhydsdeca  katham pirca-nivdsdnusmplyadi-
buddha-dharmedayo bhavet). There will be a contradic-
tion! Indeed, a person who all the while has to do with
cold objects which stand in direct opposition to the hot
ones,! cannot experience the contact with something hot.

| Ch} Nyayabindu, p. 68 and Stcherbatsky, Buddhiat Logte,
Wol, H, p. 187.
A SANSKRIT MS. FROM TIBET 9

Again, if with the Yogin who is merged in trance mental
consciousness! does exist, then it must necessarily be based
upon some object. Indeed, the ordinary worldlings® cannot
all on a sudden become possessed of that objectlesa pure
cognition (which ie the exclusive property of a Saint),
Suppose on the contrary that mental consciousness does not
exist (with the meditator merged in trance),—But, how then
will the non-substantiality of the elements be cognized?
And by means of what antidote will it be possible to remove
the obscuration of moral defilement (kena ca pratipaksena
klegavaranam prahiyeta}? And moreover with an ordinary
worldling, even with one who has attained the 4th degree of
trance (dhyana) the annihilation of the mental faculty is
impossible.

For all these reasons, if within the pale of the Highest
Doctrine the absence of recollection and mental activity
(regarding the objects of the Phenomenal World) is spoken
of, it must be viewed as necessarily preceded by the correct
analysis of the true state of things. lt is only by applying
this analysis (to everything cognizable} that it becomes
(finally) possible to preduce (the state of mind in which there
is} no recollection and mental activity, not otherwise.
Indeed, when the Yogin whe investigates (the elements} by
means of correct analytic wisdem (nlrapayan samyak-
prajfiayd yogi) does not perceive any element of existence
whatsoever in the present, past, and future as becoming
really originated (kalatraye paramarthatah samulpannam na
kamcid dharmam pagyati}, how can he (after having thus
copgnized their unreality) recall them in memory and direct
the mind towards them? That which owing to its unreality
in the present, past, and future is not perceived from the
standpoint of ultimate reality,—how can it be remembered
or thought of? Consequently {as the consideration of the
reality of the separate entities is put an end to on the basis
of their analysis which conveys the notion of their unreality),

| Mano-vijAana=yid-kyf ream-per ées-pe.
Z Prthagjana=so-s0hi skye-bo.

2
10 E, OBERMILLER

one attains to the knowledge free from constructive thought,
the pacification, of all pluralism (teto’sau sarca-prapanico-
pagamam nirvikalpem jidnam pravisto bhavet), By attain-
ing to this knowledge he cognizes directly the principle of
universal Non-substantiality (and Relativity which represents)
the Absolute Truth. Through this cognition he throws off
the nete of all false views (prahina-sakala-kudysti-jalo
bhavati), and by taking recourse to the Highest Wisdom
connected with skilful means, becomes proficient in the
cognition of the Conventional! and the ‘Absolute Reality.’

“Accordingly, by obtaining the wisdom free from the
Obscurations, he realizes all the properties of a Buddha
without exception (afo’ néaearana-jnana-labhat sarvan cva
buddha-dharman adhigacchati). Therefore without the
correct analysis of the true state of things the origination of
right knowledge and the removal of “the Obscurations are
both impossible,’ etc., etc. (follow’ numerous quotations
from canonical texts, as the Semadhiraja, Ratnamegha,
Samdhinirmocana, etc.).

Now, if we compare with this passage the speech of
Kamalagila, the reply given'to the Ho-shang as rendered by
Bu-ston in his History, we find that Bu-ston’s version
represents a literal reproduction of the text of the Bhavana-
krama which js only slightly condensed.*? It is thus quite
clear that Bu-ston has used the Bhavand-krama as a source
and we can only wonder at the accuracy and precision with
which he has rendered it. Just as in the account of the first
two Councils of the Buddhist Congregation where Bu-ston
faithfully reproduces the version of the Vinaya-kgudraka
without indicating his source, in the same manner here, in
communicating a most important event in the history of
Tibetan Buddhism, he bases his account upon a source, the
title of which is nowhere mentioned by him, and which

| Samoyti-saiya= hur rdzob-bden-pa.
2 We have given above the Sanskrit original of the passagea given
by Bu-ston. See Transl, Vol, Il, pp. 193, 194,
A SANSKRIT MS. FROM TIBET iH

now discloses itself as the work of Kamaladgila, the principal
personage connected with the said event.

Qn the other hand we must equally point to the import-
ance of Bu-ston’s History for the due appreciation of
Kamalagila's work. From the text of the Bhdvand-krama
alone it would never have been possible to make out who
was actually the opponent refuted by the author. We could
have been able only to ascertain that the opponent was one
who favoured a teaching of complete inactivity. Nowhere,
throughout the whole of the work, do we find the slightest
reference to China and Tibet,—very typical for an Indian
Pandit who does not like to mention his adversaries directly,
[t is Bu-ston’s History from which we get full information
as concerns the polemic contained in the Bh@vand-krama.
Bu-ston thus enables us to appreciate the work of Kamalasila
and makes it appear to us as it really is—an important
decument relating to the ‘history of Tibetan Buddhism.
Decline and fall of the Sailendra Empire*

By Dr.R. C. Majumdar.

The long-drawn struggle with the Colas which continued
throughout the eleventh century A. D. and at one time
threatened utter destruction to the Sailendras, ended in a
draw.

After fruitless efforta of a century, the Colas finally
abandoned the impossible enterprise of maintaining their
suzerainty over Sumatra and Malay Peninsula. The
Sailendra kingdom, exhausted and humiliated as it was,
slowly recovered ita former position.

But although we can definitely trace the existence of the
kingdom for nearly three centuries more when it was finally
destroyed, the Sailendra dynasty passes from our view.
After the beginning of the twelfth century A. D. we hear no
more of that powerful ruling family that dominated Malay-
sia since the end of the eighth century A. D. This does not,
of course, mean that they vanished or even ceased to reign,
but only that we do not possess any definite information of
them. For all we know, they might atill continue to rule
over the kingdom.

The continuity of the kingdom is, however, clearly
attested by the Chinese and perhaps also Arab accounts,
which still refer to the prowesa of San Fo-tai and Zabag.

The Chinese annala refer to two embassies from San Fo-
tsi in the twelfth century A. D.

In the year 1/56 king Si-liema-ha-la-sha (Sti Maharaja)
sent envoys to bring tribute. The emperor said, ‘When
distant people feel themselves attracted by our civilising
influence, their diacernment must be praised. It is therefore

* Continued from Vol. f, p. 97.
DECLINE AND FALL OF THE SAILENDRA EMPIRE 13

that | rejoice in it, but not because | want to benefit by
product of their country.'"*

in®the year 1178 they sent again envoys to bring as
tribute products of the country. On thisoccasion the emperor
issued an edict ordering that they should not come to court
any more, but make an establishment at Chuan-chou in the
province of Fukien.*

According to Ma-Twan-Lin the ambassadora of [178
reported that their king had succeeded his father in A. D.
1169. So the emperor invested the new king with all the
titles and privileges of his ancestora and made auitable
presents.”

The Arab writera Edrist (1154 A.D.) Kazwini (A. D.
1203-1283), Ibn Said (1208 or 1214 to 1274 or 1286 A. D.),
and Dimaski (c. 1325 A. D.) all refer to the glory and power
of Zabag.* But it is difficult to say whether they write from
their own personal knowledge or merely ‘quote from old
writers, as many others expressly have done. But in any
case the Chinese accounts definitely prove the existence of
the kingdom. Ye

Fortunately we possess an interesting account of the
extent of this kingdom in the twelfth century A. D.
from the Chinese work Chu-fan-chi ("Records of foreign
nations’’), The author of this work is Chau-Ju-Kua, Inspector
of Foreign Trade in Fukien,*

As to the date of this Chinese author Hirth and Rockhill
conclude from a rernark the author makes in his chapter on
Baghdad, that the work was composed between 1242 and
1258 A. D.® Pelliot has, however, shown that the author

1 Groenveldi—Votes, p. 67. Both Groenveldt and Ferrand (}.4.,
II-XX, p. 22) restore the name as Mahirija.

2 Groeneveldt—Notes, p. 67. 3 Ferrand, op, ctt., p. 22. n. 2.

4 Ferrand, op. céf., pp. 65-74,

5 Chau-fu-Kae—His work on the Chinese and Arab trade in the
twelfth end thirleenth centuries entitled Chu-fanchi. Translated by
F. Hirth and W. W. Rockhill, St. Petersburg, (1912}.

6 fbid., p. 137,
14 R. C. MAJUMDAR

wrote the preface to his work in 1225 A.D.’ We must,
therefore, hold that the work was originally written in or
about 1225 A. D., although additions and alterations «night
possibly have been made during the next twenty-five years.

M. Coedés holds the view that Chau-Ju-kua’s account of
San Fo-tsi is almost entirely based on an earlier work Ling-
Wartai-ta, written in 1178 A. D,, and as such the picture
which he draws can only be regarded as true of the period
anterior to 1178 A. D.*?. There dees not appear to be any
valid reason for this assumption. Hirth and Rockhill are
definitely of opinion that Chau-}u-Kua’s account of San-Fo-
tsi ia’ based exclusively on oral information furnished to the
author by Chinese and foreign traders.'"*

As we shall see later, some details given by Chau-Ju-Kua
(c.g., the inclusion of Ceylon as a dependency of San Fo-tsi)
can only be explained if we assume the date proposed above.

In any case we can take Chau-Ju-Kua’s account asa
correct picture of the state of things in the twelfth century
A. D. Now according te this Chinese author, San Fo-tsi was
master of the straits of Malacca and thus controlled the
maritime trade between China and the western countries,
San Fo-tsi itself was a great centre of trade, and fifteen
states were dependent upon it. These are*

|. Péng-fong (= Pahang).
2. Téng-ya-néng (=Trengganan).
3. Ling-ya-ssi-kia (=Lengkasuka).

1 ‘T'oung Pao, Ser. 11, Vol, X11), p. 449.

2 BKJ., 1927, p. 460.

3 Op cit., p. 37,

4 The identifications of names given within brackets are on the
authority of Ferrand (om, cit, pp. 13:!4) and Krom, Geschiedenis
(pp. 303-4),

On Nos. 3, 6 and 9, see discussions above, Vol. 1, pp. 78-79 of this
Journal, According to S. Lévi, Nos, 7 and 8 must be looked for in the Malay
Peninsula (Etudes Asiatigues, vol. Il, pp. 168-9), but Schlegel (T’oung
Pao, Ser, 11, Vol. I, p. 135) and Gerini (Researches, p. 627), place them
in Sumatia, The identification of No. 5 is on the authority of Gerini
(Researcher, p. 825).
DECLINE AND FALL OF THE SAILENDRA EMPIRE 15

4. Ki-lan-tan (=Kelantan).
5. Fo-lo-an (=Beranang on the Langat river, west

coast of Malay Peninsula).
6. Jilot'ing (=Jeloting on the east (?} coast of

Malay Peninsula}.
Ts'ien-mai.
Pa-ta.
Tan-ma-ling (=Tamralinga or Ligor in Malay
Peninsula).
l0, Kia-lo-hi (=Grahi=Jaya, south of the Bay of
Bandon).

ll. Pa-lin-fong {=Palembang).

12. Sin-to {=Sunda)}.

13. Kien-pi (=Kampe or Kampar)}.

14. Lan-wu-li (=Lamuri=Atjeh).

15. Si-lan (=Ceylon).

in addition to the general list of countries subject to

San Fo-tsi, as given above, Chau-Ju-Kua has given separate
accounts of Ling-ya-ssi-kia, Tan-ma-ling, Fo-lo-an, Sin-to,
Kien-pi, Lan-wu-li and Si-lan.’ Among these, the first two
and the last had their own kings, but they sent tributes to
San Fo-tsi. No king is mentioned in connection with Fo-
lo-an, but the author remarks, “lt sends yearly tribute to
San Fo-tsi. Its neighbours Péng-féng, Téng-ya-nung and
Ki-lan-tan are like it."’ According to Ling-wai-tai-ta the
chief of Fo-lo-an was appointed from San Fo-tsi, This may
be true of all the four states.”. As regards Sin-to Chau-Ju-
Kua saya: ‘As, however, there is no regular government in
this country, the people are given to brigandage, on which
account foreign traders rarely go there." About Kien-pi we
ate told, ’’Formerly it was a dependency of San Fo-tsi, but,
after a fight, it set up a king of its own.’’ Nothing is said
about the political status of Lan-wu-li, in the very brief note
which Chau-ju-kua gives more as an introduction to his
account of Si-lan, than as an independent account of that

eo oO™M

j Cheu-Ju-Kue, pp. 67-73,
2 ibid., p. 69, m. 1.
16 R. €. MAJUMDAR

kingdom. It would thus appear that Kien-pi had recently
shaken of the yoke of San Fo-tsi, but the other fourteen
states were tributary to the power. In spite of a, few
uncertainties, the identification of these vassal states, as
given above, would indicate that the empire of San Fo-tsi
included territories in Sumatra, Java and Malay Peninsula.

M. Coedés has attempted to show that although
the empire is called by the old name of San Fo-tsi, the seat
of the empire was now transferred from San Fo-tsi to
Malaya or Jambi.) His principal argument is that Chau-
Ju-Kua included Palembang among the dependencies of San
Fo-tsi, and as San Fo-tsi is identical with Palembang, the
seat of the empire must be at a place different from
Palembang or San Fo-tsi, He rightly points out that while
describing the empire of Java or ,Cambedge Chau-Ju-Kua
never includes these names among the list of their vassal
states. But Coedés” argument, as we have indicated above,
only discounts the view that San Fo-tsi is identical with
Palembang. The absence of Malaya from the list of vassal
states merely indicates that Malaya was no longer dependent
on San Fo-tsi. But neither the inclusion of Palembang nor
the exclusion of Malaya gives us any right to maintain, in
the face of the express statement of Chau-Ju-Kua about
San Fo-tsi, that that kingdom had yielded its place of pre-
eminence to Malaya.

M, Geedés seeks to support his view by reference to
the Jaiya inscription daled 1184 A.D. which refers to
Maharaja Srimet-Trailokyaraja-mauli-bhisana-varma-deva
and his governor of Grahi, Mahasenapati Galanai. Coedés
argues that if in 1183 A.D. the name of a king of Malayn
appears in a record of Jaya, it simply means that ‘'Malayu
had substituted its own authority in place of Srivijaya (sic)
over the pelty states of the Malay Peninsula.’?

| BAKA. 1927, 459
2 Ibid., p. 469. The Joiya inscription was originally edited by
M. Coedés (B.E.F.E.0., XVIII, No. 6, pp. 34-5). but the date was wrongly

read.
DECLINE AND FALL OF THE SAILENDRA EMPIRE 1?

But it is a mere gratuitous assumption that Trailokya-
raja-mauli-bhiisana-varma-deva is a king of Malayu. Ccedés
evidently relies on the fact that an inscription found at
Padang Rocho in Batanghari district in Jambi, refers to a
king named Maharaja Srimat-Tribhuvanardja-Maulivarma-
deva, as ruling in 1286 A.D.’ In spite of the resemblance
in the names of the two kings, who lived a century apart,
it would obviously be absurd te regard the royal name as a
monopoly of Malayu, and, in the absence of any other
evidence, to take the earlier king also as a ruler of Malayu,
although his records have been found in Malay Peninsula
alone. We must remember that the Sailendra emperors
also bore names like Cidamani-Varmadeva.

Further, Edrist (1154 A.D.) clearly says that the king of
Kalah Zabag and the neighbouring islands lived in the city
of Kalah which is clearly the Kataha of Cola records.*

There is thug no reason to disregard the evidence of
Arab and Chinese writers that the old kingdom of Zabag or
San Fo-tsi continued in its old glory and splendour till the
beginning of the thirteenth century. The Jaiya inscription
has perhaps furnished us with the name of the only individual
emperor of San Fo-tsi of the 12th century A.D. known to us.
For as Grahi has been identified with Chau-Ju.Kua’s Kia-lo
hi, it was a dependent state of San Fo-tsi towards the end of
the 12th and the beginning of the 13th century A.D, The king
whose dominions included Grahi as a Governor's province
in 1183 A.D, may not therefore, unreasonably be regarded
as a king of San Fo-tsi. Jt would thus be more proper to
regard the Maharaja Srimat-Trailokya-raja-mauli-bhigana-
varma-deva as a successor of Cidamani-Varmadeva, though
it is dificult to say whether he belonged to the same family.

Chau-Ju-Kua’s account of the great power of San Fo-tsi
is corroborated by an independent cvidence. About the time
when he wrote his book, we come across the name of a king

| Ferrand, (op. cif., p. 179).
2 Cf. my article in B.E.F.E.0., Vol. XXXII, p, 131,

3
ia R. C. MAJUMDAR

Candrabhanu in an inscription at Jaiya, dated 1230 A.D."
Coedés has established beyond all doubt that this king Can-
drabhanu is referred to in the Ceylonese Chronicles as
having led two expeditions aganst Ceylon.

The detailed account as given in Cullavamsa may be
summarised as follows.’

“In the eleventh year of the reign of king Parakrama-
bahu ll a king of Javaka, called Candrabhanu, landed with
an army at Kakkhata, on the pretext that they were
Buddhists and therefore came on a peaceful mission. The
soldiers of Javaka, who used poisoned arrows, treacherous!y
occupied the passages across the rivers, and, having de-
feated all those who opposed them, devastated the whole
of Ceylon. But the regent Viravahu defeated them in
several battles and forced them to withdraw from the land.
A few years later king Candrabhanu again landed at
Mahatirtha and his army was, on this occasion, reinforced
by a large number of Pandya, Cola and other Tami!
soldiers. After some initial successes the Javaka army was
surrounded end completely defeated by the Ceylonse troops
under Vijayabahu and Viravahu, King Candrabhanu some-
how fled with his life, leaving behind his family and treasures
in the hands of the victorious enemy.”

The date of these events has been variously interpreted.
But Coedés has established on good authority that the two
invasions of Candrabhanu took place in A.D, 1236 and 1256.°

| Edited by M. Cordés (B.E.F.£,0.. XVIII, No. 6, p. 32),

2 Cullavamsa, ie., the later continustion of Mahadvamsa—ed.
Geiger, Chap. 83, vv. 36-48; Chap. 88, vv. 62-75. The king of Javaks
mentioned in the passage was taken by Kern to refer to a Javanese
king (V.G. Ill, pp. 27 ff}, but he is now usually tuken os a king of
Srivijaya, For a more detailed discussion of the propoted identification
of. BELE.E.O., XXXII, (pp. 133 ff)

3 BK, 1927, pp. 459 ff. Cocdés has shown that the date usually
assigned to the Ceylonese king Parakramabahu II (A.D. 1240-1275)
should be pushed back by 15 years. He would thus hove ruled from
1218 to 1260 A.D. Coedés further points out that the account of Culla-
vamsa is corroborated by the Pali work Jinakdla-malini.
DECLINE. AND FALL OF THE SAILENDRA EMPIRE 19

Now the inclusion of Ceylon, among the vassal statea
of San Fo-tei has been justly regarded as the most surprising
of all, for although Masudi, in his ‘Meadow of Gold’ (I0th
century A.D.) refers to the Maharaja of Zabag as king of
Sirandib of Ceylon! there is no historical evidence to show
that Ceylon was a vaagsal state of the Sailendras,

But even in this respect, perhaps, on the face of it, the
least credible of all, Chau-Ju-Kua’s account is corroborated
to a certain extent by the passage of Cullavamsa quoted
above. For the Ceylonese author admits in a way the
triumph of the javaka army sometime in 1236 A.D.. before
Chau-Ju-Kua concluded his werk.

It is obvious that Candrabhanu's invasion of Ceylon was
an act of extreme inprudence and had the most regrettable
consequences. The two expeditions to the distant island
must have taxed the strength of the Javaka kingdom to the
utmost, and the disastrous end of the second expedition
weakened her prestige and authority beyond recovery.

In an inseription, dated 1264 A.D.*  Jatavarman Vira-
Pandya claims to have defeated and killed the Savaka king,
and in another inscription. dated the next year,’ he includes
the king of Kadara among the host of rulers conquered by
him, Savaka is no doubt the same as Javaka and we can
easily take the defeat of the kings of Savaka and Kadara
to refer to a defeat of one and the same king, as in the case
of Rajendra Cola. Thus the ill-advised expedition to
Ceylon by the king of Kadara was followed at no distant
date by his humiliating defeat and death at the hands of
the Pandya king.

The fact that the Paudya king boasts also of having con-
quered Ceylon, seems ta connect the Ceylonese expedition
of Candrabhanu with his defeat and death at the hands of

Jatavarman. It may be recalled that during his second ex-

| Ferrand—Texies, p. 93.

2 Annual Report of South Indian Epigraphy, 1917, Ins. No. 588,
pp. 50, 111.

3 Ibid, 1912, No. 39, p. 72,
20 R. C. MAJUMDAR

pedition against that island, Candrabhanu was helped by
troops from Cola and Pandya countries. Perhaps he made an
alliance with these Ewo powers and organised a joint ex’pedi-
tion against Ceylon, But hke many other similar allied expedi-
tions, jt was dissolved on the failure of the project, and then
Vira Pandya presumably took advantage of the helpless
situation of Candrabhanu and turned against him, It is also
quite likely that he betrayed first his two allies and then
the king of Ceylon, who was temporarily saved by his first
betrayal, This would explain the statement in the inscrip-
tion of 1264 A.D. that Vira Pandya "'was pleased to take
the Cola country, Ceylon, and the crown and the crowned
head of Savaka.”’ In other words he turned against both
his allies and defeated them and ended by conquering
Ceylon which was their common objective. This view
seems more reasonable than tbat: a_ regular naval ex-
pedition was sent by the Pandya king against Kadara or
Savaka, —_

Candrabhanu who thus met with a tragic end was the
last great ruler of the mighty -kingdom founded by the
Sailendras. The fact that he is styled the Savaka king and
king of Kadara, and felt powerful enough to send two
military expeditions to Ceylon discounts the view of Coedés
referred to above, that Malayu had established its supre-
macy over the petty states of Malay Peninsula, which once
acknowledged the suzcrainty of San Fotsi or Zabag. On
the whole, the available evidence would justify us in regard-
ing the last-named kingdom as continuing in power and
glory till the middle of the thirteenth century A.D.

In the Jaiya inscription, Candrabhanu is said to have
been born in the family of lotus. He is also called Lord of
Tambralinga. It is almost certain, therefore, that he did
not belong to the family of the Sailendras, Chau-Ju-kua
describes Tambraliiga aa a vassal state of San Fo-tsi having
a separate ruler. It would thus appear that Candrabhanu
had usurped the authority of his overlord by a successful
rebellion. We have seen above that Kien-pi, another vassal
state in Sumatra, had also successfully rebelled against
DECLINE AND FALL OF THE SAILENDRA EMPIRE Zi

San Fo-tsi about the same time. Thus the disruption of the
empire of San Fo-tsi both in Sumatra as well as in Malay
Penin®ula set in at the beginning of the thirteenth century
A.D,

The catastrophic end of Candrabhanu completed the
disruption and gave a unique opportunity to the Javanese
king Kytanagara to extend his authority over the dominions of
the Sailendras. He conquered Pahang in Malay Peninsula
which was a vassal state of San Fo-tsi. He also sent an
expedition against Malayu (Jambi) in [275 A.D.. and con-
verted it into a separate state under his own authority. The
Padang Rocho inscription of 1286 A.D., referred to above,
clearly shows that the new kingdom extended far into the
interior and its king Srimat-Tribhuvanaraja-Maulivarmadeva
regarded himself as a vassal of Maharajadhiraja Krtanagara.
Thus Java planted important outposts in the very heart of
the empire of San’ Fo-tsi from which it could gradually
extend its power and authority in all directions.

For the time being, however, these calculations were
upset by the tragic end of Krtanagara and the fall of his
kingdom. The Javanese army of occupation was withdrawn
from Malayu, and therewith the Javanese authority vanished
from the land. But San Fo-tsi which was not strong enough
to resist the Javanese encroachments was yet too weak to
take advantage of this opportunity to re-assert its authority
over Malayu. Malayu remained an independent kingdom
and soon became a powerful rival of San Fo-tsi.

The fact is that San Fo-tsi had not only te reckon with
the growing menace from the side of Java, but also to
contend with another great military power, the Thai, who
had conquered Siam and were extending their power
towards Malay Peninsula. The rise of the Thais of
Sukhodaya was an epoch-making event in the history of
Indo-China. Towards the close the the thirteenth century
A.D. they had conquered the northern part of the Malay
Peninsula. We know from the inscription of king Rama
Gamheng of Sukhodaya, dated 1792 A.D., that Sri Dharma.

raja of Ligor, one of the vassal states of San Fo.tsi, had
22 R. Cc. MAJUMDAR

already been conquered by the king of Siam.' Thus
hemmed in between the rising power of the Thais in the north
and the growing kingdom of Malayu in the south, the dis-
comhture of San F’o-tsi was complete. She Jost her position
of supremacy and sank into a local power. Henceforth her
posseasiona in the Malay Peninsula formed a bone of cen-
tention between Malayu and Siam.

San Fo-tsi continued this inglorious existence for nearly
a century. Wang-ta-yuen (1349 A.D.) refers to its king as
a local ruler, and says nothing of the great power and
splendour of the Maharaja.” The Nagarakrtagama (1365
A.D.) includes Palembang among the list of vassal states
of Java, and the Chinese accounts refer to the conquest of
San Fo-tsi by Java sometime before 1377 A.D. According
to the History of the Ming. Dynasty* the Chinese emperor
sent an envoy in 1370 A.D. “to command the presence of
this country, and in the next year (1371 A.D.) the king, who
was called Maharaja Prabu sent envoys with tribute and a
letter written on a golden leaf."

By the year 1373 A.D. San Fo-tsi was divided into three
states and their rulers, named Tan-ma-sa-na-ho, Ma-na-
ha-pan-lin-pang,‘ and Seng-ka-liet-yu-lan® sent envoys with
tribute to the imperia) court respectively in 1373, 1374 and
1375 A.D.

In the year 1376 A.D. king Tan-ma-sa-na-ho died and
his son Ma-la-cha-wa-li succeeded him. In 1377 A.D. he
sent tribute to the emperor and asked permission of the
imperial court to ascend the throne. This interference of
China in the affairs of a vassal state caused the just resent-
ment of the Javanese who had conquered San Fo-tsi. They

1 Ceedés—/necriptions de Sukhodaya (1924) pp. 37-48,

2 T’oung Pao (16) 1915, pp. 61-69,

3 Groeneveldi—Votes, pp. 68 ff.; Ferrand, f1.A4., IbXX {1922}
pp. 24 f,

4 Ferrand (op. cif.) reslores this name as Moahatraja—Palembang.

5 Ferrand (op, cit,} suggests that this king is identical with the
minisler seni by Java to the Imperlal Court in 1325 and 1332 A.D.
(op. cit., p. 25, mn. 2}.
DECLINE AND FALL OF THE SAILENDRA EMPIRE 23

waylaid and killed the imperial envoys who were bringing
to Ma-la-cha-wa-li the seal and commission of the king of
San Fe-tsi.

Thus there can be no doubt that Java now exercised an
effective authority over the kingdom of San Fo-tsi which
was hopeleasly divided and sank gradually into insignificance.
The Chinese historian pathetically remarks, “After this
occurrence San Fo-tai became gradually poorer and no tribute
was brought from this country any more.”

During the next twenty-five years the destruction of
San Fo-tsi was completed. Its condition in 1379 A.D. is
thus described in the History of the Ming Dynasty :—

"At that time Java had completely conquered San-bo-
tsai and changed its name to Kiu-Kiang.? When San-bo-tsai
went down, the whole country was disturbed and the
Javanese could not keep all the land. For this reason, the
local Chinese residents stood up for themselves and elected
as their chief a man from Nan-hai in Canton, called Liang
Tau Ming, who had lived there a long time and roamed
over the sea, and who had the support of several thousand
men from Fu-kien and Canton.”

In other words, a Chinese pirate set himself up as
overlord in a part at least of what was once the flourishing
kingdom of the Sailendras. This was no doubt due to the
weakness of Java. Java was able to destroy the old kingdom
but could not build up a new one in its place. Krom even
goes so far as to think, that the destruction of San Fo-tsi
was a deliberate act on the part of Java. In order to wipe
off from the face of the earth a power that had been in
the past, and might be in future, a great rival in political
and economic spheres, she intcntionally and systematically

| Kiu-Kiang is the Chinese name for Palembang up to the present
day (Groeneveldt—Notes, p, 71, 1. 1), but cannot be taken as
equivalent to San Fo-tsi . [ft must have denoted only a part of that
kingdom. | have discussed this point in an article in B.E.F.E.0.,
vol, XXII, p. 135.
24 R. Cc. MAJUMDAR

laid waste the country, which afterwards became a strong-
hold of Chinese adventurers.

From the beginning of the ffteenth century A.D, San
Fo-tsi passes from our view. One or more Chinese
adventurers establish authority in that hapless land from
time to time, but their history and intercourse with the
imperial court, described in detail in the History of the Ming
Dynasty, is outside the scope of this essay.

In conclusion we may refer to Kadara. If we are right
in identifying it with Keddah we may refer to Keddah
Annals (Hikayat Marong Mahavamsa) for the seven Hindu

tulers of the State before the last one adepted Islam in
1474 A.D.

| R. O. Winsiedt—History of Kedah (f. Sir. Br. R. A. S., No. 8,
The Se llendravamek
By Dr. J. Przyluski *

The Mahdsudassana-suttania describes the city of Kusa-
vati, the fabulous residence of an ancient universal monarch
in the following terms:—''The Capital Kusavati, O Ananda,
wags surrounded by seven enclosures; one of the enclosures
was made of gold, one of silver, one of beryl, one of crystal,
ene of ruby, one of coral, and one of all jewels."

Another redaction of the Mahdsedassana-suttanta, insert-
ed in the Vinaya of the Milasarvastivadins, equally attributes
seven enclosures to the city of Kusavati. But these are
made of four precious substances alone, viz., gold, silver,
beryl and crystal.’ ; ” «

Nevertheless, the series of seven jewels reappears in
a text of the Mahasamghika school. The Mahavastu con-
tains a detailed description of Dipavatt, capital of the Cakra-
vartin Arcimat. This town has seven enclosures covered
with gold, to which are added ‘seven vedikajdlas, brilliant
and beautiful, of seven colours, namely those of gold, silver,
mother-of-pearl, beryl, crystal, coral and ruby.”* We
could imagine each enclosure to have been built on a base
covered with gold and surmounted by an open cloister-wall
(vedikajala) analogous to the railings surrounding the Buddhist
stipas.*

As Kirfel has already observed,” the city of the Cakra-
vartin inevitably recalls Ecbatana, of which seven enclosurers

* Translated by Dr. U, N, Ghoshal.

| Digha-nik., Il, p. (70.

2 Tripiteka, Tokyo edition, XVIi, 2, p. 80s; Dulva, Peking
edition, XU, f. 250b, Black edition, XI, f. 592b.

3) Mahavaatu, |, p. 194.1. 3 and 19-20.

4 CK La uille du Cokravartin, Influences babyloniennes aur le
civilisation de I'Inde, in RO, Vol. V (1927), p. 179 and 180,

5 Die Kowmographie der Inder, p. 35 ff.

4
26 J. PRZYLUSKI

according to tradition, were of diverse colours. those of gold.
silver, orange, blue, purple, black and white.’ Ecbatana
connects itself, besides, at once with the Mesopotamian and
Indian cities. In fact, we know that the city of Uruk passed
for being surrounded by seven walls. It was, besides,
designated by the same ideogram as the rainbow, which
corresponds to the celestial spheres and the planets.’

The relation between the planets, the colours and the
precious substances is a distinctive feature of Babylonian
astrology. These correspondences have again cetermined
the decoration of the Zikkurais, which, with their central
temple and with their coloured storeys occasionally number-
ing seven, form somewhat the copy of the city of
seven terraces like Uruk and Ecbatana. According to a
cuneiform tablet, deciphered by P. Scheil, the seventh and
the last storey of the tower of Babylon was variegated like the
seventh enclosure of Kusavati after the description of the Pali
sutta, Apart from the two frst colours (viz., those of gold
and silver}, which are common to the Indian, Iranian and
Mesopotamian series, the list of colours is far from being
constant in the Semitic series. One need not be surprised
at the disagreement which is presented by the other
texta.”

The residence of the Indian Cakravartin like that of the
Babylontan monarch, is made after the model of the terraced
towers surmounted by a temple. The universal monarch
resides there because being like the sovereign of the gods,
he must live hke him at the summit of the cosmic mountain.
Sumeru and the Zikkurat, the imperial city and the celestial
temple, might be juxtaposed ag equivalent symbols iu the
political and the religious order.*

| Herodotus, 1, 98.

2 A. Jeramias, Alforientafische Geisteskultar, p. 51.

3° For other analogies between the residence of the Cakravattin and
the Mesopotamian cilicu, cf, La ville da Cekravartin, p. 181 and 182.

4 Simultaneously with my researches upon the relation between
the 4ikkurat and the city of the Cakravariin, Drs. W. F. Stutlerheim and
C.L. Fab have studied the influence of the Zikkurat upon Indian art in
THE SAILENDRAVAMSA 27

These notions once admitted, the question presents
itself :—"']s it always the same mountain, which is the proto-
type “of the imperial city in the countries of Indian
civilisation?"

In the 17th Avadana of the Divydvadana,’ the Cakra-
vartin Mandhatar crosses the seven mountain ranges, which
form the boundary of Sumeru and instals himself on the
summit at the residence of the thirty-three goda,? It is
clear that according to the redactions of the Buddhist text,
the city of the Cakravartin must be after the model of the
Sakra Devendra, Just as the Indra of gods resides on the
summit of Sumeru, the Indra of men must live on this
mountain, or at least possess a reduced model of the same.

Let us transfer ourselves to the Sivaite miliet. We must
a@ Prior! expect a transposition of these notions: the Sumeryu
will be replaced by Kailasa* or at least the mountain of
the Cakravartin will be considered as the residence of Siva.

The Indian colonies and India itself furnish numerous
examples of royal cities designated by one’ of the names of
Siva, which indicates the ‘idea that the residence of the
Cakravartin was considered at the same time as the residence
of Mahesvara. | shall only cite a single example, because
it will be useful for understanding what follows.

genera] and upon the stiipa in papliculai, An exposilion and an enlarge-
ment of these views will be found in the very important wok of M. P. Mus,
in course of publication; Barabudur in BEFEO, Vol. XXX! pp. 324 ff.

| This avadéna forms part of the Vinaya of the MGlasarviativadin.
CF, Dufea, Il, Ff. 327, ti. in Tibetan Tales by Ralston after Schiefner,
atery No, I, There are two Chinese irensiations of this text: (a) Tokyo,
VI, 6& (CF, Chavannes, Cing cent Conics No. 40); {b) Tokyo, XIE, 2,
p. 75a, A much shorter redaction of this muedane is fadtaka No. 258.
Cf. besides Bodhisattue-avaddnakalpalota, No, 4. and Mahabharata Itt,
126.

2 tasyo omirdiini devindm trayestrimgaingm Sudardenam  nitma
nagarem, Divydv., p. 218.

3 In speaking here of Kailfies, Ido nol wish to assert that the caos-
mic mountain was called after this mame. Some other terms such aa
Hemddri, Svarnadri ete, could have equolly signified the divine mountain
considered as the shode of Siva, since the coamle mountain Kailasa or
Meru is a mountain of gold.
28 J. PRZYLUSKI

Modifying an hypothesis of Gerini, M. L. Fimet pro-
posed in 191] to recognise in the name Fu-nan (ancient
b’u nam) a transcription of the Khmér vnam (modern pinom)
signifying a mountain.! In 1927 he suggested that the
expression employed by the Chinese historians ‘king of the
country of Fu-nan’ must correspond to an indigenous title
kurun vnam ‘king of the mountain.” In fact the inscription
of Han-cei calls the king of Fu-nan parvatabhipala.’

We might discuss this point to find out whether such
expressions as kurun unam and parvatabhdpala should be
translated as ‘king of the mountains’ or otherwise. But this
discussion which would draw us rather far is not necessary
here. What concems us for the moment is to ascertain if
the sacred mountain, which was the holy place _of the kings
of Fuenan, was the residence of Indra or Siva. Now we find
indication of this in the Chinese accounts, which expressly
mention a magical mountain where there was a sanctuary
of Maheévara.? It is therefore probable that the kings of
Fu-nan possessed a mountain which was a reduced model of
the one where Maheévara sat on his throne.

1 rn

In a recent article of this Journal* M. Coedés has
tried to demonstrate that the kings of Fu-nan bore the title
of ‘Sailaraja’, We find, on the other hand, a Sailendra
dynasty in Indonesia. M. Cceedés builds the following
hypothesis on thia analogy: “The Chinese annalists tell us
that the kings of Fu-nan were compelled to emigrate more to
the south te the town of Na-fu-na where they vegetated
perhaps till the end of the seventh century. Now, it was in

1] BCAT, 1911, p. 29.

2 JA, Vol. 210 {1927}, p. 186.

3 When the monk Nagasena was sent to China by Jayavarman
king of Fu-nan, in 484 A.D., the greatest wonder that he narrated was
that there waa in that kingdom a mountaln called Motan, where the god
Mahegvara descended without ceasing snd where the plants never
withered. (BEFEO., If, 260).

4 }GIS, Vol. [, pp. 68-69.
THE SAILENDRAVAMSA 29

the first part of the following century that there appeared in
Java. the founder of the dynasty of Mataram, to which be-
longett the donor of Kalasan, Rakai Panankaran, “ornament
of the Sailendra dynasty’. Must we suppose that these
Javanese kings claimed to be the deacendants, or the inheri-
tors of whatsoever title of the Sailaraja of Fu-nan? One
fact seems to justify thia hypothesis. The accession of the
Sailendras of Java in the 8th century coincides with this
obecure period in the history of Cambodia, during which the
Chinese historians inform us that the country was split up
in twain, and the Arab geographers relate that the khmér
country had troubles with Zabug and was compelled finally
to accept its suzerainty,

“These facts accord well enough with the hypothesis
that the descendants, real or fictitious, of the emperors of
Fu-nan after having carved out a dominion in Java in the
hrat part of the 8th century afterwards tried to claim back
their ancient poasessiona.

| propose toe show that this thesis which is based upon
some conjectures does not exclude other possibilities. ‘There
is nothing to prove that the Indonesian Sailendras belonged
originally to Fu-nan. If, as M, Coedés admits, the title
‘Sailendra’ signifies “king of the mountain’, a Cakravartin,
possessing anyhow! a sacred mountain could be called
‘Sailendra’, and no inference can be drawn from the fact,
that thia title would be common to the Cakravartin of Fu-nan
and of Indonesia. The last fact itself is very doubtful. To
establish this fact, M. Ccedés relies upon the following
passage in the inscription of Kuk Prali Kot :—

“‘Srifdnavermmd rrpatih prajmearataikasamsrayah
Ya dasit kréntabhuvanas = Sailardjasamunnatih."’

Thia verse appears simply to signify that king Isanvar.

man after traversing the earth became superior to the other

1 The word Cokrovertin, it is true, does not always indicate the
sovereign of a very extensive kingdom. The Indo-Chinese and Indo-
nesian kings have always abused the [ndian title, Jn the same way, in
modern times the king of Annam did not hesitate to assume the same
tile as the emperor of China,
3 J. PRZYLUSKI

kings in the same manner as Himalaya is supenor to the
other mountains.’ None of the alleged facts appears cap-
able of supporting the inference of M. Cocdés, wiz., that’ ‘the
Sailendras of Java claimed connection with ancient
Fu-nan."'? Before framing a historical hypothesis on the use
of the title "Sailendra’, it is proper to scek its exact signi-
ficance first of all.

Generally speaking, by principle the great Indian
dynasties have at their beginning a divine or supernatural
origin, In the epics Saryavamga and Somavaméa signify the
royal lines descended from the Sun or the Moon. In
Indonesia and in Indo-China the dynasties often have a
ndgi for their ancestor.” Surya and Soma are vamda-
keras like the négi. Since Indonesian epigraphy mentions
a Sailendravaméa, if the question is asked, what is here the
vaméakara ?—the answer necessarily ig: the ‘Sailendra’ and
itis already understood that the Sailendra must be a divine
personage. In the epics and elsewhere Siva is called Ciriéa
and this term is synonymous with ‘Sailendra’, It may,
therefore, be presumed that Sailendra, the divine ancestor
of the Sailendravaméa, is one of the forms of the god Siva.

lé this explanation is correct, no inference can be drawn
from the fact that in two distinct lands two dynasties have
borne the same name’. That these kings were called
‘Sailendra’, ‘Sailaraja" or otherwise, is na doubt instructve
for the history of beliefs and of culture. But we cannot
draw from it any conclusion concerning the historical origin
of these dynasties,

But are we justified in admitting the equation Sailendra

1 Prof, L, Finet writes to me:—"Your Interpretation of the dloka
of the inecription of Kuk pr&h kot in the more admissible, asx it seem+
io be an echo of a verse from Reghuvaméa. Raghu., 1, 14.—"'ethitah
raivennatenorvim fidatead Merur ivatmana”’ ;

2 JGIS, Vol. Lp. 69.

3 J. Przyluski, Lo Princesse a f'odeur de poisson ef fa nagi dane les
traditiona de l'Aaie Qrientale, in Etudes Asiatiques, published on the

f
aceasion of the 25th Anniversary of |'Ecole Frangaiee d'Extr@me-Orient,
1925, p. 265-284.
THE $AiILENDRAVAMSA 4]

=Siva? Why did not the Indonesisns, if they wished to
designate Siva, choose one of his usual names? When
celebrated names such as ‘Mahadeva’ and ‘Mahedvara’ were
open to them, why did they prefer an equivalent of ‘Giriga’,
which could be confounded with the name of Himavat,
called also ‘Sailendra’? The answer to this question must
be sought for in Indonesian mythology.

The Bataks inhabit the north-western half of the island
of Sumatra. In their cosmology the universe is divided into
three worlds: at the top, the world of gods: in the middle,
the earth, where men live; at the bottom, the world of souls
and of demons. The greatest god is Batara guru; his king-
dom is on high; his residence is called Bandjar dolok, ‘City
of the Mountain’; his daughter Sideak parudjar is celebrated
for her achievements; it is, she who has created the
world,’ <, |

Under his Indian name the Batara guru of the Bataks
is .prohably an old Indonesian deity. Indeed he corres-
ponds to the spirit Tan-vien of the Annamites, who is called
the God of mountains, because he is the god of the highest
mountain. The Indian equivalent of this god is Himavat,
also called Sailendra, whose daughter is the mighty Parvati.
Himavat is the ‘king of mountains’ because he is the god
of the highest mountain. This is how the facts could be
represented. When the inhabitants of Sumatra were con-
verted to Hinduism and gave Indian names to their deities.
the king of mountains became ‘Bhattira guru’, that is to
say, he was identified with Siva-Rudra, who dwells in a
mountain since the Vedic period. As ‘king of mountains’
he was qualified to take the title of ‘Sailendra’ and the
Bandjar dolok must have been regarded as the residence of
the god who dwells on Kailasa,

In later times under the influence of Mahayanist betiefs.
Siva was confounded with the supreme Buddha under the

| J. Warneck, Ute Religion der Batok, pp. 4:5 and 26. Warneck
holds that before Batara guru the Bataks worshipped a crealor-god called
Mula djadi, but this hypothesis ls contestable.
32 j. PRZYLUSKI

name of ‘Bhattéra-Buddha’. In the Tantric treatise Sang
hyang Kamahdyanikan, partially written in Old-Javanese,
diverse entities are interspersed between Bhattira-Buddha
and Dhyani-Buddha, and so the former appears as a sort of
Adi-Buddha.' In the Kufjarakarpa, an identification is
effected between Siva and Buddha. Buddhapada is des-
ciibed as the dwelling-place of Mahadeva and the five
Dhyani-Buddhas are brought on a par with the Sivaite
Kusikas, who are reported to say: ‘"We are Siva, we are
Buddha’’. Homage is frequently offered to Vairocana with
the words “Namo Bhatéra namah Sivaya’’. The Sufasoma
says ‘God Buddha differs not from Siva the king of
coda."

In short, we discem under the religious elements
furnished by Mahayana Buddhism the ancient belief in a
deity enthroned upon a high mountain, to whom therefore
properly belongs the title of ‘Sailendra’ and who has been
successively identified with Siva Giriga and the supreme
Buddha. It is he, probably, that was represented at the
summit of Barabudur.* It is from him finally that the
Sailendravaméa derives its origin, and that ia why the Great
King (Maharija) has the same nature as the Great God
(Mahadeva). These traditions have persisted during the
centuries, In the Pararaton, king Krtanagara is described
aa Siva-Buddha and, according to the testimony of the
Nagarakrtagame. (43/5), he died in the Sivabuddhaloka.*

Uh

¥ +
It is known from diverse sources that the kings of the
Sailendra dynasty bore the title of Maharaja. This title

| Stutterheim, Tjandi Beraboedur, pp. 54-55.

2 Cf, N. J. Krom, Sarabudur, 11, p. 303. The facts which prove
the identification of Siva with the supreme Buddha have heen collected
by Mr. Himansn Bhuosnan Sorkar in a recent note in Indian Culture,
(Oct, 1934, pp. 284-286).

3 In my view the numerous authors who have writlen upon Bara:
budur have all exaggeraled the importance of the Buddhist element, while
neglecting the Sivaite and properly Indonesian beliefe.

4 Himansu Bhusan Serkar, Indian Cultere, Oct. 1934, p. 285.
THE SAILENDRAVAMSA 33

seems at first sight to be banal enough, but if we replace it
in hiatory, it carties a significance which the simple etymology
doea “not permit us to guess. Inscriptions of the Kusana
pertod contain three titles—mahdaraja, rajdtirdja and deva-
puira, Only the late Ara& inscription adds a fourth title,
which Prof. Liiders read as Raisara, and this reading which
is doubted by M. S, Lévi! is supported by M. 5S.
Konow. However, it is the title Maharaja which concems
us here and its reading js not doubtful.

"Professor Liiders,”"’ writes Sten Konow, "has drawn
attention to the fact that the titles used in the inscription
find a kind of commentary in the ancient notion about four
emperors, the ‘sons of heaven” of China, India, the Roman
Empire and the Yiie Chi. as they are styled in Chinese
translations of Buddhist works.” The tradition about the four
“sons of heaven’ has been examined by Professor Pelliot,
who showa that it was known over a'‘large area at an early
date. If it is of Indian origin, we should expect the arrange-
ment of the four kingdoms to be India, Iran, China and the
Roman Empire, and auch an arrangement is clearly reflected
in the titles of our inscription, where mahdradja is the Indian,
réjatirdja the lranian, devapuira the Chinese, and aisara
the Roman title."”

Thus in the insetiptions of the Kugana period mahdraja
has a particular value. It forms part of a series of three
or four titles which confers upon its possessor the impenal
dignity and probably the suzerainty over three or four
regions. Among these regions it seems that the south cor.
responds to the Maharaja. In assuming this title he perhaps
pretended to claim the imperial authority over the South.’

] JA., Vol, 224 (1934) p. 17,

2 Corpus Inacriptionum indicerum, Wol. Il, part [, p. 163. On the
notion of the four empires, ¢f. P. Pelliot in T’oung Pao, 1923, p. 97
and JJ. Przyluski, Le symbalisme du piiier de Sarnath, in Mélanges
Linossier, p, 495 ff.

3°) In the aceount of the Arab traveller Sulayman (tr, Ferrand). we
read that ‘*Kalah-bar forms part of the empire of Jawaga (i.e., the
empire of the Maharaja) which is situated to the south of India."

5
4 J. PRZYLUSKI

lt is the more interesting to notice that in an un-
fortunately obscure passage of the inscription of Ligor
(Face B), there is perhaps opposed to the Maharaja of
Sailendravaméa, a Visnuite king {because he is called Vignu)
who has the title of raj@dhirdjo corresponding, according to
the theory of Prof. Liiders, to the region of the West.

It seems that at the end of the first millennium the title
Maharaja still preserved the prestige which it enjoyed at the
time of the Yiie-Chi. At the beginning of the same era,
Maharaja seems to signify the sovereign of the southern
dvipa, that is of Jambu-dvipa. It is the same title which
the kings of the Sailendra dynasty have retaken; but without
doubt at this epoch there was added to the same a Sivaite
nuance. Maharaja in the world of men is what Mahadeva
ig in the world of gods, and it is because he traces his lineage
to Mahadeva, that the king is Maharaja. The relation of
these two notions can thus be made ‘to throw light on the
following passage of the inscription of Ligor rectified by
M. P. Mus and often quoted :—

‘Sailendravamsaprabha|ve] nigadatah Srimaharajanama’

We can now understand that the king bore the title of
Sri Maharaja, because he must have been invoked on account
of his divine origin. He was a king of the Sailendravamésa
and this is why he was addressed in the tone of a prayer
fnigada) and was called Sri Maharaja.!

In partially accounting for the use of the titles Sailendra
and Maharaja through a Sivaite influence, are we not
placing ourselves in contradiction to the historic data, which
prove the expansion of Mahayana Buddhism under these
kings? Certainly not: since from the beginning, Indonesian
Mah&yaniam is strongly tainted with Hinduism, as is proved
notably by the inscription of Kelurak, where it is said that
“Manjuvak contains all gods,—Brahma, Vignu and Mahe-
évara, A royal title could persist in spite of the changes

of religion. In the West the pagan title of Cesar has been
borne through the centuries by Christian kings, the German

] Cf. in the last place, G. Cardés, fJGIS., [, 2, p. 67,
THE SAILENDRAVAMSA 35

Kaiser and the Russian Czar. Besides it is known that
before the Mahayanist push of the 8th century, Sivaism was
planted in Java. The Janggal inscription (732 A.D) relating
to king Safijaya of Central Java records that the first Saiva
temple in Java was erected by a Brahman clan of the
Agastya gotra and that the model of thie temple was derived
from a Saiva temple in Kunjara Kunjadega, a sacred site in
Southern India on the banks of the Tungabhadra.*

Before the Mahayanist influence, whose origin must be
sought in Northern India and principally among the Palas of
Bengal, the great Indonesian islands knew a Sivaite period
marked by a close contact with Southern India, This
Sivaite influence has not left its traces only in the religious
domain. It must likewise have made itself felt also in the
social and political organisation. ‘"The intimate intercourse
between South India and Sumatra is indicated,"' says Dr. R.
C. Majumdar, “by some existing Sumatran clan-names, such
as Choliya. Pandiya, Meliyala, Pelawi, which may be easily
identifed with the Chola, Pandya, Malayalam, and
Pallava."’? Dr. R. C. Majumdar has justly abstained from
specifying at what epoch these South Indian names were
introduced into Sumatra. Nevertheless, the inscnption of
Janggal as well as the facts studied above makes us think
that the intercourse between South [ndia and Sumatra com-
menced from before the 8th century and that this intercourse
had for its result in the religious domain the propagation of
Sivaism and in the political domain the rise of the Sailendra
power.

APPENDIX

The preceding study permits the interpretation of a
passage from a Chinese text, which has embarassed its
interpreters, This passage is extracted from the notice
relating to the empire of San-fo-te'i in the Chu fan Chi of

| ©. C. Gangoly, The Art of Java, p. 4
2 JGIS., 1. 2, p. 9) and other references in the foot note.
36 J. PRZYLUSKI

Chau Ju-Kua written in 1226. (Cf. Chau Ju-Kua, His work
on the Chinese and Arab trade in the twelfth and thirteenth
ceniuries, entitled Chu-fan-tchi, tr. by F. Hirth and W. W.
Rockhill, 1912; P. Pelliot, T’oung Pao, t. XIll, 1912,
pp. 446-481; G. Ferrand, L'empire sumatranais de Srivijaya,
p. 10).

P. Pelliot translates thua:—"'There is a Buddha who is
called the Buddha of the Mountain of Gold and of Silver.
His statue is cast in gold. Each king, [just] before mounting
the throne, causes his [own] statue to be cast in gold to
replace that statue. Vases and plates of gold are made and
solemn homage is paid te that image. The golden statues,
the vases and plates, all of them bear inscriptions so that
the future generations may not destroy them.’

M. G. Ferrand interprets the same passages as
follows :— ‘There is [at San-fo-ts‘i] a [sort of] Buddha,
[that is to say, a statue] called ‘Mountain of gold and of
silver,” which is cast in gold.’

The context clearly indicates that that statue is that of
the king and changes with each reign. The use of the word
Buddha, which is applied to it in the Chinese text, might
be due to two reasons :—(a) “This statue was the object of
a cult analogous to what is rendered to the statue of Buddha;
{b) it was the statue of a king identified with Siva-Buddha.
The firat {fact emerges from the notice in Chu fan Chi itself,
the second from what | have said above.

The text can be explained thus:—'’There is an idol
which is called the idol of the mountain of gold and
silver,..........  Thig mountain could only be the cosmic
mountain or its representation because it is known that this
mythic mountain is made of precious metals. The custom
reported by Chau Ju-Kua can be explained in the light of
the ideas developed above. The emperor being identified
with the king of the gods must be enthroned on the cosmic
mountain: that is why his statue is placed at the top and
worship is paid to him in that place.

t G. Ferrand, L’Empire sumatranais de Srimjaya, p. 10. n. 3.
2 G. Ferrand, ibid., p. 10.
Migration of Indien decoretive motifs
By Devaprasad Ghosh.

(I) Caitya-window arch.

The romantic history of the typical Indian device
(Gavaksa), illustrates the amazing process of transformation
of a purely architectural motif into a decorative device of
elegant beauty and rhythmic grace, having in the end but
a remote resemblance with the original pattern. By constant
association with the early Indian Caitya-halis (both rock-cut
and structural), the horse-shoe openings have derived their
ordinarily accepted nomenclature as Caitya-windows. The
Lomas Rgi cave in the Barabar Hills, Bihar, offers the earliest
example of this type.) The original wooden prototype of
this ogee arch, lined with purlins, can be clearly made out
from this and later examples. From .the 3rd century B.C..,
to the [6th century A.D.for nearly two millenniume—the
unbroken development of this motif throughout India proper
is an indication of the wonderful unity and continuity of
Indian art.’

We may now enquire whether any simultaneous
development was going on in the neighbouring lands of
Campa, Cambodia and Java. In Indo-China itself, the
people of which revelled in the art of decoration, the utter
simplicity and stagnation of this everchanging Indian
omament, is indeed disappointing.” The Gavakgas of Indo-
China and early Java are unduly Aat, extremely broad and

| Coomaraswamy. A.K.—History of Indien and Indonesian Art, pl.
IX, 28.

2 This is weated in detail in my forthcoming work on ‘'Decorative
Art of Orissa.’

3 A very important article, relating to the later transformation of
this motif in Cambodia, “Concerning some Indian influences in Khmer
Art’ by Countess Coral-Rémusat appears in Indian Art & Letters, second
issue For 1933. pp. 110-21
36 DEVAPRASAD GHOSH

monotenously plain without bead-mouldings, side wings and
Kirttimukha finials. A welcome variety is sought to be
created by breaking the inner line into double curyes in
Tjandi Bhima. It is difficult to trace any window pattern
in the stupendous Boro-Budur at a superficial glance.
However, a closer scrutiny will reveal that the miniature
decorative ormaments embellishing the parapets of each
tier, are nothing but the full-Redged Indian device, com-
pletely resolved into scrolls.’ ts various elements which
are clearly perceptible, resemble the ornament from the
temple of Sobhalde at Saladdapur, Jaipur, to a surprising
extent.

But the ingenuity of the Javanese craftsmen lies in
skilfully converting the Gavakges into magnificent Toranes.
The portals and niches of Central Java monuments, e.g.,
Tjandi Kalasan and Boro-Budur, are crowned by fantastic
Kirttimukhas and richly. wrought jamb “carvings. which
descending from their mouths end in graceful sweeping
Makara spouts (fig. 2).

"The very Kala-Makora ornament” says Dr. Vogel.
“though undoubtedly derived from Indian Art is the outcome
of an indigenous combination and development............both
the decorative device and the gateway which it adorns are
not Indian but Indo-Javanese and the same may be said
with regard to the monument to which they belong.” We,
however, contend that of the so-called Kala-Mekara motif,
not only the elements, but the whole design itself, is purely
Indian. In our opinion the peculiar combination of the Kala
and Makara motifs was not evolved by the indigenous
followers of the Indian master-builders of Java, but was
known to Indian art long before.. In the centunes imme.
diately following the Christian era, floral devices are noticed
to issue out of the distended jaws of the gaping Makaras in
the Bharhut, Sanci and early Amaravati art. Even as early

1 Krem—Hindoe-Jawaansche Kunal, Wol, tll, pl. 29.
Z Wogel—“‘The Relation betwcen the Ari of India and Java,“
infitencer of Indion Art, London, 1925, p. 62.
caatd

ey
G =
Fig, 1. Cattyawindow, Bhaynnesrara, Fig. 2. Caitya-arch,
Orissa. Tndin, Central Java.

Vig. 3. Caitye-arch, T'ang dynasty, Vig, 4. Cuitye-arch, Yuan dynasty,
China. China,

Sketehes by D. P. @.
JGLS., Vol. Ll, No. 1, 1986.
MIGRATION OF INDIAN DECORATIVE MOTIFS 39

as the Ist century B.C., Makaras are placed at the springing
of the semi-circular arch-bands in the Ganesa Gumphia, Rani
Gumpha and Jaya-Vijaya caves on the Udayagiri Hill in
Orissa,’ Arch-bands are also frequently made to start from
Makara mouths in the interior side walls of the aisles of
Cave XXVI at Ajanta.” The representation of the Makaras
and Kirtlimukha head at the springing and crown, res-
pectively, on the fasade of the 5th century monument (Cave
No. XUX) at Ajanta is well known. Moreover, the entire
window device seems to flow out of the grinning head of the
Kirttimukha (fig. |) with the usual Makara spouts projecting
outwards from each side in the Vaital Deul temple in
Bhuvanegvara {c. 8th century A.D.).°. To crown all, the
beautiful Torana in front of the Mukteévara temple, Bhuva-
neévara (c. 950 A.D.) is. decorated with two exquisitely
carved Makara heads, which project boldly outwards from the
apringing of the arch.‘ Similarly, the tre-foiled arches, form-
ing the background of the Parsva Devatéa of the Lingaraja
temple, Bhuvanegvara, are capped by a Kirtitimukha accom-
panied with Makara projecting spouts at the ueual place.

In the face of these facts, it is difficult for us to accept
the theory of Dr. Vogel that it was left to the indigenous
artists of Java to combine the Kiritimukha and the Mahara
ito an organic motif, On the contrary, it is our strong
conviction that the combincd motif, represented by the
Caitya-window niches, migrated to Java from Orissa itself,
Recent researches tend to show a close dynastic connection
between Kalinga and Indonesia. In fact, Dr. Ccedas has
lately accepted the view of myself and Dr. R, C, Majumdar
that the Sailendras of Srivijaya originated from the Sailod.
bhavas of Orissa.’

| Fergueson & Burgess—Cave Temples a India, pl. |.

2 Havell E.B..—Ancient and Mediaeval Architecture of india, pl. 46,

3 Banerji, R.D..—History of Orissa, Calcutta, 193], Vol, I, pl.
Facing p. 346,

4 fbid., pl. facing p, 24.

2 (a) Cordds, G.-On the Origin of the Sailendres of Indonesia,
IGiS., Vol. 1, Ne, 2,
46 DEVAPRASAD GHOSH

Leaving aside for the moment Indonesia, where the
recurrence of this favourite Indian decorative formula js not
surprising, let us turn to the north to explore traces-of its
overland migration, Is it accidental that in China itself the
Caitya-arch motif is strongly recalled by the flat ogee arches
supported by two polygonal pilasters ending in Jotus capi-
tals, at the entrance and inside the caves of Lung Shan in
Shansi?' By strange coincidence, also, the pairs of phoenix
birds or dragons at the springing of the arches are curiously
reminiscent of their Indian prototypes, the Harnsa and the
Makara respectively, As we shall see presently, this complex
design, re-appeared in the art of the Yuan dynasty (fig. 4). A
sunplified form of the arch is to be found over door-ways of
the T’ang period in Chili,’ having a close affinity with early
Mathura types (fig. 3).78 «

Turning from the Far East to the Near East, our attention
is arrested by the presence of some curiously shaped ancient
monolithic tombs in Lycia in south-western Asia Minor,
among a series decidedly Hellenistic in  character.*
Archeologists have long wondered as to their origin. How-
ever, the single rectangular cellas surmounted by barrel
vaulted roofs, immediately recall to the mind some of the
monolithic Rethas at Mamallapuram* and the structural
Caitya-halla at Ter and Chezarla.’ ts it possible that the
arched gables of the sacrophagus tombs at Telmessus in
Lycia, fringed with purlina, were inspired by Indian pro-
totypes? Jt must be admitted that the Indian feeling has

(b) Ghosh. D.P.,—Relation between Buddha imegesa of Orissa and
Java, Medern Review, Calcutta, Nov. 1933.
(c) Majumdar, R. ©.—Lea Rots Sailendra de Suvarnadvipa,
BEFEG,, & XXXII, faac. I, p. 141,
) Siren, O.,—Chineson Sculpture, London. 1925, pls, 207, 208, cte.
2 fbid., ple, 535, 536.
Za Coomaraswamy, Early Indian Architecture, Eastern Art, Vol. 111,
figa, 43, 66.
3 Keene, J. C.—The Lycian Cities of the Xanthue River Valley,
Art and Archaeology, Washingion, May-Junc. 1934, figs. 3, 4 and II.
4 Havell—Op, cit, pl. XIV.
§ Coomaraswamy—H.ILLA., pl. XOOXV, 147.
MIGRATION OF INDIAN DECORATIVE MOTIFS 4|

been emphasized by the introduction of a horned bull's head
as the finial of such arch on the facade of a iock-out tomb
at Pinara, strikingly resembling the Caitya-window arch with
its horned Kirttimukha finial (fig. 5.).

2. KIRTTIMUKHA

The Kirttimukha or the “'glorious face’ is another typi-
cal decorative symbol which penetrated all the Jands where
Indian art and culture travelled or left its impress. It is a
fantastic lion face with spiralic horns, terrible’ goggle eyes,
curling whiskers and a hideons grimace ejecting flames.
As an auspicious symbol and protecting agent it always
crowns the Caitya-arches in architecture, decorative niches
in sculpture and Prabhd-toranas of the images, besides filling
some minor offices in early mediazval India.

It received a fresh and vigorous lease of life in the
colonies. Some of the earliest specimens in Ceylon, have
been referred to in detail by Mr. O. C. Gangoly.? In
medizval Simhalese art, the full face detached of a Simha,
called Kibhi-muna, ‘is most often seen in Makara-iorana,
where it forms the central feature in the position of
the keystone of the arch; and it is used in design as the
starting-point of the sprays and branches of feliacious orna-
ment.’ The row of ogre-heads disgorging chaplets of
pearls, is the chief decorative element of most of the pagodas
and temples of Burma from the I Ith to the 13th century A.D.,
e.g., Seinnyet, Mahabodhi, Nanpaya, Dammayazaka,
Gawadawpalin and Tilominlo—all at Pagan. AJthough in
comparatively low relief and charactcrized by broad and
stunted features, the earlier specimens are full of round
and flowing lines. But the later reproductions. employed
on the piers inside the Nanpaya temple, Myinpagan, are
noted for the extremely Aloriated forms in low relief. The
ornate character of the device is further augmented by the

1} Gangely—"'A note on Kiritimukha; being the life history of on
fadian architectural ornament.” Rapam, January, 1920, pp. 12-13.
Z Coomaraswamy—Mediaeval Simhalese Art, p. 86, fig. 23.
42 DEVAPRASAD GHOSH

elongated and dangling ornamental foliages, inside the
loops of pearl festoons.’ “Even in its conventionalised
form as illustrated in the decoration of the Nanpaya temple
(Fig, 17), it offers variations which cannot be said to be
derived from successive copying of the patterns of India
proper. So that, the examples of thie decorative device met
with outside India cannot be said to be derived by a direct
line of descent from the patterna of the main land.""? We
do not concur with this opinion. For so far as the design of the
Nanpaya temple is concemed (fig. 7), it is more than obvious
that this particular combination was derived from Orissan
monuments across the Bay of Bengal (fig. 6}.2> However, the
most astonishing factor in Burmese architecture is, that inspite
af the universal application of the Makara-Torana, the Kirtti-
mukhe is strongly absent from. its traditional place at the
top. Still we can discern from the images of Buddha, that
in the domain of sculpture proper. it could not be dislodged
from its hallowed position on the finial of the Prabha-
Torana.*

Next it is easy to detect strongly marked South Indian
influences in the ©’ glory face’’ depicted on a stone fragment
from Prapatom in Siam.* ‘Its representation in the Cham
monuments, however, is extremely scarce, although it can
be recognised in a highly stylized form, composed of inco-
herent spirals, on the pedestal supporting a sitting Siva, from
the grand temple of Dong-doung.® This is almost similar to
the types illustrated on some rectangular panels on the
pedestals supporting figure sculpture in the Jagamohana of
the Surya temple at Konadrak, It is more common in

1 Ferguason—ttietory of fudian and Easicrn Architecture, Vol. IL,
pl. XXXY.,

2 Gangoly—Op, cil, p. 18.

3 Cohn, W..—Indische Plastik, pl. 65.

4 Duroiselle—Excavation ot Hmawza, Prome, ASIAR,, 19tL12, pl.
LA WHI, >.

5 Salmony—Sculpiure in Siam, pl. 4, a.

6 Parmenticr—Les Sculptures Chames, Are Asiatica, Vol. VI, pl.

XAVIIL
Fig. 6. Airttimukia, Konarak, Fig, 7, Atritimukha, Pagan,
lndia, Burma,

Fig. 8. Afettimukéa, Lune-Men, China,

Sketches by D. BP. a.

4.6.1,.8., Vol. H, No. I, 935.
MIGRATION OF INDIAN DECORATIVE MOTIFS 43

Cambodia, in the pre-Khmer and classical epochs alike.
Elegantly chiselled broad and stunted faces, defined by
graceful rhythmical curves, emitting festoons and surrounded
by floral devices, decorate the mouldings of the Sambor-
Preikuk group of the pre-Khmer period.' The classical
examples, however, are different in character and more
conventional. They are often noticed, on the door lintels in
the centre of a rambling luxuriant foliage starting, as usual,
from its gaping mouth. The head. unlike the Indian pro-
totype, is circumscribed by a sharp tre-foil outline, while the
jaw set with pointed bristling fangs describes a shallow
curve. Little ornamental horns srow from above the eyes.”
But, it ig not until] we reach Java, that the "glory face’’
ig found to reach the climax of its glory and “'the zenith of
its artistic sensibility.” The Kirtlimukha (Kala or Banaspati
of the Dutch archeologists) is the ornament “‘per excellence
of Java, where it assumes a majestic form and a definite
architectonic character.’ As an indispensible adjunct for the
upper part of niches and arches it gradually develops into the
arch itself, in which "the head forms the keystone and the hwo
radiating necks terminating im ‘makaras’ constitute the two
abutments (fig. 2), The most typical example of this novel
use is here borrowed from Tjandi Kali Bening, near Kalasan
vceeelt is not until its purely decorative and artistic
feature, with all the exuberance of legendary or fanciful
suggestion, combines with its structural or constructive
function, that the Kirtiimukha realises the supreme crowning
moment of its life and may be said to have attained the apex
of its career.””? Dr, Stutterheim in a searching article has
recently tried to explain the origin, composition and under-
lying symbolism of this so called “Kdla-Makara’’ ornament,
froma novel and interesting angle.”"* A critical analysis will

1 Parmentier—L’ Art Khmér Primitif, pl, XVI.

2 Aris et Archacologie Khmers, !, face, 3, 1926, pl. 32 GB.

3 Gangoly—Op, cii., p. 18, fig. 30,

4 Stutterheim—The Meaning cf the Kala-Makara armament. Indian
Art and Letters, Vol, [. 1929, pp. 27.52.
44 DEVAPRASAD GHOSH

reveal that the gigantic central Javanese Kirttimukha pieces
are greatly elongated horizontally. The ormamental folds
over the oblique eyes are reminiscent of Calukyan types; but
the tusks curve inwardly and the Makara pairs are translated
into Sdrdulas, emerging from the corner of the jaws, Fran-
tastic horns, curly manes are denoted by fiery ornamental
scholls, growing upwards in fluttering agitation—the most
striking element in the composition.’ The upward urge of the
vibrating epirals is admirably balanced by the broad sweep
of undulating curve determining the distended jaw, Though
elaborately treated, the superb modelling and ample breadth
of composition are complemented by symmetrically dis-
posed elegant and spreading curves. The Aadla head, from
Candi Singa-sari, however, is more severely treated, Ik is
less elaborate, more round in shape and notably gains in
relief and volume. [t appears to have a greater resemblance
than anything else, with the archaic “‘glory face’’ of the
Sarnath Gupta lintel.”

Regarding the 'Tao-tieh’’ form of the early Chinese
bronzes, Mr, Gangoly has already pointed out that ‘‘it has
more than an accidental resemblance to the Kirttimukha both
in its fundamental outline and its conventional representa-
tion in which the features of the original “lon face’ have
been skilfully dissembled.”” Further investigation has
enabled us to discover a series of typical Indian Kiriti-
mukhas in Chinese art beginning from the 5th century A.D,
This tangible evidence of Indian influence in the monuments
of China, ja a matter of no surprize, when we remember the
brisk political and religious intercourse which commenced
from the close of the 4th century between the two neigh-
Louring lands,

The first instance of the crude lion masks in Chinese art
can be traced in the round-eyed and tnaked monsters which

1 Krom—t.’ Att jJavanais, Ars Asiatica, Vol. VII, pl. I.

2 The survival of the Kiritimukha molif in Polynesian has been
pointed out by Dr. Panchanan Mitra in an article on Indian and Poly-
nesian att in fournal of the Indian Society of Orienth! Art, Dec., 1933,
p. I.
MIGRATION OF INDIAN DECORATIVE MOTIFS 45

are employed to fasten the curtain framing the niche con-
taining the Buddha image in Cave XXVI at Yun-Kang.'’ By
the early part of the 6th century, the Chinese sculptor had
thoroughly mastered the significant form of the Indian “glory
face’’ as distinguished from the indigenous ''Tao-tieh.’" In
the decorative scheme of the Grotto of the Kuyangtung at
Lungmen, the prominent features of the Kirtlimukha are
portrayed in varying degrees of low relief. All the peculiar
elements of a typical Gupta prototype*® are present in the
fying locks of hair, goggle eyes, omamental horns and the
terrible array of fangs Ranked by a pair of small tusks (fig. 8.).
The unequivocal testimony of its Indian origin is furnished by
the traditional festoons of pearls (here twisted}, interspersed
with ornamental buckles, which dangle from the grinning
mouths and intersect one another.* That this typically [Indian
device did not meet with a premature end on the Chinese
soil, is amply borne out by a votive stele from Shansi of the
T'ang period, containing a niche of Sakyamuni Buddha,
surmounted by symmetrically disposed tasseled pearl
garlands issuing from a boldly carved ‘‘lion-face."’*

lt might be mentioned in this connection that Koop in
his compendious volume on "The Early Chinese Bronzes”
has all along characterised the ““Tao-tich"’ designs of the
vessels of the First, Second and Han (or the Third) style-
periods, as the ogre or monsier masks, while the ornamental
forms appearing in the Tang (or the Fourth) style period, are
distinguished as ‘‘Ifon-masks.’"> Thus he indirectly supports
our assumption, that the fantastic decorative emblems, asso-
ciated with the Buddhist remains only, are lineally descended
from an extra-Chinese prototype, instead of thc typically
indigenous pattern. Further we find that festoons emanat-
ing from lion-heads, continued to be represented in Buddhist
sculptures of the Sung period. But we are really amazed

Siren—Up. cti., pl. 62.

Cohn—indische Plastik, pl. 24, (Deogarh temple).
Siren—Op., cit., pl. 80.

ibid., pl. 509,

Koop—Larly Chinese Bronzes, pl. 96.

wo lo Ro
46 DEVAPRASAD GHOSH

when we unexpectedly come across the combined Makara-
Kirttimukha design, in its Chinese version, in the Lung Hu ta
pagoda at Sen T’ung asee, constructed as late as the “Yuan
dynasty. The deorways of the square cella, are crowned
with characteristic ogee arches, decorated nt the finials by
boldly projecting Kiritimukha heads and terminating in
awful enormous gaping Makaras in highly stylized forms.’
They also enclose within, their sweep other figure sculptures
of exuberant richness, recalling the inevitable components of
the Caitya-window arches of Indian and Indonesian art (fig. 4.).
It speaks not a little for the remarkable vitality and aggres-
siveness of the Indian motifs, that they could penetrate into
and thrive on the Land of Pagodas, at the expense of the
mighty all-pervading Dragon and the Phoenix bird.’

| Siren—Op, cit, Vol. lit, pl. 617. ,

Z For the migration of the Makara motif to.Greater India and
China see my atticle “Makara in indian Art” in Caleutia Review, October,
1930 of "De Makara In De Indische Kanst," Djawa, 10 Jaargang No. 6,
Einde 1930, pp. 191-196.
A Sanskrit Traatise by a Tibetan Author
By Pandit Vidhushekhara Bhattacharya.

There are hundreds, nay thousands, of books translated
from Sanskrit into Tibetan by Indians and Tibetans jointly,
but so far no work was found that is rendered into Sanskrit
from an original Tibetan by an author who himself ia a
Tibetan. But thanks to Baron A. von Staél-Holstein, our
Sanskritists and specially those of India, the land of Sanskrit,
will feel extremely glad to know that he has brought out
such a text in the Bulletin of the National Library of Peiping,

Peiping, 1932, on which the following few linea are
based.

lt ia a booklet and is reproduced in the Journal referred
to above by the Baron from seventeen plates of a xylograph.
Each folio contains in the following. order :

1. The Sanskrit version in the old Indian seript.

2. The transliteration of the aame in the Tibetan
character.

3. The original Tibetan text.
4. The Mongolian version of the Tibctan text.

5. The Chinese translation of the text inscribed on the
lower margin of Staé]l-Holstein’s copy by one Mr. Ku

Hua Fu.

The original Tibetan text, aa the colophon shows, ia the
composition of Dam pa {or Uttama in Sanskrit), And the
Sanskrit translation seems alao to have been made by him.
In the Sanskrit colophon the author's name is Uttala inatead
of Uttama. This may be due to a mistake of the maker
of the xylograph. The epithet of the name of the author in
both the colophens, Tibetan and Sanskrit, appears to have
48 VIDHUSHEKHARA BHATTACHARYA

the same sense, the former reading tha bris (=deva-ciira-
kara) and the latter citrakera.

The name of the text is Bla mahi rnal hbyor or Guruyoga
in Sanskrit’ It is also described in the author's own words
as Guru-upacérakrama and called Tusitaraja,'

It deals with the method ef worship well-known in
Mahayana Buddhism, taking refuge (Saranagamana), the
production of the thought of enlightenment (bodhicittotpdda),
the contemplation of the infinite, i, e.. four apramdnas or
brahmavihaéras: maitri, Raruna, mudita and upeksda, the
invitation of the ksetra (ksctrakargana), ete,

Sanskritists and specially those of India will naturally feel
curious to know how a Tibetan Pandit writes Sanskrit.
In order to satisfy their curiosity the Sanskrit portion only
of the booklet is reproduced below as itisin the xylograph
with no emendation whatsoever though this is absolutely
necessary for understanding the meaning. We have
however added foot-notes to help the reader to catch the
exact meanings of the Sanskrit words. For the sake of
elucidation their Tibetan equivalents have also been quoted
where necessary, |

The author is a Buddhist, and readers will find that
his Sanskrit is in no way better than whatis known as
Buddhist Sanskrit. Sometimes it is even worse. lt is full
of mistakes from beginning to end. The Sanskrit
knowledge of the author is so poor that he cannot
often write Sanskrit words correctly. In this respeet he
may be compared with Chinese Sanskritists, Li Yen and
Yi-tsing, authors of the Sanskrit-Chinese dictionaries Pan yu
isa ming and Fan yu ts’ien tsen wen respectively.’

| The actual reading is fugitaraja nama not iugite®. Tib. would
however read ftugitedevaraja (dgah Idan tha rgyel me).

2 See Probedh Chandra Bagchi: Deux Lexiquea Sanskrit—Chinois.
Sino-Indica, Publications de |’Univeraité de Caleutta, Tome TE.
A SANSKRIT TREATISE BY A TIBETAN AUTHOR 45

Sanskrit Text
[le] geata fase: 2
[Ha] Aart tersnerra | sey hater e-TEATTRA |
[lib} ofefafaa? gear dserrnfa i est seta a? gan: acafa:
faait:’ [Illa] waa’ (1) geval we sean garg! gar maT
arate i! eT |
Te red reat! Teegha!? j
aeaifaacar® reat!) treefe
aa ethafa a areal!) meafa I?
[Va] paanerce seat’! weg 1"
efa faaen

fgea aifisfrageares i'*
aan TH q TOT arg .
[IVb] waa arf & area!’ mea 7"

Fa BRANT
Satay aearat feet iP?

1 “ga vijohdra (bzugs). 2 Pkirti®. 3° tat (gsum).
4 Tib, transliteration wrongly reads vasdunih which pives na caning;

Tib. dios gti meaning simply vastu.

Visargah? Inthe sense ¥ avasana, paseat (mjug).

kramena.

ulpadana. Tib, simply semsz, citla, evidently for cittalpadana.,

For apramana, Tib. ishod med, four brahmavihasas.

9 trayz; but Tib. construction would have traya! {gsum as).

10 Pratharna garanga®: for prathama, Tib. dav pa.

fo “=! ga wa

Il éaranam. 12 gacchami.

13 sativan. i omaiy.

15 “iriodra kta. 16 bedhicitigt®,

17 *itama™. 18 yavai, 19 gasauarp,

20 gacchami,

21 Tib. trends: beag gi sbyin aoge pa gyis pa fdi dag gis which sug-
gesta! mama danapramukhena anena.

22 For this Tib. has: Agro la phan phyis sans rgyos hgrab par éag
sugeesting jagalo Aligya buddhah siddhantu.

7
50 VIDHUSHEKHARA BHATTACHARYA

[Va] siete sara |
arnt ante a atey?
wmifadt aged F yaad
a gefeat aay gerg 1°
[Vb) aaitrascita’ sfeerg |
acafa wiry’ Gemenq:' aarpera:’ fafarea:!* seit wafer
[Vla] Set era! Serrerrapey v2
afaet caaes arerey
erage wee aula aerated!
[Vib] aauz aay wafafata’ at:
ate a gfe’ ggreq ATary

) értiya apamana-bhavanam ca; Tib. gatm pe lead med bsgom pa ni,

2 Tib. Agro kun ji ilar bde bas kbyor gyur cig meaning sared gafik
(i.e., the six kinds of living beings in different:planes, such as gods,
demons, men, beasts, ghosts and hell-beings) yathdsukhena yujyatam.

3 What gama means is not known to me, nor docs the Tib. version
give any help. Hete okhila somduskha is for akhila samduskhdd and
pramocaniu for pramacyalam according to Tib, which reads: adag bsnl
ma Tus pa las thar gyur cig.

4 Tib. gnod med, lit. ‘not evil, misfortune, or harm’ {apakara,
badha, anartha). The author seems to have used dusfanti in the impeta-
tive mood as in the proceding sentences. -

5 Tib, bde be rgyas pahi dros gyur cig, lit. vipulasukthavantu
bhavaniz. But the author seems to have meant in Sanskiit sukhena
pusyania,

6 Read upeksa for upeksa, Tib. biohsrioms pa fa the Sanskrit
equivalent of which is upeksayam,

7 bh@pesu for bhagegu, The author appeaia to soy vastuni bhdge in
ease of apposition, ‘in the division of the main subject (vastu}, Tib, has
simply vastuni (dros, bzi fa),

8 "kargenam. 9 °daya.

10 "prafnah, Tih. zu ba.

I] prathema, Tib, den po. 12 ksetra karga’,

13 fuaflard . 14 pandara ,

15 jaladhisekharam. For panda" degaram Tib. has rab dkar zo ganr
spuns Adrahi chu fdzin risher which suggesla: navapandaradadhi-
ragim iva jaladharasikhdram 1& “kirie’.

17 putrasahita, Tib. sras dah beas pa.

18 ihe sthan ®yania, Tih. gnas Adir géegs gaol. The Skt. translator
scems to have taken stham for stha@m meant for sthanam.
A SANSKRIT TREATISE BY A TIBETAN AUTHOR 5]

fat aon! mara free 1?
[Vila] @fray qatey feerearatel
crea’ arefteeareere® We: |
[1] avatteeres griafari®
[Vib] eraagary’ arrest farera iI
farita aeqara
wacaarata:? fagatataa:
JVilla] sarceparter gear feat ar? 1
(1) fafa ete far eferearera
arf aA afreg" arte 118
[VIIb) weft corr |
arabe fern fengeg 2
aa aq! a watq antes |

1 dvitiye aapia,

2 prathama sthana, Tib. brian Jaga.

3 Tib, mdun gyi nam mkhar sea Rhri bar zlahi ate; according to it
the Sanakrit would have been agrakase simhiaanendapari, Evidently
here druhga "having sat’ ia left out.

4 lt is wrongly for Tib. dgyia pa, Skt. santagta(h),

5 Evidently fasita ia wrongly for smita ‘smile’, Tib, hdzum, or site
‘white’, Tib, dkar, the Tib, phinse reading hdzum dkar can, Ske.
acailaamita,

6 [els for bhaflarakeh, Tib. ije blown. Cf. the word bharafaka, a
particular elasa of mendicants.

7 For mama, Tih, &dag i,

§ Far ponydgre’, Tib. bsod nama fiA mehog tu.

3 “neposaye, Tib, rgyas pahi phyir.

19 For this Tib. would cuggest jieydbhogaval reading fea byahi
khyan Htar,

1] For singular number.

12 Tih, shal bzai rna bohi bregen gyur legs béad gsun whieh sug:
geats subhagakanaiankdabhitanbhisitavsk, Na further note js required
here, 13 kiriti®.

14 Aamami, 15 “arnyti®, 16 “sampannem.,

I? manoramarghadinanavidhapuspam, Tib, yid hon mehed yon
ana chogs me log.

18 surabhi (ar scurabhi} dhiipa, Tib. dri Zin bdug apes.
52 VIDHUSHEKHARA BHATTACHARYA

[IXa} saca'fafae? ef gare

wares weal care wate 6
aat® Sera |

afe’ ga: eet" grep”

arfz?? array! aAyaY [1]

tq? a! darafaneag

[Xa] etargata! ofateafat'*
qaat AlAs |

arpa aguegaina

TOTAAL |

[Xb] Gea ace’ wa aeraa’*

meat et cantearfa i
wet seqa’ | [Xia]

ag 8 gob’ osnivafora?

ga erraead?? ae aA 1
wary awaits eA* [XIb]
fagin® aqdanradarat 2!

| projfapti’, 2 “nirmitam.
3 For megha Tib. hos samudra (rgya meho).

4° For the vocative case.

5 Fer pajam dadimi, Tib. mehod hbul. Tib, here adds te ‘to you’

thhyed fa).

6 caturtham. 7 According to Tib. gat (gan Zig).
8 kale, 9 “fad ca,
10 In the sense of anadi, Tib. thog med,
Ul For °vatimandm (=kdyevanmanosim), Tib. lus nag yid kyl. See

foot-note 4 of p. 54, For visesa", Tib, kigad,
13) tri’, Tib, gsum. 14 “tapena, 15 “degaydmi,
16 khasayakate. i? “sampanne,

18 Tib. rlabs chen mdzad pa fa which suggests mahormikasyam,

19 ‘Tib, baka! ba “request {3y.

20 «Tib. yusmakam (khyed rnams ky}, 21) nabhaksannibha.

22 “dayevanta for “daydeat, Tib, brtsc,

23) Tib. fi Har hishom pahi gdul byoli hdzin ma fa meaning yatha-
nurapaolneyadharayam.-

24 For nirdébhoga of anabhoga, Tib. thun grub,

25 For cokra* Tib. chad pa dbab gaol which is quite different.
A SANSKRIT TREATISE BY A TIBETAN AUTHOR 53

acadt Ata

aa Sf? aaagaeag [XIla]
graft aay Beta ae |
farraari gafa atftea
gram? afer fcenrag 1

[XIlb] fadta’ fafareasa waft orterfren fx) care’
@| ce naread fir"! (Xia) aca: afeaterer'? aaa fate
areata’? uy Garerea'* |

SATEIET afore
[XIIb] aReRres gq TET I

foad agen’? ystet!* aheq

enfahataes ag erenfa'? i

[XIVa] gfal

fit ai ag? ada gua gata a! sani? a
ayfaerm aa [XIVb] faute frat fret aera) gees:
ea Ara aa at Tagueaita, [XVa] faa fal

TaTA a |
1 namand ca. Here némend is parindmanad ar penyaparindmana,
2 kivat, Tib, ji ared. 3 dasa in the sense of dasana, Tib, Baten,
4 suhita, Tib, phen which means simply hite.
§ sasana”, & Tib. clearly uses cira as adverb (rin du},
7 trfya, 8 praanad ca. 9 prathamam,
10 Far gathayah, lf irivaparp. 12 “dhyatma.
13 Tib, yad par hgrel io.

\4

syad yatha may be far sa yathd os in Brahmans, or for syad*.

Tib. lit. suggests tad® (de ji Iftar).

15 Here avalaki is far avalokita.

l@ The authar wants ta express by it amealajfidnendra.

17. Tib. garis can mkhas pahi which suggests Aimavat-pais, The Tib.
transliteration is vatu far valu.

18 For caidilankdra. 19 For adhyesayami,

20 ayuh, Tib. tshe. 21 For tri {trtiyam).

22 prathamam.

°3 Tib, transliterntian reada “siha” fay “ska”. Tib. tranalatian dacs
not help. 24 *bhaparindmana,

25 prathamam.
54 VIDHUSHEKHARA BHATTACHARYA

tar] 78 TAT AT WA
war wie gered oferaer: |
MEM? AGIA At
reread fafa, ara aes, Fret
fetta 3) fg saa aaarfagscarta’ fren: |
eter Taya
[XVla] aeaft aeag Gea gear
faciea’ stapatieteraniiren: 1
ea afar ieatrad
Wea wat ertea A ati?
[XVIb] afta zaena faxeto: desea od vanfea
waaay? eed ay! ears: |
[XVila] i qedhn: qf atte fare en 0

| Tib, bdg gi, in Skt. mama,

Z Here m is unnecessarily inserted.

3 Unnecessarily lengthened. See [oat-note 11 of p. 52,

4 This vadmam is undoubtedly [or ean-manas (Tib, vsah flings),
5 “jrapani. 6 ityadi.

? Evidently the author wanted to say avirahita, Tib. hbral med}.

8 méarga. 9 In the sence of teariterm.
0

viagindra[tva}m. 1] For ahem.
An Old-Javanese Inscription from
Penamplhan of the Saka year 1191
By Himansu Bhushan Sarkar, M.A,

This Kawi-inscription is incised on seven copper-plates
which were found in the mountain range of Wilis, now
forming a part of Pénampihan of the Tulung-agung division
in the residency of Kedin. Dr. Brandes wrote a short notice
of this record in the Notulen for 1898, p. 78if.' In his
opinion it refers to the complaint of a certain person of
Wisaya punpunan sang hyang sarwwadharmma, i.c., as he
translates, the subordinate region of St. Sarwwadharmma in
respect of its claim for separation from the people of Thani-
bala. This separation had already been sanctioned by H.
M. the late King Vignuvardhana but the order seems to have
been neglected. Jt appears from the above description that
Dr. Brandes took Sarwwadharmma-and Thanibala to be
place-names. ‘This interpretation is not accepted by Dr.
Poerbatjaraka” who finds here an allusion to a_ tussle
between what we should now call ‘the power temporal’ and
‘the power spiritual.’ Whatever that may be. the record
under review throws some light on the political history of
contemporary Java and mentions some high functionaries of
state whom we also notice in the Nagarakridgama andthe
Pararaton. Thus King Krtanagara who was consecrated to
rule with his father in 1254 A. D. and ruled alone from 1268
A. D. is described here as ruling over the whole of the island
of Java, Particular mention is made of his suzerainty over
Janggala and Pangjalu. Three principal ministers are
mentioned and among other high functionaries of state the

| Since then it has been briefly noticed several times, e-g., in Rapp.,
IStE, p. 120; Krom, Geschiedenis I, p. 323 f., ete.
Z Vide BRI, 80, pp. 225-227.
56 HIMANSU BHUSHAN SARKAR

three fore-moat are the rakryan (m)apatih, rakryan Dmung
and rekryan kanuruhan, This rakryan (miapatih or
commander-in-chief is Kbo Aréma and he is probably
identical with Raganatha of the Pararaton. Besides these
and other political data the inscription yields some informa-
tion regarding the organisation of religious establishments.
lt is interesting to note that some of the most important
personalities of this inscription are also met with in other
records of contemporary Java! The record ends in dog
Sanskrit and this is interspersed with some Old Javanese
words.

The record has been transcribed in Brandes-Krom,
Oudjavaansche Oorkonden, where it bears the /9th number.
lnow edit the text from this transcription and add a transla-
tion of my own with proper diacritical marks.

TEXT.

| b. 1. swasti Sri Sakawargatita, i Saka 1191, Karttikamasa
tithi paficami Su
2. klapaksa, wa, ka, wr, wara langkir, uttarasadha
naksatra, wiswade
3. wata, ganda yoga, wairijya muhirtta, barunapar-
wweéa, walawa karana,
4. mrcchika radi, irika diwadanyajia Sri Sakalajagatna-
theéa, ndrasinghamirttyani
5. nditaparakrama, aSegarajanyacudamaninarpitabha-
ranarawinda, Sokasantapi
6. tasujanahrdayambujawawodhanaswabhawa sri
Kytanagaranamabhiseka, tinadah de rakrya
7, nmahamanti katrini rakryan mantri hino, rakryan
mantri sirikan, rakryan mantri halu, umingsor i
paratanda
Za. |. rakryan ri pakirakiran makabehan rakryan apatih
makasikasir kbo ar$ma, rakryan dmung

1 Cf. Bijlage A in BKi., %, list facing p. 258.
AN OLD-JAVANESE INSCRIPTION 57

mapaiiji wipakga, rakryan kanuruhan mapafjyanu-
tida, makadi sang mantri wagmima

ya, paranitijiia, nigantaramadhuranathanukulaka-
rana, mapasénggahan sang rama

pati, tan kawuntat aang pamgat i tirwan dang
Acaryya dharmmadewa, sang pamgét ing kanda-
muhi

dang acaryya smaradahana, sang pamggt i
manghuri dang acaryya smaradewa, sang pamgét
ing jamba dang i

caryya Siwanatha, sang pamegét ing pafjang jiwa
dang Acaryyagraja, mpungku dharmmadhyaksa
ri kage

wan dang acaryya Siwanatha, mapafijitanutama, i
pingsornyajfia éri maharaja ku

monakén . “ng kabuyutan ri
lokeSwara, tkeng wisaya punpunan sang hyang-
sarwwadharmma, parhyangan, itye-

wamadi, padamla
kna sang hyang rajapragasti macihna krtanagara
kapangkwani wigaya punpunan | sang
hyang sa
twwadharmma magthakna pangraksa érf maharaja
ri kaswatantran sang hyang sarwwadharmma,
sambandha mpu
ngku dharmmadhyaksa mapaiiji tanutama, dinulur
deniwigaya punpunan sang hyang sarwwadharmma

ing bhimi janggala pangjalu, pinaka-
sopananyan
ken

sowang

sowang by&thajyan lakwalakwanadohaparé, amiji-
lak8n padadar, pamdihan, paga
rém. mareng juru, buyut, kabayan, aweh patum-
bak tamwi. panghulu baju nguni
ngiini pamijakén tahun, padacangan, yatikinma-
hakén trasanya, an tinitih bcik
4,

HIMANSU BHUSHAN SARKAR

dening thani bala, pinisakitan tan kinawruhinanya,
nimittanyanapulung rahyangi

ndidbhrta sakawat bhiming janggala pangijalu,
marék ri sang ramapati, mwang rirakryan apatih
makaso

pana mpungku dharmmadhyaksa mapafiji tanu-
tama, sang rdmapati pwa sakatadharmma cintana,
tan hup tan

kuminkining karaksaning sarwwadharmma, pi towi
pwan hana turunyadnugraha bhatara jaya ari
wisnliwa

rddhana irikang sarwwadharmman sapiha sakeng
thinibala, nginikala sangapafji patipati dha
rmmadhikarana, nimittanyanenak kakanigeayaniki
pinintonakén sang apaiji tanuta

ma ri sang ramapati, karana sang ramapati dinulur
de rakryan apatih sacchaya mwang sang apaniji ta
nutama, marék ri éri maharaja ring wigaya punpun-
an sang hyang sarwwadharmma, mratisubaddhak-
na panapih bha

tara jayasriwisnuwarddhana, ring wigaya punpunan
sang hyang sarwwadharmma sakeng thani bala,
makadona

kaswatantran sang hyang sarwwadharmma, mang-
dadyakna sthiratarani palinggih sri maharaja ring
ratna singha

gana, pinakekacdtraning sayawadwipa. pinako-
ttunggadewa sang samantaprabhu ring bhimi
janggala pangjalu, mangkana rasani hatursang
ramapati, winuriwuril deni haturakryanapati

h pinirés8pakén deni sang apafiji tanutama, 4ri
maharaja prabhudewangSa, dharmmama
rttyawatara, inahakén bhata@ra paramakarana,
sumapwana kaléngkaning bhiwana, munarjiwakna
sarwwadharmma, malwyaknang jagaddhita, ma-
kawyakti gatisang prabhu, an satyddi wihitagilanu-
cara,
3 a.

AN OLD-JAVANESE INSCRIPTION 59

pitowipwan kakawaga deni hatur ning pada
wagmimaya sarisaryyanghaturakén heyopade

ya, kdrana éri maharaja, an wawang manganumoda
ri hatur sang ramapati, dinulur

de rakryan apatih sacchaya mwang sang apafiji
tanutama, an tikang wisaya punpunan sang hyang
sa

rwwadharmma, sapiha sakeng thani bala, mar-
yyanitakna by&t danghani thani bala, byer hajya
nagong admit, lakwalakwan adoh aparé, turuntu-
run sagem sarakut sakeng thani

bala, maryyamiilakna  padadar, pamdihan
pagagarém, mareng juru, buyut, kabaya

n, maryyaweha papinda pa (ng} ti, patiklanggas,
panghulubafiu, mareng thani balanya, sowang so
wang, kunéng yan panukw bafiu ikang thani bala
pangasrayanya, tumatatukwasapanut sa

ni sawahnya ikang kalagyan, tanpamijilakna panu-
lis, kunéng ikang tanpgatawijila

knanya mareng thanibala, pamija juga, wyaktyan-
yan tan pgata pamarasrayanya ring thani bala
yapwan hana-kaharép sang prabhu rikang wisaya
punpunan sang hyang sarwwadharmma, byét
hajyanan, lakwa

lakwan, pinta palaku salwanya kewala katémwa ri
mpungku dharmmadhyakga juga, tan kahawa

ta sakeng thani bala, kun&ng kolahulaha sang
hyang rajapragasti an pinuja denikang wisa

ya punpunan sang hyang sarwwadharmma,
amarutapajéng kuning, acuringa rahinawngi, ndan
haywa tekang wiga

ya punpunan sang hyang sarwwadharmmanghiras
watSk, angiwwa rare, abafiwabafiwa, apugata
awarawaranga fl

khalanikapiijan sang hyang rajapraéasti, muwah
kawnangaknikang wisaya punpunan sang hyang
sarwwadharmma kha
b,

& a.

Nat

HIMANSU BHUSHAN SARKAR

lang kalagyan, paryyangan, mwang dharmina
jumput, ri kalanyan pamiija ri sang hyang prasada
kabhaktyan

sowang sowang, Wnang ajnwahalang, asumping
tufjung siniwak, muwah anugraha éri mahirAja
amaluyakén kaswatantran sang hyang sarwwa:
dharmma, tan kaknana de sang wisaya punpunan
sang hyang sarwwa

dharmma ri pamdang tanghiran, pakudur panghu-
rang, pakris, pasrah anganggwawali, tuwuh watu,
huri

panak, k8mbang ipdng tutufjung, t8pé!l sang ratu
tunggak ning garyyang, nawagraha, nagapuspa,
wnanga

nusuna sald, aguntinge ruhur bale, wnanganjamaha
kawula, amupuha kawulenakwaké

n, amupuhangrahana, ingirup ingirir ing parud
amangana salwiming rajamangsa kadya

ngganing badawang, wdus gunting, karung pulih,
pjahaning rara, asu tug$l, anan8ma kamale
rumambati

ngumah, anané$ma kémbang  kunérihar’pan,
ananéma galuguh, adrwyapat8téngahan aja
ngwagading, ikang jury kula, mangkana rasanya-
nugraha éri krtanagara, ri wisaya punpunan sa
rwwa dharmma sakawat bhiimi janggala pangijalu,
ri wruhanikang sakalajana ryyatigayanikadharmma-
para

yanan Sti mahdraja anpinakekacchatraning saya
wadwipa, maluyaktn pangeki

krtibhami janggala pangjalu, matangyan dadi ta
sang hyang rajaprasasti, malaw6law6 krtanaga

ra, magéhakén kaswatantran sang hyang sarwwa-
dharmma, sampun umunggwing ripta, hinldpan
pitawastra, pinangkwa

kén irikang wisayadharmma samudiaya, ri sanmata
paratanda rakryan makabehan, manghaturakni.
AN OLD-JAVANESE INSCRIPTION 6i

kang wisayadharmma, sa{  )na, ka, |, 9G, 3, ri
éri maharaja pamuspanyan sampun kytanu

graha, kunSng ri sdénganya hanang ruddhamung-
kilmungkila ri rasa sang hyang  rajaprasasti,
salwiranya

yadyan caturwarnna, brahmana, ksatriya, wedya;
gudra, athawa, caturasrama, brahmacari,

grhastha, wanaprastha, bhiksuka, makadi sang
prabhu mantry anagata, mwang pinghayakurug
anakthani ya

wat umulahulahi rasa sang hyang raja prasasti, tan
atguh karaksan i kaswatantran sang hyang sarwwa-
dharmma

tasmat kabyét karmmaknanya, sakula gotranya-
muktya phalaning pataka, mahapataka, atipata

ka, phalanyan mangulahakén- hanyayaprawrtti,
kawulakan de sang hyang trayodaéga saksi, a

ditya, candra panilonalaéca, dyoh butimirapo-
hrdayam yamasca dhaéca ratra

éca tathaécasanmya dharmmasca janakinarayawr-
ttam, mangkana pwa, yo rajanugraham hatwa,
mohat murkho naro hi sah, pardparakulais sarw-
waih, rorawam yantu sarwwada, yawat bhi
tanikah srstwa, tawad janmi punar yyadi, keudra
jantu Sarirani, prapnuyarcca narodhama, ya

di syan manugibhitah, kliwah kustagca bamanah,
an( ) omattohyapasmaro, kubjah pa

ngguh kunis tatha. nahan katmahanyan dadi
wwang ti huwusnyan tum$mpuh ring maha-
rorawa la

stu, astu, astu | om namasiway Jol

bo The firat strophe ie Indravajra. Note of Dy. Brandes.
62

1 6,

2 a,

|

HIMANSU BHUSHAN SARKAR

TRANSLATION

Hailt The Saka year past, in the Saka year 1191,
the month of Karttika, fifth day of the bri

ght half of the month was (day of the six-day
week), Kaliwon (day of the five-day week),
Thureday, Lengkir,’ the star is Uttaraisadha, the
deity is Vidva,

the yoga is Ganda, the muhdrfta is Vairajya, the
lord of the orb is Varuna, the Kerana is Valava,
the zodiac sign is scorpion *. On this day the
orders of the auspicious one who is overlord of
rulers of all the worlds, an incarnation of Nara-
sinha of

unrivalled chivalry, with (his)  lotus(-feet)*
(adorned) with ornaments given by numerous
kings who are like crestjewels.

whose nature is to smoothe the heart-lotus of
virtuols men suffering from afflictions with the
consecration-name éri Krtanagara,—were received
by the three rakrya

-n mahamaniris, (viz.) rakryan mantri hino, rakryan
mantri sirikan, rakryan mantri halu, and commu-
nicated to paratanda

rakryans of different affairs, (viz.) rakryan
(m)apetih named Kbo aréma, rakryan dmung
mapanji* Wipakga, rakryon Ranuruhan® mapanji
Anurida, having at their head the Hon. Minister
who is extremely eloquent,

Expressing ao Mal-Polynesian time,

2 The text has mpechike, cvidently s corruption from vurécika, The
transformation of v to m ia duc to Mal-Polynesian influence.

3° The text should have carandrawinda instead of simply arawinda.

4 Lit, ‘surnamed’.

5 Jn the Majapahit period, rakryan rangga and rakryan tumenggung
were added to the number of the above three. The mahamantris

gradually became figure-heads.
AN OLD-JAVANESE INSCRIPTION 63

3. expert in foreign politics (and} intent on making
friendly relations with the king of the other island,
(viz.) Madhura (i.c., Madura), of the name of
Sang Rama

4. »pati, without leaving behind (in consideration)
the Sang pamgat i tirwan' (who is} dang aciryya
Dharmmadeva, sang pamg6t ing kandamuhi

3, (whois) dangicaryya Smaradahana, sang pamgét i
manghuri (who is} dangacaryya Smaradeva, sang
pamg6t ing jamba (who is} danga

6. -caryya Sivanatha,” sang pamg&t ing paiijang jiwa
(who is} dangacaryya Agraja, my lord the superin-
tendent of religion of the Sai

7 -vites (who is) dangacaryya Sivanatha? surnamed®
Tanutama,*—for disposing of the orders of éri
mahara&ja in res

6. |. -pect of the temple of Lokegvara, including the
subordinate region of

2. St. Sarvvadharmma ; etc.,

are to be sufficiently informed of

3, the sacred royal pragasti having the seal of Krta-
nagara in respect of the subordinate region of
St. Sa

4. -rvvadharmma, (This) was maintained and taken
care of by Sri maharaja for the freedom of 5t.
Sarvvadharmma, In this connexion my lord

5, the Superintendent of religion surnamed Tanutama
was led to go to the subordinate religion of St,
Sarvvadharmma

1 Dr. van Naerssen contributes a remarkable paper on these terms in
the BKI., 90, pp, 239-258,

2 These names appear te be accidentally identical.

3 In BK, 78, p. 444, Dy, Poerbatjaraka takes this Mapaaji as a
proper name with Tanulama. I think that he has been tighlly criticised
by Dr, van Naerssen in Le., p. 246, 1. 5.

4 It is noteworthy that the name of dharmmaédhyaksa ring kasogatun,
ie., the superintendent of religion of the Buddhists does not appear here,
64 HIMANSU BHUSHAN SARKAR

6. in the countries of Janggala and Pang-
jalu. On that occasion

each
3. a. |. of the royal servants’ hurried far and near, brought
fineries, cloth (and) salt,

2. (and) went to the jura.? buyut® (and) kebayen®
(who) gave first of all (?) stakes, guides, holy water
above

3, allreligious duties for the year and all cangans
(2). These now had the consequence of (creating)
the fear of them who were thoroughly governed

4. by Thanibala (lit. local authority ) who were
troubled without knowing (the remedy of) it. For
reason of deliberation,

5. the principal officers (?)* belonging to the countries
of Janggala and Pangjalu tendered their homage to
sang Ramapati and to rakryan {mjepatih, through
the instru.

6. -mentality of my lord {who is) the superintendent
of religion, surnamed Tanutama. Sang Ramapati
and Sakatadharmma thougbt, (but) did neither
try’ (2) nor

7. care for the protection of Sarvvadharmma, though
there was still the bestowal of the favour of Bhatara
Jaya Sri Visnuva

] The text has byet whieli is nat known to me. The context
prompla me to accept the above meaning. It cannot be a corruption of
buyat as this has been correctly spelt in the following line, In a cor
reaponding passage In 4b, 2 and in OJO., p, 202, inser, no. 83, Ga, we
find bwot Aajyan ageng admit fokwalakwan adoh opare, efc., and this
undoubtedly supports my iranalation of the term.

2 Lit. head of corporntions.

3 Villageoffeluis. According to Kern wohuto=later buyut; Rabe:
yon village messenger.

4 The relevant phrase of the text is not known to me but my
translation may be warranted by the contest.

5 The text has a doubthul reading here.
AN OLD-JAVANESE INSCRIPTION 65

-rddhana to Sarvvadharmma about its separation
from Thanibala (or, local authority) formerly while
sang apanji Patipati’ was the judge (dhar
-mmédhikdrana). For satisfying and confirming,
these (officers) were presented by the worthy
(one) surnamed Tanuta

-ma to Sang Ramapati. The reason why Sang
Ramapati was accompanied by rekryan (m)apatih
as a shadow’® and by the worthy (one) surnamed
Ta

-nutama was to pay respects to Sri maharaja about
the subordinate region of St. Sarvvadharmma (and)
to get confirmed the separation

of the subordinate region of St. Sarvvadharmma
from Thanibala for, local authority) made by
Bhatara Jaya Sri Visnuvardhana, the object being
the — = I

freedom of St. Sarvvadharmma. May this have
the consequence of making firmer the sitting-place
of Sti mah&raja on the jewelled throne,

making his one umbrella protect the whole of
the island of Java, {as) he has been made overlord
of the worthy samantaprabhus (i, e., subordinate
kings) of the countries of

Janggala and Pangjalu. Such were the contents
of the memorial (lit. proposal) of Sang Ramapati
which was followed by the memorial of rakryan
(mapatih®

(both of which) were communicated by the worthy
one surnamed Tanutama. Sri maharaja is a part
of divinity and an incar

Vide N. J. Krom, Geschiedenial, pp. 317, 323.

Z Or, Seeechaya? f-e., of his own accord.

3 Here is a linguistic peculiarity. The text has hafurakryan” which
is clearly Aatur+rakryan, OF these two r’s one has been dropped accord-
ing to later custom.
66 HIMANSU BHUSHAN SARKAR

3. -nation of the image of Dharmma, i. e., virtue,
and he was predestined by the Bhafdra, (lit. deity),
the ultimate cause (of all things), to wipe out the
disgraceful beings of the world. All the dying
religious systems

4. were re-vitalised and the welfare of the world
progressed apace,—all bearing testimony to the
conduct of the worthy king, firstly in respect of
trath and then of commendable precepts and
other things.

5, These were also described' by the memorial of
the one like the eloquent one (i. e., Sang Rama-
pati); the substance of the presented memorial
indicated what was to be left out and what was to
be retained (by the king}.

6, For these reasons, Sri maharaja immediately
approved of the memorial of Sang Ramapati who
was followed by _

7. rakryan (mjapatih asa shadow and by the one
surnamed Tanutama. He accordingly separated
the subordinate region of

b. |. St. Sarvvadharmma from Thanibala (or, local
authority) and this ceased to follow the byét
danghar® of Thanibala {or, local authority). The
royal servants,

2. great and small, travelled far and near,’ and
returned (to the temple) all hold and trust {pre-
viously) resting with Thanibala

3, (or, local authority). (Further) they ceased to bring

| The text has kaweéa= katwaoga, The iit. meaning is overthrown,
subjugated, ectc.. but these do not appear to be applicable here. | there-
fore supply the above meaning from context.

2 Apparently a class of officers,

3 The writer's spelling calls for attention, for he writes the same
word in different ways. Cf. apare of 3a. 1. with opard in 46,2.
He was either careless or during his time e=&, Influence of oral speech
ia also possible.
AN OLD-JAVANESE INSCRIPTION 67

fineries, clothes and salt, and (stopped) going to
juru, buyut

4. and kabayan (who) held back giving sums for the
panel of servants,—’, holy water, and (ceased}’ to
go to any officer of Thanibala (or, local authority).

5, Still, when the buying-price for (holy) water goes
to the side of Thanibala (or. local authority), this
must be diverted to buy off in agreement with
(temple-authorities)

6. sawabk-held for the temple. The order-sheet may
not be produced and the arrears realised may

7. go to Thanibala (or, local authority) for religious
services only, indicating (thereby) that this serves
to maintain friendly relations with (lit. this does not
exclude getting help from) Thanibala {or, local
authority). — |

3a. 1. And such are the wishes of the worthy king about

the subordinate region of St. Sarvvadharmma. The
royal servants travelled (far and

2. near) and requested all kinds of men to come only
to interview my lord (who is) the sole superinten-
dent of religions (dharmmadhyaksa), (but) not any
officer’ |

3. from Thanibala. What now concernsis : the
arrangement of the sacred rajapragasti about the
worship to be done by the subordinate

4. region of St. Sarvvadharmma, about the opening
of yellow umbrella and about the use of foot-bells,
day and night (by its inmates). But let not the
subordinate region

5. of St. Sarvvadharmma ever stand under the

] ‘The word pattklenggas ia not known Jo me.

Z This comes from the previous construclion.

3 Apparently because all powers have now slipped off their hands,
aa has been suggested in 4b. 2.
68

bo

hens.

moh ome Ww

?

HIMANSU BHUSHAN SARKAR

authority of women, lads (and) abafwabenwa'
who may spoil (it and} add

6. difficulties to it,—(all) in scant courtesy to the
sacred rajapragasti. Further, the subordinate
region of St. Sarvvadharmma shall possess the

7. khalang’, cloister, temple and dhermma jumout*
at the time of worship in the holy prasada kabhak-
tyan.*

], Each one (in these places) can use pearl-powder,
halang-weapon, split-up lilies as ear-rings. As the
favour of Sri mahadraja

2. brings back the freedom of St. Sarvvadharmma.
the subordinate region of St. Sarvvadharmma
may not be visited by

3, pamdang® fanghiren,® pakudur,"  panghurang,’
pahris,” pasrah.* (Each one in these places) can
use twigs, fuwuh-stone, hori

4. -panak’, ipéngflowers, itufijung-flowers, tépel,’
the holy ratu funggak ning garyyang,* nawagraha,"
ndgapuspa (i ¢., Serpent ower). (Each one}

5. can usea sitting bench, sheve in the high hall. dis-
honour slaves, beat slaves out of sportiveness,

6. kill (them) for theft, blow'°—with fans, eat all

kinds of rich dish (raéjamangsa) such

Apparently a class of persona,

Probably a spelling-mistake for Kalang. ic.,  fighting-paik for
It has been mentioned in many inscriptions.

A kind of religious foundaiion.

Main iemple?

A class of persona.

Official title of the priest.

In VG., VII, p. 47, Kern translates thie word by  fijar.

Dr, Stntterheim however raises plausible objections to this. Vide TBG..
65, p. 243, fn, 68. He rhinks that the term cerresponds to Tukan or chied,
older, ete.

8
9
16

A kind af flowers?
Name of a Aoral substance.
The meaning of ingirir ia nol known to me.
ee

Ln

on

AN OLD.JAVANESE INSCRIPTION 69

as that of tortoise, wqdus gunting', wild boar
killed (even) by women (2)*, castrated dog.
(Each one) can plant lotuses to cree p along

the premises, plant kunér-Rowers in the neighbour-
hood, plant galuguh (-creepers?) and station in the
middle

little treea of yellow cocoanuts (viz.) ajangu and
the juru kula. Such are the contents of the favour
of Sri Kytanagara to the subordinate region of
Sarvvadharmma and principal ofhfcers of the
countries of Janggala and Pangjalu. Cognisance
must be taken of this that all men were in exhu-
berance of loyalty (lit, virtue) to

Sri maharaja who held one umbrella over the whole
of Javadvipa and brought back the unification

of the countriea of Janggala and Pangjalu. In
connexion with this, the sacred rajapragasti also
stated (?) that Krtanaga

-ra confirmed the freedom of St. Sarvvadharmma.
Hence forward it put into writing that yellow
garments would be beautified and given (>)

to the temple-region with the consent of the
paratanda rakryan* of different affairs. The
temple-region also offered“, ka |, su 3 to Sri
maharaja to show respects for the fayour bestowed
henceforward.

And, in the meanwhile, if there be anyone who
objects to and violates substance of the sacred
rajaprasasti, all classes of men,

whether the four varnas (viz.) Brihmana, Keatriya,
Vaisya or Sidra’, or those belonging to the four
agramas (viz.) Brahmacari,

A kind of goat.

Pjahoning rara may together stand for the name of a kind of animals.
Spelt as paratands rakryan in |b. 7.

Mutilated.

They are mentioned for the first time'in the inser. of Pehampikan,
ro HiIMANSU BHUSHAN SARKAR

4, Grhastha, Vanaprasiha, Bhiksuka, to begin with the
future kings, ministers, pinghay', akurug', anak-
thani*, so long

4, as they violate the substance of the sacred rdja-
prasesti and fail to maintain and protect the
freedom of St. Sarvvadharmma,

6. as the result of this deed, may all their families
and relations suffer the consequences of sins,
great sins (mahapadtaka) and excessive sins (ati-
pdtaka),

7. bearing fruits that tend towards creating harm.
They may be enslaved by thirteen deities". The
witne

7a. |. -sses are the Sun, the Moon, the wind", the fire, the
ether, the earth, water, heart, Yama, day, night,

2, as also time’, laws, the group of Janaki and Naraya-
(na>?). Now then, if any one violates the royal favour

3. out of infatuation, he is a fool; he always goes
to the Raurava-hell with all his families and
relations. As long as beings

4, are created, if he is reborn during this period, this
mean man shall receive the figure of a tiny beast; if

5. he is born as a human being, he shall be a eunuch,
leper, dwarf...... with dropsy, hunch-back,

6. disabled body and finger-disease. Thereafter he
may be incarnated in such a man as will at last be
thrown into the Mahdraurava-hell. Let

7. it be sv, be it so, be it so. Om!) Salutation
to Siva ||O]|

dated 898 A.D. (OfO., XXX}, The candales ond Mieechas ore also men:
tioned herein. The copper-plates of Keboan-pasar, dated 473 A.D.
OJO., UX), also refer to the four varnas, but these plates are regarded as
unauthentie by some.

| A class of officers. 2 Lt. natives,

3 In the Old-javanese tezt Amoramala, we read: "Amaeras
tridagah proktah.”” Wide my Indian influences, ete., p. 112.

4 The use of the prefix pa before the compound is unnecessary.

5 Saumya=—Samoyo? This may be due to copyist's carelcasness.
identification of ‘Sri Visnuvarrnan"
of the Perak Seal’
By Dr, Bahadur Chand Chhabra.

One of the most interesting objects that have been
brought to light during the excavations carried out, not very
long ago, by Mr. Ivor H. N. Evans at the site of Tanjong
Rawa Kuala Selinsing, Perak, was a small engraved piece
of semi-precious stone—a signet, (the ring to which it must
ortginally have been attached hag not yet been found}. It
now ranks among those important antiquities that bear an
eloquent testimony to the Hindu culture prevailing in the
Malay Peninsula during the .early centuries of the Chnetian
era. lt has been deserrbed by its discoverer as follows:
“It is a small seal of, red cornelian’ of -good colour and
somewhat translucent, chamfered at the edges on the face
and there engrayed with an inscnption running the length
of the seal in the middle. The dimensions of the piece are
14 cms. xl cm. x4 cm. (cit.). The back is flat." The
original seal is now preserved in the Perak Museum, and
bas since been studied from its imprints by several scholars.
While divergent opinions have been offered regarding its
script, contents and age, no possible identification of its
owner is yet forthcoming.

The present writer has had occasion to deal, at some
length, with this piece of antiquity in his thesis entitled
Expansion of Indo-Aryan Culture during Pallava Rule;? but
the recent note by Mr. Roland Braddcll has prompted him
to comment upen the same in greater detail.

| Oudh. Verat. 1930, p. 36; 1H. N. Evans, JFMSM., Vol, XV, pt.
3. 1932, pp. 84, 86, 88, 89-90, 10-11, pl. xxxviii, figa. I, 2; JRASMB., Vol.
XI, pt. 1, 1933, p. 209; R. O. Winstedt and R. J. Wilkinson, A History of
Perak—JRAS5MB., Vol. XII, pt. J, 1934, p. 4; Roland Braddell, JRASMB.,
Vol, XII, pt. I, 1934, pp. 173-4.
2 This is being published under the auspices of the Asiatic Socicty
of Bengal, Calcutta, and may appear in the next issue (January, 1935) of
the Society's Journel, [Jt has since been published—Ed. ]
72 BAHADUR CHAND CHHABRA

As Mr. Evans states, the legend on the seal was formerly
read by some Dutch authorities as rf vigguvarmman, and
later by Dr. C. ©, Blagden and Dr. L. D, Barnett as én
vignuvarmmasya, Prof. K. A. Nilakanta of the Madras
University however, wniting to Mr. Roland Braddell, observes:
“The writing on the seal may be read cither ri vignu-
varmmasya or 4rt vignugarmmasya, the termination being
wrong in either case, and the usual form being varmanah or
farmanah.”’ | mysclf had already surmised that the reading
was perhaps sri visnudharmmasya, in which case no error
of grammar would present itself. 1 was indeed led to this
assumption by a close resemblance which one often finds
between the formations of the letters va and dha in a script
like the present one. ‘1 had, however, to give up that view;
for an examination of the three impressions of the seal,
kindly supplied to me by ‘the Keeper of the Perak Museum
and by the Director of the Archeological Survey of Nether-
lands East Indies, convinced me that the letter under
discussion was not likely to be read as dha, because it is
exactly similar to that in the second syllable—vi. The
legend decidedly reads: éri vignttvarmmasye. It thus con-
tains two fallacies: ri for ri and varmmasya for varmmanah.
The former may be ascribed to the engraver who has put
a simple curve that usually marks a medial i (short),
whereas he ought to have cut a spiral to indicate the i
(long). The second mistake is rather difficult to explain.
The form varmmasya may intentionally have been used in
order to keep the possessive sense free from al! ambiguity,
the correct form varmanah being liable to be confused either
with the accusative plural or with the ablative singular. And
indeed jt seems to have been a common practice that seal-
legends contained the owner's name in the genitive, as may
be seen on many of the ‘sealings’ found at Basarh, the
anctent Vaigali, some specimens of which contain even such
forms as kulikaharisya and prakdsanandisya’. |t is noticed
in some of the Prakrit languages that sya has become a

1 Ann. Rep. Arch. Surv. Ind. 1903-04, pp. 115, 117, Noa. 77, 98.
IDENTIFICATION OF “SRT VISNUVARMAN” 7!

generalized termination of the possessive case, but not in
Sanal-rit. Some lexicons, on the other hand, also give a
word varma to he used only at the end of a compound,
an example of which is to be found in the Mahabharata IX,
2683 (Jvalitalatadhdrinyd citrabharanavarmaya). Mercover.
such errors are not unknown in epigraphy. Putro ‘sva-
varmmo vikhydtah occurs, for instance, in one of Mila-
varman’s inscriptions frorn Borneo.’ In India, too, one comes
across sich a usage as maharaja-garvvavarmmena in the
Nirmand copper-plate inscription of Samudrasena’. In the
present instance, even if we regard varmmasya as a shecr
mistake, the cense is clear.

The only point on which all the scholars seem to agree
is that the type of script represented on the seal is what
may rightly be termed as the Pallava-Grantha. Still there
exists an uncertainty as to which stage in the development
of the Pallava-Grantha is represented here. In the ease of
undated records, paleography no doubt helps a good
deal in guessing at their approximate date. The peculiar
forms of the characters of the seal also offer such a study.
Each character, as may be seen, contains a small dash on
the top: they may thus be regarded as belonging to what
is known as the ‘box-headed’ type. They possess an
elegance of carving, which shows that they have passed the
very primitive stage. Only the curve of medial short i
points to the archaic type. This is perhaps what led Dr, P.
V. van Stein Callenfels to date the seal about A.D. 400.
Later, however, he reviscd his view and dated it about
A.D. 690, Mr. Evans himself seems to favour this last date.
Dr. Blagden says: “I have known a ‘Pegu' (Burma)
inscription, bearing date 1112-3 A.D.. which had forms that
were archaic and obsolesccnt in India more than seven
centuries carlicr, Barnett (Dr. L. D, Barnett of the British
Museum] says, ‘the seal is older than the 9th century,

1 Bijdragen, deel 74, 1918, facing p. 232, Inser. A, 1 3.
2 Flest, Gupta Inscriptions, p. 289.

16
74 BAHADUR CHAND CHHABRA

probably,’’ He further remarks: ‘'A.D, 400 is perhaps a
bit early, but | am not prepared to say that it is impossible.
Judging from Bihler's Plates in Indian Paleography,
there was not much change between 400 and about
750 A.D."'' Prof. Nilakanta holds a similar view: for he
states: “the writing on the seal is much later than 400 A.D,""?
The consensus of opinion thus goes in favour of A.D. 600
and even later, It is rather risky to draw any such con-
clusion from a comparison of the few characters of the seal.
Apparently they compare equally well with those of Miila-
varman's inscriptions {c. A.D. 400} from Borneo and those
of Bhadravarman's inscriptions (c. A.D. 400) from Campa
on one hand, and with those of Mahendravarman I's inscrip-
tions (c, A.D. 600-630) from South India on the other. What
lends the inscription on the seal an archaic air, is the
fashion of expressing the medial i bya superscribed curve,
which is left open, It may, however, be remembered that
this feature is not restricted only to ancient inscriptions. In
later records, it is true, this curve has become so closed as
to assume the appearance.of a superscribed circle, stil] the
former fashion is met within certain documents of as late
a date us A.D. 700, Regarding this point, | need simply
refer to the observations made by Prof, Vogel in connexton
with Nilavarman's inscriptions.”

As regards the interpretation of the legend, it was first
rendered by the same Dutch authorities as ‘‘the most
excellent armour of Vignu.”” Dr, P, V. van Stein Callenfels
at the same time observed that “the ‘sri’ certainly points
to a king or a prince.’ Mr. Evans, though aware that this
name was borne by several Pallava kings, remarks: ‘'I had
wondered, too, whether it might not be the ring of some
commoner bearing an inscription with a talismanic signific-

aig

ance. Prof, Nilakanta says: ‘"The proper place for the

I JFMSM,, Vol. XV, pt. 3, pp. 89-90.
Z JRASMB., Vol, XII, pt. Il, p. 173.
3) Bijdragen, deel 74, pp. 228-9.

4 JFMSM., Vol. XV, pt 3. p. EEL
IDENTIFICATION OF “SRI VISNUVARMAN" 75

seal, wherever it may be, does not seem to belong to
Pallava history."' The name érivignuvarman occurs in a
grant“ of the Kadamba king Ravivarman.! The passage
in question reads: grivignuvarmmaprabhrtin narendran
tihatya jitvd prthivim sama [stam]. Since this is a
statement of a victor with reference to the foes he has
vanquished, one doubts whether the 417 here is an honorific
or whether it constitutes a part of the name itself, This
name has, however, not properly been identified. Dr. Fleet
thought that it was possibly identical with Visnugopa or
Visnugopavarman who was one of the Pallava kings of
c. A.D, 340.2% Mr. R. Gopalan, on the other hand, thinks
that this Visnuvarman was presumably a collateral cousin
and descendant of the Kadamba king Krsnavarman
{c. A.D, 500).* In any case, the present legend certainly
means that the seal belonged to an individual named Sri
Visnuvarman. One of the Basarh sealings bears the legend :
fri ghatotkacaguptasya. The individual featuring here has
been identified with the Gupta king Ghatothaca. In lke
manner the i and the varman in the present seal pessibly
refer to a royal personage. In my former paper referred to
above | had identified this 4ri visnuvarman with the
Sailendra king Visnu that figures on one face of the Ligor
inscription,* which is not dated, but is, in any case, anterior
to A.D. 775. While there seems to be little objection to such
a supposition, the topographical position of the two sites,
Perak and Ligor, rather strengthens the rame. It is thus
with a firmer conviction that | offer the same identification
again.

1 fnd, Ant., Vol, VI, 1877, pp. 29, 39.

2 fad. Ant, Vol. V, p. 50; Vol. V1, p. 30.

3 Gopalan, History of the Pallavas of Kanchi, 1928, p. 73.

4 BEFEO,, Vol. XVIE, no. 6, pp. 1-36, Appendix no. 1, 4 & 8. with
two plales; fournal of the Greater India Society, Vol. 1, No. 1, January
1934, p 12,
The Celebes Bronze Buddha
-By Dr. Bahadur Chand Chhabra,

Interest has recently been roused by the discovery of a
large but broken standing bronze Buddha on the west coast
of Celebes. It is said that the piece was found, more than
twelve years ago, at the foot of a hillock on the bank of
the Karam river near Sikendeng,. but that it came to the
notice of the authorities of Netherlands India only in 1933
when it was transported to the Batavia Museum.. The find
has given rise to systematic explorations in that part of the
island; for it is hoped that more Indo-Aryan vestiges may
come to light in Celebes, too, where nothing of the sort has
so far been found. This circumstance invests the present
specimen with special interest. Moreover it claims to be
the largest bronze discovered so far both in Further India
and in Indian Archipelago, though unfortunately it has not
reached us entire. Its legs and hands are missing, and in
this condition it measures 75 cm, in height. Its right
shoulder is uncovered and the rhythmical folds of the garb
are well-marked. As such it distinguishes itself from the
Buddha bronzes of Java and Sumatra and pointe to a higher
antiquity. It resembles the Buddha bronzes of Ceylon as
well as of Amaravati in South India. Dr. Bosch has made
an exhaustive study (Het bronzen Buddha-beeld van Celebes’
Westkuet in Tijdschrift Bet, Gen. LXXII, 1933, pp. 495-513
with two plates) of the present piece and is of opinion that
it was probably exported from Amaravati.
NOTICES OF BOOKS

Cronace della Missione Scientifica Tucci nol Tibet
Occidentele (1933) By G. Tucci and E. Ghersi, Royal
Academy of Italy, Roma, 1934, pp. 395-+272 illustrations
+ Index+a Map.

The Royal Acadamy of Italy has recently published the
“Chronicle of Tucci’s Scientific Expedition to Western Tibet
during the summer of 1933°" by G. Tucci and E. Ghersi.

The name of Tucci is well-known among Indian scholars
and this new contribution of his to a more positive and
scientific knowledge of Tibet both in its religious and
archaeological aspects cannot but be widely appreciated.

As the title of the book indicates, this is the narrative
of his journey throughout Western Tibet, the Guje region,
where Rin c’en bzan po chiefly performed his apostolic
mission. of introducing the Buddhist doctrines among his yet
primitive brethren. .

The vividuess of the book pleasantly carries the reader
along through the vicissitudes and adventures encountered
by the authors. Dr. Ghersi accompanied Prof. Tucci both as
a physician and as a photographic expert. Indeed the
beauty of the jilustrations which profusely enrich the book
throughout, amply testifies to his merits.

For a closer and more scholarly study of all the docu-
ments and materials collected by Tucci during his expedi-
tion, the reader is referred to the third volume of the “Indo-
Tibetica” which is to be published shortly by the Royal
Academy of Italy. We must limit ourselves to a short
summary of the book under notice.

On the 14th June 1933 the party reaches Sultanpur where
several days are spent to get together the caravan and the
victuals. On the 2]at June with 24 horses and 17 men they
are able to leave Sultanpur, aiming to reach the river Spiti
through the Rohtang-la and Chandra valley. They reach the
78 NOTICES OF BOOKS

bridge of Kelat in the afternoon and Manali on the following
day. After the day's climbing they are on the Rothang
mountain-pass which is some 12,000 feet high and therr they
redeseend into the Chandra valley and point towarda Losar
which they reach on the 30th June. {n one of the libraries of
a private house Tucci finds an old xylograph of the epos of
Kesar of gLin, the hero of the Tibetan epic. Through
Kioto, in the old valley of the Spiti, they arrive at Kibar; in
a private temple they discover some very interesting fres-
coes. From there, they proceed to Ki, to visit its famous
monastery. They are kindly received by the monks there,
the oldest of whom still remember the visit paid to them
by Francke in 1909. They go then to the monastery of Kaze
and reach Lithang on the 12th July, At Lhalung, in the
valley of the Lingti, they ‘see the temple, already visited by
Shuttleworth, who, however failed properly to identify the
sacred images there. There is a beautiful wooden image of
Buddha of perfect Indian workmanship and Tucci succeeds
in securing it. Jn Drangkhar, the capital of the Spiti, they
visit the various temples and take interesting photos of the
frescoes. Through Po they reach Tabo, where there is
the famous monastery founded by Rin c’en bzan po. The
temple of Tabo is beautiful both for statues and frescoes
and the visitors have ample opportunity for collecting manus-
cripts and carrying on researches there. They also explore
all the Ciorten, taking note of the inscriptions. Through
Chang and Nako, under the sky-high and snewy peaks of
the Sutle}, they go on wending their way towards Tashigang,
an old priest receiving them, while they wait for the Skushok,
re-incarnated from whom really emanates a spiritual
superiority. Together with the Skushok, they visit the temple
of Tashigang, where a ruchien (an ornament made with
human bones and usually used for the ceremony called cioc)
is zealously kept: indeect, this rachien is of a superior artistic
value for its inimitable carvings: and Tucci, who has already
collected an ample literature on them, is only satished when
he induces the Skushok to part with it. They pass Namgia,
Shipki, Serkung, Tiak, Radnis, the birth-place of Rin
NOTICES OF BOOKS 79

cen bzan po. The temple of Rin c’en bzan po at Tiak
still preserves the veatiges- of its old splendour. Leaving the
valley of the Sutlej, they point to Miang, where they
inspect the ruins of the castle and all the temples. At
Nii they photograph the fine frescoes of its temples. After
an inspection at Gumphug they reach Dongbara on the [5th
August. Through Karum-la they arrive at Luk, where the
monastery and the frescoes of the temple capture the in-
terest of the travellers. After passing Sumur Gompa and Jang-
tang they reach the monaslery of Rabgyeling. where they
can study the three temples carefully. In Kyinipuk they find
thousands of eld is’a ts’a and some interesting MSS. At
Shangtze, the summer residence of the Governor of Tsa-
parang, they are received by the Governor himself most
cordially. The temple of Shangtze is beautifully decorated
with frescoes. They pass Laoche-la and through the: valley
of the Gartang, they reach Gartok. «Here Tucci meets a
very famous lama from Kham of the rDsogs c’en sect, who
was the beloved disciple of the famous Paldén devaghiazd.
Naturally they become engaged in mystic speculations and
are charmed with one another. After the mountain-pass of
Bogola and through Dongbo and Drinsa, they reach Toling
on the 17th September. Here they visit the monastery of
Ciortén (in one of which they are told that some relics of
Rin c’en bzati po are preserved}. But in the high part of
Toling they specially find some inestimable MSS. They are
allowed to take photographs of the great temple built in the
Mandala shape and adinire all the artistic and spiritual
treasures that are collected there. The frescoes of the White
Temple and of the sixteen Arhats’ temples still show their
artistic perfection, but the state of decay in which they are
kept cannot but sadden the heart of an enthusiast like Tucci.
ln Tsaparang again the ancient frescoes of its temples anc
the castle seem a heap of ruins, although in their interior
some valuable remains can still be found. After passing
through Puling and Rildigang they come to Ri, the temple
of which could once be compared to those of Toling and
Tsaparang. On the 30th September they are in Sarang and
80 NOTICES OF BOOKS

near Tinzam they cross the Sutlej river for their return
journey on the old route, having thug visited all the r-gons
of the Guge or Western Tibet. Through Shipki, Dabling,
Poo they reach Kanam, where, in one of its modest gompas
lived and studied for a long time Csoma de Kérds to whose
immortal memory Tucci has lovingly dedicated his present
work. In China and Sungra, in the temples of Visnu and
Mahadeva, the influence of the Indian art is again the more
evident though in a style which finds its amplest develop-
ment in Nepal. .

On the 2nd November the travellers reach Simla after
a journey accomplished entirely on foot, through difficulties
and privations, solely guided by their infinite longing to
detect fand if possible to preserve to the world) some of
the greatest monuments of Buddhist thought which other-

wise would have been lost for ever.

C. Rtaupo.

Archaeology in Gwalior by M. B. Garde, B. A., Superin-
tendent of Archaeology, Gwalior State ; 2nd ed. 1934.
pp. 151434 plates+a map.

A Guide to the Archaeological Museum at Gwalior,
Department of Archaeology, Gwalior ; pp. 52+ 18 plates

These are the publications of the Archaeological Depart-
ment of the Gwalior State which was created in 1913 by the
late lamented Maharaja Sir Madhav Rao of Gwalior. They
are an eloquent testimony not only to the enlightened in-
terest of the Gwalior State in Archaeological work, but also
to the unbounded energy and enthusiasm of the worthy
Archaeological Superintendent Mr. M. B. Garde.

The first-named work consists of two parts. In Part |
the author after giving a preliminary account of previous
archaeological explorations in the State and the origin of the
State Archaeological Service, passes in review the various
activities of the Department under appropriate headings.
NOTICES OF BOOKS 8}

We learn (p. 5) that the Department during the frst six
years of its existence was occupied, very properly, with the
preparation of a complete and up-to-date list of monuments,
their number reaching the high figure of 3,000 (p. 33). This
is followed by a brief but admirable survey of the ancient
city-sites (such as Ujjayini, Vidisa, Padmavati and Dagapura)
and of the monuments classified as Buddhist, Brahmanical,
Jaina and Muhammadan and including works of civil as well
as military architecture. Of equal interest is the list of the
Prakrit and Sanskrit inscriptions ranging from 2nd century
B.C, to 15th century A.C. as well as that of Arabian and
Persian inscriptions from the I4th to the 18th century.

The record of work done in the branch of numismatics
ia creditable as jt comprises the examination of over 5,000
coins of all periods during the last fve years. Coming to
another branch, the author mournfully confesses that no
excavation on a large scale has yet been attempted or is even
contemplated in the near future. But he mentions the
results of slight excavations that have been undertaken on
a number of the most promising sites (such as Vidiéa, Sondni
and Pawaya). The important work of conservation which
was not commenced till 1920-21 has at last been undertaken
in right earnest ancl its tesults are recorded in a long list of
preserved monuments. Finally a word of praise is due for
the fine collection of antiquities that are deposited in the
State Museum at Gwalior,

Part Il has the title of ‘A brief directory of important
places of archaeological interest in the Gwalior State.” It
fully justifies its title. by the thoroughness with which every
antiquarian site is dealt with in a brief compass.

We have noticed a few minor inaccuracies (Cf. ‘Hindu’
for ‘Brahmanical'—p. 11; ‘Pali’ for ‘Prakrit'—p. 67, ete.).
The value of the work has been enhanced by the inclusion
of no less than 34 plates and an archeological map of the
Gwalior State at the end.

The Guide to the Gwalior Archaeological Museum is an
equally useful publication, although an exhaustive catalogue
of antiquities would have been more welcome. After

11
82 NOTICES OF BOOKS

a brief prefatory account it gives us a_ bird's-eye
view of the contents of the twenty-six rooms in which the
collection is housed, along with such explanations as “are
needed for the general reader. It is interesting to observe
that the inscription-room contains thirty-eight inscribed
stones and eleven jmpressions of which those of Aégoka's
Saranath Pillar Edict and Heliodorus’ inscription are parti-
cularly noticed. In the other rooms the antiquities are
arranged on somewhat divergent principles. Sometimes
antiquities of the same class (like pillar-capitals, Yaksas and
demi-gods, mother and child, Siva and Parvati) are gathered
together, At other times antiquitics belonging to the same
site (like Vidisd, Padmavati and Udayagiri}, net to speak of
the world-famed Bagh frescoes, are so gathered, While the
latter grouping may justly be commended, a chronological
arrangement of the former group would certainly have been
preferable. .

Ul. N. GHosHat..
MISCELLANY

An interesting exhibition of Indian Architecture and
allied arts and crafts was held at the Senate House of the
Calcutta University from the &h to the 15th February, 1935.
The Exhibition, which was the first of its kind in Calcutta,
was opened with an inspiring addreas by Mr. Syama Prasad
Mookerjee, Vice-Chancellor of the Calcutta University.
The Greater India section was represented by a large
number of drawings, photographs and antiquities lent by
scholars and learned institutions both in and outside Bengal.
Dr. Andreas Nell of Colombo sent a few photographs
of ancient Ceylonese monuments, a few others representing
Ceylonese rural crafts and two representing a modern build-
ing in Colombo reproducing Ancient Indian architectural
features. Dy. Suniti Kumar Chatterji exhibited a painted
acroll from Bali representing the temptation of Anuna as
described in the Mahabharata story. The Fine Arts Seminar
of the Calcutta University exhibited large-sized photographs
and drawings of Borobudur as well as of Ankor Thom,
Ankor Vat and the Bayon. A number of Simhalese,
Nepalese, Chinese, Japanese and Tibetan antiquities was
displayed by the Mahabodhi Society of Calcutta, while
Messrs. Abdul Ali and Srish Chandra Chatterji exhibited
specimens of Burmese lacquer-work and photographs of

Siamese temples.
* * * * * Li * Ci

The Greater India Society has pleasure in announcing
that Mr. Himansu Bhusan Sarkar of the Dacca University is
actively engaged in preparing a complete and up-to-date
edition of Old-Javanese and Sanskrit Inscriptions of Java
with text, translation and notes. The work, which bears
the title Corpus Insecriptionum favanarum, is expected to

be ready for the Press by the middle of this year.
* * + ® ¥ “ * rm

The Greater India Society has profited, as in former
years, by the generous donation of a sum of Rs. 500/- only
84 MISCELLANY

made this year by the National Council of Education,
Bengal, for meeting its publication expenses. The Sog‘ety
conveys its sincere thanks to Sir P, C. Ray, President and
Mr. Hirendra Nath Datta, Vice-President, of the Council for
their active assistance in this matter.

Py * * < * * * *

Professor Giuseppe Tucci, Vice-President of the Royal
Italian Institute of the Middle and the Far East, has offered
for publication by the Greater India Soeiety a work called
"Travels of Tibetan Pilgrims to the Swat Valley’. The
Society has most gladly accepted the offer and it hopes to
take up the publication at an early date.

* = * = * * a *

Thanks to the active support and keen interest of
Mr. Syama Prasad Mookerjee, .Vice-Chancellor of the
Calcutta University, the Greater India Society is at last likely
to have a siége-social in one of the rooms of the Asutosh
Buildings of the Calcutta University. This will give the
Society the opportunity of housing its collection of reference-
books, reports, periodicals, ete., and making the same
accessible to all earnest students of the subject.

+ [ +. * + Ld * a

The Greater India Society gratefully aeknowledges the
patronage extended to its Journal last year by the Education
Departments of Bengal, Assam and Bihar & Orissa by way
of popularising it among the colleges within their respective
jurisdictions.

Thanks of the Society are also due to the Director-
General of the Archaeological Survey of India, and the
different archaeological eircles as well as the Government
Epigraphist for India for the interest they have shown by
subscribing to copies of the Society's Journal.

* + * * #* * 2 +

The enlightened governments of Their Highnesses the
Maharaja Gaekwad of Baroda, the Maharaja of Travancore,
the Maharaja of Mysore, the Maharaja Scindia of Gwalior as
well as the Maharaja Holkar of Indore have likewise deserved
the gratitude of the Greater India Society by making its
MISCELLANY 85

lournal available to the colleges, public libraries and

Archeeological Departments in their respective States.
= # * = a * a *

During the last half-year the Greater India Society has
had the opportunity of coming into close contact with a num-
ber of learned Societies both in and outside India. Among
these special mention may be made of the Madras Govern-
ment Museum (Madras), the Varendra Research Society
(Rajshahi), the Mythic Society (Bangalore), the Gesselschaft

fiir Ostasiatieche Kunst, (Berlin). J'Ecole Francaise
d'Extréme Orient (Hanoi), Koninklijk Bataviaasch Genoot-
schap van Kunsten en Wetenschappen, (Batavia), the
Chinese Acadamy of Buddhist Learning, (Nanking), the
Java Institute (Jogjakarta), all of which along with the
Editor, Indian Historical Quarterly have placed the Journal
of the Greater India Society on their exchange-list. The
Sino-Indian Institute (Peiping) has also signified its willing-

ness to co-operate with the Society.
* # * + * * * *

The Greater India Society welcomes the promising young
scholar, Dr. Bahadur Chand Chhabra of the Punjab, who has
just returned to india after taking his Doctorate Degree from
the University of Leiden. His thesia bearing the title the
‘Expansion. of Indo-Aryan Culture during the Pallava Rule’
has just been published in the Journal of the Asiatic Society,
Bengal.
Select Contents of Oriental Journals

Ostaslatizohe Zeltschrift, Nexe Folge, 10 Jahrg, 1-2, 3-4,
heft, 1934,

STEFAN Batazs.—Die Inschrifien der Sammlung Baron von
der Heydt (pp. 24-29 and 80-90)—Notice of eight inscrip-
tions dating mostly from the sixth or seventh century
and mostly belonging to the category of Buddhist sacred
steles,

Lupwic BacHHOFER.—Die Anjange der buddhistischen Plastik
in China: (pp. I-15 and 107-126}—Preface. J—The
Southern Route: India, Further India and South China.
l—The Northern Route: North India and Gandhara,
Central Asia, North China and‘South China: HI—Con-
clusion: The author concludes that the penetration of
Buddhism into China was a fact of extraordinary import-
ance as it brought the idea of the existence and value

of Plastic art into China.
U.N. G.

Bijdragen tot da Taal: Land- en Volkenkunde van
Nederlandsch-Indis, Deel 92, aflevering 2.

W. OF. STurrerHeim.—Oudheidkundige Aanteekeningen
(pp. 181-210}. In the course of these archeological
notes the writer draws attention to a sorely damaged
sculpture discovered at Singhasari, bearing an inacrip-
tion dated in the Saka year 1254. The female statue
flanked by Bhairava and Ganeéa figures is identified by
him with a Tantric aspect of Durga, while the same has
been eupposed by Dr. Bosch to represent a Buddhist
deity called Guhyegvarl. Another sculpture points to
the year 1049 as the time of king Erlangga’s death. The
much discussed term Vaprakeéeera, according to
Dr. Stutterheim, refere to a burial place of a ‘royal
personage.

B. ©. C.
SELECT CONTENTS OF ORIENTAL JOURNALS Bi
Djawa, Vol. XIV, No. I, 1934.

R. N& Dr. Porrsatjaraka EN Dr. G. Hooykaas.—Bhdrata-
yuddha (pp. 1-87). Introduction—The lineage of the
Bharatas—Analyeia of contents of fifty-two cantos, with
notes Index of proper names—Metres.

U.N. G.

Ibid., Vol. X1V, Nos. 2 and 3, 1934.

A. STEINMANN.—Enkele opmerkingen betreffende de Plant-
ornamenfen van Mantingan (pp. 89-97)—Gives with
illustrations botanical identifications of the plants depict-
ed on the panels and medallions of Ratoe Kalinjmat‘s
mausoleum at Mantingan, a place to the south of
Djapara recognising Hindu and Chinese elements in the
style.

o

Ibld., Nos. 4, 5 and 6, 1934.

W. PF. SrurrerRHeim.—De oudheden-collectie Resink-wilkens
te Jogjakarta (pp. 167-197)—A descriptive catalogue of a
private collection comprising a number of fine specimens
of images, both in stone and metal, and paja imple-
ments, belonging to Buddhism and Brahmanism.

B.C. Cc.

Tijdschrift voor Indische Taai- Land- sn Volkenkunde,
Decl LXAXIV, afeveringen 2-4, 1994.

W. F. Sturrerurim.—Een Vrij overzetpeer te Wanagiri
(M.N.) in 903 A.D. (pp. 269-295)—A duplicate set of
copper-plates has been discovered near Wanagiri
(Scerakarta) written in Mid-Javanese script. They con-
tain an order issued by Sri Maharaja Rake Watu Kura
Dyah Balitung Sti Dharmodayamahagambhu to the Raka
of Wélar to construct a ferry in the year 903 A.D. The
writer further discusses the titles and facts known from
several other inscriptions of the same king Balitung.
BOOKS RECEIVED

The Greater India Sociely acknowledges with thanks the

I7.
18.

19.
20).

receipt af the following baoks, periodicals, repe~'.,
pamphlets etc.

Ostasiatische Zeitschrift, Berlin; (Neue Folge—9 Jahre.
5 Heft 1933, 10th Jahre. | & 2 Heft 1934; ibid., 3 & 4
Heft: fbicd., 5 Heft).

Djawa, Jogjakarta: (I4e Jaargang No. |, Jan, 1934; ibid.,
Nos. 2 & 3, June 1934),

Bulletin de Ecole Fragaise d’Extréme-Orient, Hanoi:
Cronaca della Missione Scientifica Tucci nel Tibet
nacidentale (1934) By G. Tucci and E. Ghersi, Rome,
Die Inschrijften der Sammlung Baron von der Heydt: By
stefan Balazs, Berlin: (Reprint fram Ost. Zeit.).
Indian Historical Quarterly, Calcutta; (Vol. IX, Nos.
3 & 4, Vol. X, No. 4).
Bulletins aj the Madras Government Museum, Madras:
(a) Three main styles of tempie-architecture recog-
nized by ihe Silpagastras: By F. H. Gravely and
T. N. Ramachandran, ~ |
(b} Tiruparuitikunram and its temples: By T. N.
Ramachandran.

Buddha Prabha, Bambay, Vol. 2, No. 4, Vol. 3, No. 1.
Yoga, Bulsar, Val. 2, No. 12.

Religious Intercourse between Ceylan and Siam in the
[3th-i5th centuries. By 5S, Paranavitana, Colombo:
(Reprint from the Jaurnal of the Ceylan Branch RAS}.
Buddhism in a nut-shell; By Bhikkhu Narada, Bambala-
pittya,

Calumbia University Quarterly, New York, (September,
1934).

The Attack on Liberalism: By Murray Butler, New York
(Carnegie Endowment for International Peace}.
Aschavolony in Gwalior: By M. B. Garde, Gwalior,
1934,

A Guide to the Archacological Museum at Gwalior,
Department of Archxology, Gwalior.

Nos. | to 4 of the Journal published by the Chinese
Academy of Buddhist Learning, Nanking, China. [In
Chinese].

Annual Report of the Varendra Research Society for
1932-34, Rajshahi.

Quarterly Journal of the Mythic Society (Silver Jubilee
Number—July-October, 1934) Bangalore, January 1935.
Young Asia, Rome: (Vol. I, Na. 1, March 1934).
The Calas: By K. A. Nilakanta Sastri, Madras, (Madras
University Historical Series No. 9).
JOURHAL OF THE GHEATER IHDIA SOCIETY
SELECT OPINIONS OF SCHOLARS
Dri N, J. Krom (Leiden) :—

“TL have much pleasure in........... congratulating you
as the editor of so sound a volume containing new and
interesting information, May it be the first of a long series,
maintaining the same high standard,"

Dr, Georce Ceépes (Hanoi) :—

“| have read with much interest the first issue of the
Journal of the Greater India Society, which contains valuable
papers by prominent scholars............ "

Dr, G. Tucecl (Rome}:—

“Your Joumal is becoming one of the leading reviews.’
Dr, Lubwie BacHHoFeR (Munich) :—

“A careful study has proved the serious and surely
scientific character of the Journal.”

Dr, W. Perceval Yetts (London):— |

| have read with much pleasure and profit the
Journal............ i:

Dr. Water LIGBENTHAL (Peiping} :—

“T certainly appreciate the value of your purposes and
achievements. *

Dr. R. O. Winstept (Johore) :—

“Your excellent Journal."

S, ParanaviTana, Esa. (Colombe) :—

“TL have read the Journal with much interest and appre-
ciation. It serves a very useful purpose in that it brings the
results of the important researches carried on by the French
and Dutch savants to the notice of these students who cannot
read these contributions in the original French and German.’
Dr. A. J. Bennet Kempers (Voorburg}:—

‘The contents have’ greatly interested me..........:;
Dr. F. D. &. Boscu (Batavia) :—

TY peeeeatess the last issues of the Journal............contained
aoeehighly interesting things on the Archipelago, proving
to what extent Hindu-Javanese and Sumatran history and
archeeology may profit. in the future, from the experience
and knowledge of Indian scholars...........°7
49

cas
eH,

THE

JOURNAL OF THE GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

JULY: 1935

CONTENTS

Articles

Contributions from the Mahavamsa to our knowledge
of the Medimval Culture of Ceylon
By Dr. Wilh. Geiger, Ph.D.
Veda and Aveota i.
By Dr. Batakrishna Ghosh, Ph. D., D.Litt.
The Influx of Indian Sculpture into Fu-nan ...
By Dr. Ludwig Bachhofer, Ph.D.
A Sanskrit Manual of Tsonkhapist Warship ...
By Dr. E. Obermilfer, Ph.D.
The Old-Javanese Copper-Plates from Sidoteka
of the Saka Year [245
By Himansu Bhusan Sarkar, M.A.
Notices of Books
Baron A. von Staél-Holstein, On two recent recons-
fructions of a Sanskrit Hymn transliterated with
Chinese characters. Reviewed by Vidhushekhara
Bhattacharya

Baron A. von Staél- Holt On. a Peking Edition of

the Tibetan Kanjur. Reviewed by Vidhushekhara
Bhattacharya im wes Fs
M. Prijohoetoma, Natemer: Reviewed by B. G.
Midden-Cost Borneo Expeditie 1925. Reviewed
Giuseppe Tucci, indo-Tibetica, vol. Ill, Reviewed
by P. N. Roy

A. J. Bernet-Kempers, De Indische Cultunrstroom.

Reviewed by B. Ch. Chhabra
Miscellany
Obituary Notices
Gabriel Ferrand. By Kalidas Nag, M.A., D.Litt.
Loujs Finot. By Kalidas Nag, M.A., D.Litt.
Select Contents of Oriental Journals

Page

69

WZ
. 122

. 128

. 13)

a 16]
wee 162.

.. 163
.. 164

ww. 165
.. 168

.. 169
. 179
. 174
Ra

THE JOURNAL

OF THE

GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

———————

Vot. ij JULY: 1935 Mo, 2

Contributions from the Mahavamsa
to our Knowledge of the Mediaeval
Culture of Ceylon.

_By Dr. Wil. Geiger.

lt is easy to understand that the priestly compilers of
the Mahavamsa bad a bias to ecclesiastica)] things and
often omitted or suppressed facts which are of the greatest
interest to a modern reader. Nevertheless the Mahavemsa
‘s still our best and most reliable source for the knowledge
of Sinhalese history and civilisation. If we try to describe
the mediaeval period, we have to refer to the oldest
portion of the so-called Calavamsa—Mhws. 37, 51-79, 84. (Ci,
IHQ., V1, 1930, p. 206), This part of the chronicle covers
the whole period from the end of the fourth century A. C.
to the twelfth century A. C. and is composed by
Dhammakitti, The hero most highly praised by thc poet
is King Parakkamabahu | (1153-1186 A.C). The story of
his Kfe and deeds (chs. 62-79) forms more than a
half of Dhammakitti's compilation. The chapters 37 to 61
must be regarded as an ample introduction to the ''Epic
of Parakkama’” (Cf. Copleston, {RAS., Ceylon Branch,
XIN, no. 44 (1843), pp. 60sq. The era of Parakkama

represents the acme of tbe mediaeval civilisation of Ceylon
90 WILH. GEIGER

and what we have to say in the following pages chiefly
bears on thatera. The account of the chronicle referr ag
to it may be said to be fairly reliable since Dhammakitti
finished his work a short time after the king's death and
therefore knew things and events from his own experience.
What he relates in the first half of his compilation serves
as a supplement and sometimes elucidates the historical
developments. Errors and anachronisms may occur in
these chapters.

We must also not overlook the second part of the
Calavamsa (chs. 79, 65-90, 102; 1186-1333 A.C.) the favourite
hero of which is Parakkamabahu II (1225-1269 A. C.) so
that the whole mediaeval period of Sinhalese history extends
from about 362 to 1333 A.C. The author of this portion
of the chronicle and the exact date of its compilation are
unknown ; probably we have to assign it to the 14th or 15th
century. :

I need not add that the mediaeva! Sinhalese inscriptions
are of great importance as contemporaneous reports, which
often enable us to check and to supplement the statements
of the chronicle. On the other hand the sciondary Sinhalese
books like Pajdvaliya (13th century), Rajaratndkaraya
(16th century) and Rajavaliya are of comparatively little
value, as they have the character of extracts and attend
not much to general civilisation but chiefly to chronology
and church history.

{, THE KING AND THE ROYAL COURT
(!) The King and his family.

|. The form of Government in Ceylon was, as almost
everywhere in India, absolute. The king was the culmi-
nating point of the pyramid which represents the state,
and the centre of political life. What] have to say about
the position of the king and the royal family in mediaeval
Ceylon is partly extracted from and partly added to the
introduction of my translation of Cilavamsa 1, pp. xv sqq.
THE MEDIAEVAL CULTURE OF CEYLON 91

Besides the word rajan all the names and titles exiat
‘fag, the king which we meet with in the Sanskrit literature.
Some of them are somewhat bombastic and grandiose
for the ruler of a comparatively samail island like Ceylon.
He may not only be given the title ‘Great King’
‘(maharaja), but also “Ruler of the Kings’’ (rajadhiraja)
or “‘Lord of the earth’' (mahipati, etc.}, even if he has
never conguered any kingdom outside Lanka. Frequently
the king is styled deva ‘God’ as in Sanskrit. The title
approximately corresponds to our ‘Majesty’.

2. It is often emphasised in the Mahavamsa that the
kings of Ceylon are scions of the asnriya-camsea, the
Solar Dynasty. Vijaya, the first king, came according to
the tradition from Sihapura, the capital of Kalinga, and
was the son of king Srhabahu. .The royal dynasty of
Kalitga boasts of its ‘descent from the Solar line. Ratanavali,
the mother of Parakkamabahu I,” was a daughter of
the Kalinga princess Tilokasundari (Mhvs. 59.29) and is
called (63.11) an ornament of the Sun-dynasty (addiccanvaya).
Some of the Sinhalese kings sprang from the Lambakanna
clan, This was the case in ,ancient tines with King
Vasabha with his son and grandson (2nd century) and the
last five kings of the so-called Superior Dynasty (mahavamsa)
Sameghatissa, Samghabedhi and Gothakabhaya with his
two sons Jetthatissa and Mahasena (Mus. 35.59, 36.58 sq.).
In the mediaeval period Silakala was a Lambakanna
(Mhovs, 39. 44). It seems that this clan was a branch of
the royal family and {like it) of the Solar line. Mogallana,
the son of Dhatusena and afterwards (496-513 A.C.) king
of Ceylon, is expressly called {(Mhus. 39.46} a kinsman
(fataka) of Silakala. Other Sinhalese kings were scions
of the Moriya clan, as in the 5th century was Dhiatusena
(Miws. 38.13-35) the father of Kassapa | and Moggallana
], and in the 6th century was Mahanaga (41.69.70)
with his son Aggabodhi |, and grandson Aggabodhi Il.
This clan, too, probably belonged to the Solar race.
According to the Indian tradition Iksvaéku (P. Okkaka)
stands at the head of the Solar dynasty, but in the
92 WILH. GEIGER

Meahavamsa (2. 1 sq.) and other Buddhist sources many
kings are enumerated before Iksvaku. The first of the-.,
is Mahisammata. We understand therefore that in the
Mhvos, Okkaka is called the ancestor of some Sinhalese
kings and Mahasammata of others. It is said (Mhvs.
99.77) that at the time of KittisirirAjasiha in the second
half of the 18th century the chronicle contained the history
of all the kings from MahSsammata up to the rulers
residing in Hatthiselapura (now Kurundgala), ic, up to
the beginning of the [4th century. Manavamma, about
700, is called a descendant of Mahasammata ; Mahitigsa,
ruler of Rohana and father of king Dappula ! (7th century),
and Sahassamalla are called descendants of Okkaka
(Mhos. 47. 2; 45.38 ; 80. 32).

In their inscriptions Sinhalese kings often boast of their
descent from the Solar dynasty. Parakkamabahu I! says
in the Galvihara inscription that he has come in unbroken
succession from Mahasammata born of the Solar race
(Ed. Miiller, Ancient Inscriptions of Ceylon, no. 137, 1.5;
Epigraphia Zeylanica !1, p. 268°). King Mahinda IV (956-972
A.C.) says in the Mihintale tablets (AIC., no. 121 A,
Ep.Z. |. p.QIA'.) that his father Abhaya Salamevan. i.e.
Kassapa V is descended from an unbroken line of kings
of the OkkaAka family. The same descent is pretended
by Nissahka Malla (1187-1196 A. C.) in several inscriptions
and he calls himself a star on the forehead of the family of
the Sun (AIC., no. 145, 147, 148; Ep.Z. ll, p. 78', 1097 &e).

3. Inavery interesting paper published in the Ceylon
Journal of Science (section G. Il, p. 235 sq., 1933) 5. Para-
navitana has shown that matrilineal descent was often
decisive, at least at a certain period of time. Gajabahu
(1137-1153) is considered to belong to the Kalinga stock
(Kdlingagotta-sambhita-G°, Mavs. 63.8), though neither his
father nor his grandfather were scions of the Kalinga dynasty.
But his mother Sundari and his grandmother Tilokasundari
were Kalinga princesses. Parakkamabahu | himeelf cannot
trace his Solar descent on paternal side; for his father Mana-
bharana’ was the son of Vijayabahu's sister Mitta,! who had
THE MEDIAEVAL CULTURE OF CEYLON 93

married a Pandu prince of the Moon Dynasty, but belonged
héraelf to the Solar line as well as Parakkamabahu’s mother
Ratanavali (see above).

Sirivallabha after the death of his brother Mandbharana’
wishes to marry his and Ratandvali’s daughter Mitta"? to his
own son Manabharana* (Mhvos. 63.6 sq.}). But Ratanavali
refuses her consent, because Manabharana’® is of ariya-
vamsa and therefore not of equal birth. Paranavitana is
certainly right that this does not refer to the fact that
the wooer’s grandfather, the consort of Mitta’, was a
Pandu prince, for the Pandus belong to the Lunar line, the
scions of which were always considered to be of equal
birth with those of the Solar race (Mhus. 63. 14). But Sugala
the mother of the wooer, was the grand daughter of Lildvati,
the consort of Jagatipala whe had come from Northern India,
Ayodhya (Mhos. 56.13). He was probably a Rajpit. His
daughter Yasodhar& and Yasodhara’s daughter Sugala
belonged to the same caste. The Rajpitte are called Ariya
in Southern India, and here this name is applied to them by
no means with the same respect that they enjoy in their
own country. The ariya-vamsa was not believed to be equa!
to the suriya@ or soma-vamsa. Inspite of Ratanavali’s
opposition the marriage of Mitta* with Manabharana’®
was consummated.

We meet however at the same time also with patrilineal
instances. Thus Manabharana, the father of Parakka-
mabahu |, says: ‘‘We are sprung from the pure Moon-
dynasty” suddhe somavamsamhi abhijata mayam, (Mhos.
62.5}, apparently because his father was a Pandu.
Lilavati, Parakkamabahu I's queen, is called (Mhws. 80. 50)
an offapring of the Moon and Sun family {candadiccahulé-
dita). She was the daughter of Sirivallabha, Manabharana'’s
youngest brother, and belonged to the Solar line on the
maternal side by her grand-mother Mitta) and to the
Lunar race on the paternal side by her grand-father the
Pandu prince who was Mitta’s husband.

| have to adda few words about the differentiation of
a superior and an inferior dynasty (Mahdeamsa and
94 WILH. GEIGER

Cilavamsa) in Ceylon (Cf. Rajdvaliya, tr. by B. Gunasekara,
p. 52). The last king of the so-called superior dynasty was
Mahasena, the first one of the inferior dynasty Sirimegha-
vanna. But the latter was the son of the former and it
is nowhere said that he was not a !egitimate son. How
can we explain, therefore, the gap between the two
kings? I think that differentiation was a later invention
based ona false interpretation of the word Mahavamsa.
As the title of the epic, it does not mean the great dynasty
but simply ‘the great chronicle’, The more ancient name
ia according to the Tika (p. 1837,5021}) padyapadéru-
pvamsa which cannot be otherwise translated than aa ‘versi-
fied great chronicle’ and does certainly not allude to a
dynasty. In contradistinction to that name the later
portions of the work were often, but not always, called
Calavamsa 'the little chronicle’. The word vamsa, chronicle,
frequently occurs in the names of books, aa in dipavamsa
‘the chronicle of the !aland', thapavamea ‘the chronicle of the
thipas’, bodhivamsa ‘the chronicle of the Bodhi tree’, &c.

4. lt was believed that peculiar marks (lakkhanani}
were visible on the body of a prince who was to become a
great and mighty monarch. Kitti who afterwards conquered
the Colas and ruled Ceylon (1059-1114 A.C.) under the name
of Vijayabahu ! was, asa distinguished soothsayer stated
immediately after his birth, dhafaalakkhanasampenna
‘possessing bodily marks of future good fortune’ (Mhos,.
57.49). The same is said of his son Vikkamabahu whe
became king in the year 1116 after the short reign of his
uncle Jayabahu | (Mhos. 59.32}. Nay, the mother of a
future prominent king was furnished with such lakkhandni.
We are told (Mhus. 59.34 sq.) that onc day Vijayabahu who
was versed in signs (lakkhanatiniu) gazed on each of his
daughters born of Quecn Tilokasundari, but he perceived on
none of them except on Ratanavali the sign of the birth of
a son himself furmahed with auspicious marks. And he
kissed her and predicted: ‘this thy body shal! be the place
for the birth of a son who will surpass all former and future
monarchs in glorious qualities’. Ratanavali's son was Para-
THE MEDIAEVAL CULTURE OF CEYLON 95

kkamabahu |, and the days of his conception and his birth
wete distinguished by many extraordinary signs and marvell-
ous events. The house priest and the brahmanas after care-
fully observing all the marks on the hands and feet of the
new-born boy announced to the King and the Queen that
apart from the island of Lanka he would be able to unite
under one umbrella and to rule even the whole of Jambu-
dvipa (Mhus. 62. 12 sq., 37 sq.). The umbrella (P. chatta,
Sinh. sata} is the symbol of sovereignty, and the kings of
Ceylon when dating one of their inscriptions generally
reckon it from the year in which they ‘have raised the
umbrella’. Cf. tama sat langd safosvana havuruduychi

ane

in the sixteenth year after he raised langu = P. ladghiia)
the royal umbrella.’ (A IC. nos, 121A.°-*; Ep.Z. 1, p. GI
A*, 10th 0.) “5 _

5. The consecration of a new king, abhiseka, {moli-mat-
gaia) was a ceremony which used to be performed with great
pomp inthe most solemn manner. The things needful for
the ceremony are the royal ornaments, the diadem, the um-
brella and the throne (alambkdrakiritani chattasihadsanani
ca. Mbhos. 56.3);a pasdda, probably a hall ia mentioned
(ibid., 59.2) to have been erected for the purpose.

The abhiseka was performed when the government
of the new king appeared to be firmly established.
In connection with this rule sometimes a _ second
consecration took place after a great political success.
Parakkamabahu | was consecrated at the instance of the
dignitaries the first time when he ascended the throne
after king Gajabahu (Mhua. 71.28) though at that time hia
succession was opposed by his cousin Manabharana. A
second abhiscka was held in the most splendid form
after Manabharana’s death (Mhvs. 72.311 sq.}. Parakkama-
bahu I] (1236-1271 A. C.} was also consecrated twice, the
first time when he succeeded his father (Mhvs. 82. 2.}. The
second abhiseka took place when the king had already
abdicated, and an honorary ceremony was arranged by his
son Vijayabahu IV after the reconstruction of the capital
Pulatthinagara or Polonnaruva (Mhos. 89. 10). It is how-
96 WILH. GEIGER

ever remarkable that the coronation of Vijayabahu i
(1059-1114 A. C.} was held in Anuradhapura (Maus. 5°. 8)
after he had conquered the Colas, though he took up his
residence in Pulatthinagara (59. 10). At that time Anuradha-
pura was still considered as the sacred ancient capital of
the kingdom.

Mahinda I (724-727 A. C.), as an exception, never under-
went the abhiseka ceremony (Mhus. 48. 26 8q., 31). He
therefore did not accept the title king, but remained
ddipdda (Sinh. apd).

6. Inthe Mahavamsa-Tika, (Col. ed., pp. 213-14) there
is an interesting passage which contains a description of
the abhiscka. Since the work is certainly composed before
the middle of the 13th century (cf. Geiger, Dipavarnsa
und Mahavamsa, p. 37), its: author could have a knowledge
of the abhiscka, as it was performed in the mediaeval era,
and of the traditions connected with it. The ceremony
took place, we are told, in a hall constructed of wdumbara
wood (ficus glomerata). The khattiya who was to be
consecrated was sitting on a throne made of the same kind
of wood. First a maiden-of the warrior clan (khattya-
kaiiiia) took with both hands a marine shell which was
Alled with water from the Ganges river and the spiral of
which was winding to the right, poured water on the king's
head and said: "Oh Majesty. all the clans of the warrior
caste make thee for their own protection and security by
this consecration a consecrated king; rule thou with justice
and peace persisting in the law, be thou one who hasa
compassionate heart towards those of the warrior clans.
who are filled with sorrows about their sons and the like,
and one who' haga kind and peaceful and friendly heart,
and be thou guarded by their protection, defence and
ward.’’ Then the domestic chaplain (purehtita) of the
royal court, attired in his richest apparel, poured water on
the king's head from a ailver shell with the same words
only substituting ‘brahmana clans’ for = ‘warrior
clane’—finally the foreman of the guilds (Setthi)
in his official garb performed the same ceremony
THE MEDIAEVAL CULTURE OF CEYLON 97

for the householder clans (gahapali-gana), using a jewel
shell (ratana-sankha).

According to the Tika in the address of the three
persons a curse is implied: ‘‘If thou wilt rule in the
manner as we said, well,—but if thou dost not do ao,
thy head will split into seven pieces,”

As the Tika tells us in agreement with the
Mahdvamsa, the abhiseka was introduced in the second
half of the third century B. C., in the time of King
Devanampiyatisaa. He was the friend of King Asoka,
although they had never seen each other. Asoka sent
his friend all the things needful for the ceremony (cf.
Mhos. 11. 28-36) and entreated him to perform it in the
manner which was customary in India. The Sinhalese
kings were consecrated: ‘even before that time, but the
ceremony was simple and unpretentious. The ancient
kings, asitis said in the’Tika, only reigned with a new
aceptre (kevalam navayatthiyad rajjam karesum). Devanam-
piyatissa himself was first consecrated in this manner, but
his second consecration took place according to the more
solemn rite. The historical kernel of the whole tradition
may be the fact that the mediaeval abhiscka in Ceylon
was an imitation of the Indian ceremony.

7. The new king often or perhaps regularly adopted
a new name when he ascended the throne. Dathasiva
(7th cent.) calls himself Dathopatissa (Mhvs. 44. 128),
Hatthadatha assumes the same name (45.22). Kitti's name
after the accession to the throne is Vijayabahu (58.1). It is
said (54,10) that King Mahinda IV (956-72 A. C.) had two
sons. Their names were (54. 57-58) Sena and Udaya,
Sena V, Mahinda’s successor, made his brother Udaya
yuvardja, But in 55.1 Sena’s brother and successor is called
Mahinda. | believe that this was the name adopted by
Udaya when he ascended the throne. Mahinda V's son was
Kasaapa (55.23). When he came to the throne, the Sihalas
gave him the name of Vikkamabahu (56.1), Even in
ancient times Gothabhaya (4th cent. A. C.) assumed the
name Meghavannabhaya (36.98), The surname Sirisamgha-
98 WILH. GEIGER

bodhi was for the first time assumed by Aggabochi
IN] (7th cent.) (44. 83), no doubt in honour of the pious
king of the Lambakanna clan bearing this name who lived
in the 4th cent. A.D. As Aggabodhi’s predecessor
waa Silimeghavanna, in the sequel these two epithets
were used alternatively so that when a king bears the
surname Sirisamghabodhi. his successor calls himself
Silaimeghavanna and conversely (Wickremasinghe, Ep. Z. il,
p. 9). In inscriptions the kings often mention only their
surname so that the dating becomes sometimes difficult,
as so many Sirisamghabodhis and Silameghavannas exist
in the list of the Sinhalese kings.

8. The title of the king's consort was mahest (5k,
mahisi, Sinh. mehesfya), and she was addressed devi,
In the abhiseka ceremony the queen acted an important
réle, nay it seems that since ancient times the existence
of a mahesi is presupposed in the ceremony. Already
Vijaya is said to have declined the abhiseka without a
khattiyakannd as mahesi (Mhvos, 7. 47). But it was the
king himself who, probably after his own consecration,
consecrated the queen. The phrase is always like this:
Seno Samgham mahesitie {mahesibhdve)  abhisecayi
{abhisifici, fthapesi) (Mhos. 51. 6, 59. 25, etc.}. There were,
as a rule, in the mediaeval period two mahesis (cf. A. M.
Hocart, C. J. Sc. 1. 205, I. 34). This seems to have been an
ancient custom. Anuladevi and Somadevi were the queens
of King Vattagdmani (Ist cent. B. C.) (Mhvs, 33. 45-46),
The two queens of Vijayabahu | (1059-IIT14 A. C.}
were Lildvati’ and Tilokasundarr (59. 25, 29}, those of
Parakkamabahu I|—Ripavati and Lilavati?. The former
was the daughter of his paternal uncle Kittisirimegha
(Mhos. 73. 1368q., the note | in my Cilavamea tr. I], p. [7
is wrong), the latter of his other uncle Sirivallabha (80. 31).
Nissatka Malla mentions in one of his inscriptions as his
aggamahesi the Kalinga princess Subhadra, in the Galpota
two aggama@hesis Subhadraé and Kalyana of the Ganga-
vamsa (A/IC., nos. 145, 148 B. 2-3; Ep. Z. Il, p. 106, B®}

Rulers of Rohana who never became kings of Lanka aleo
THE MEDIAEVAL CULTURE OF CEYLON 99

seem to have had two queens. Those of the younger
Mansbharana’ were Mitts and Pabhavati, the sisters of
Parakkamsbahu |. They are however not called mahesi,
but simply dev? and dutiyd devt (Mhus. 64.19, 24): the
tittle mahesi apparently depends on the solemn conse-
eration.

From the title aggamahesi (highest mahesi’) we msy infer
that there was a difference of rsnk between the two queens.
and this will indeed have been the csse in ancient times.
But we hsve seen that already at the time of Nissanka
Malla both queens bore the title aggamahesi, and Csndavati.
Parakkamabahu I's widow, cslls herself in an inscription
(Ep. Z. ll. 241") dutiyam aggatam gata, who has attained
to the position of the second agga (mahesi). Concerning
Narindasiha and Vijayarajasiha (18th century) the chronicle
tells us that they brought royal princesses from Madhura
and msde them highest mshesis (kalvad aggamahesiyo,
Mhws. 97. 24, 98. 4).

9. Itis a matter of course that for the king's marrisge
political considerations were never neglected and often
became decisive. According to the tradition in Mavs.
7.48 sqq.. the first king of Ceylon fetched the daughter
of the Péndu king from Madhura to consecrate her as his
queen. The Pandya kingdom is nesrly co-extensive with
the present districts of Madura snd Tinnevelly in Southern-
most India (V. A. Smith, Early History of India, p. 335),
separated from Ceylon by the Gulf of Mannar. Political
relations between the Sinhalese and the Pandus are,
therefore, well intelligible, The Pandus were often the
adversaries of the Sinhalese, invading the island and
pillaging towns and villages (Mhws. 50.!2 sq., 51. 27 sq.,
9th cent.) or they were assisted by the Sinhalese in wars
against the Colas (52.70 sq.. 10th cent.. 76. 76 sq, [2th
cent.). But we hear little of intermarriage between the
two dynasties in the mediaeval cra. Vijayabahu | first
gave his sister Mitta’ away in marriage to a Pandu
prince. He seems to have resided in Ceylon; the
three sons of the wedded couple were living in Rohana
160 WILH. GEIGER

{v. above). More frequent becomes the union of the
Sinhalese royal family with the Pandu line in modern times.
Rajasiha |) (1635-87 A. C.} is said to have fetched kings’
daughters from Madhura to Ceylon (Mavs. 96. 40) probably
as wives for his dignitaries. Vimaladhammasuriya II] {1687-
1707) made a Pande princess his consort (97.2}, and the same
is related concerning his twe successors Narindasiha and
Vijayarajasiha (vp. above 8).

The relations with the royal family of Kalinga are of
greater importance. Vijaya's grandmother was a Kalinga
princess, and the capital of Kalinga, Sihapura. was founded
by his father Silhabahu (Mhus-. 6. } 6q.}. Ratanavali, who
herself is called a Kalihgi. says "After the prince,
named Vijaya, had slain all the Yakkhas and made this
island of Lanka habitable for men, since then one has
allied the family of Vijaya with ours by union with
scions of the Kalinga line already in former times’’
(63. 12-13). And her cousin Sirivallabha says: Princes
of the Kalinga dynasty have many times and oft attained
ta dominion in this island of Lanka (63.7). Mahinda IV
(956-972 A.C.) had as mahest a Kalinga princess named
Kitt: and founded thus the royal house of the Sihalas.
Two sons were horn of her, Sena and Udaya. Both
became kings after him (54.9-10,50,57; 55. 1: cf. 7).
We have scen above that Vijayabahu I's consert and
Vikkamabahu II's consort were Kalitgis; Gajabahu is
called (63.8) an offspring of the Kalinga line. Nissanka
Malla and Magha (1211-1235 A. C.) were Kalingas (80.58).

Often anew king marries the widow of his predecensar.
Such marriages too have generally political reasons. The
new king wishes to prevent the forming of an oppo-
sition at court. Already Vattagainani’s first  maheai
Anula had been the wife of his brother Khallataniga
(33.36). In mediaeval times Mahinda Il (772-792 A.C.)
matried the queen of his predecessor Aggahodhi VII.
She was an outrageous woman. and he made her his
consort merely to keep her under his control. or as the
Mahdvamsa (48, 113) says, bacause she could neither be
THE MEDIAEVAL CULTURE OF CEYLON 101

set free nor slain (paricattum ca méretum na sakka@' yam).
Mahinda V (981-!017 A.C.) also made the widow of his
elder brother and predecessor Sena V his mahesi and
when she died, shortly after he married her daughter
(Mhus. 55.8-9). The atory of Mahanama (beginning of the
5th cent.) is somewhat different. The consort of his elder
brother Upatissa had murdered her husband out of
amorous passion for the younger brother Mehanama and
became his queen when he ascended the throne
(37.209 sq.)

10. Asto the right of succession ! refer to what | have
said in Calavamsa tr. 1, p. xx-xxi. The succession is ex-
clusively in the paternal line. After the death of Vijaya-
bahu | his younger brother Jayabahu became king in the
year !1!4. This accession was undisputed, but presently
the eldest son of- Jayabahu's sister’ claimed to be the
heir to the throne. As the Maus. 61. 4 adds, thereby the
path of former custom was quitted, for the prior right of
succession was on the side of Vijayabahu's son Vikkama-
bahu who indeed ascended the throne after Jayabahu’s
premature death and maintained it in the war with Mana-
bharana and his two brothers.

When a king died, not his son but ‘the next
younger brother succeeded him on the throne. Only
when no other brother existed did the crown passto the
next generation, and here again to the eldest son of the
eldest brother of the preceding generation.”

A genealogical table describing the sequence of
Manavamma’s sons and grandsons in the &th cent.
Wustrates this custom !—

l. Manavamma
He.

2. Aggabodhi V 3. Kaseapa Ill 4, Mahinda I
(no aon} 5. Aggabodhi V1 6. Aggabodhi VII

7. Mahinda I
There are frequent instances of such a sequence.

Sena 1 (851-885 A.C.) had three younger brothers. The
102 WILH, GEIGER

eldest of them Mahinda died before him.  Sena's
successor is, therefore, {I) the next brother Udaye Il and
then (2) Kassapa IV. After Kassapa’s death the next
generation takes its turn, First succeed the sons of Sena
according to their age: (3) Kassapa V.{4) Dappula Ill,
(5) Dappula IV, and after them the sons of Mahinda: (6)
Udeya Ill, (7) Sena Ill, and (probably} (8} Udeya IV.
Sena's youngest brothers Udaya [| and Kassapa IV
seem to have left no legitimate heirs, ot their offspring
have become extinct in the meantime. Thus after Udaya
IV's death the sons of Kassapa V. (9) Sena IV and (10)
Mahinda IV, come to the throne. It must be added
that with regard to Kassapa V and Sena IV it is expressly
stated im the Mhus. 52.37, 54.1 that they became kings in
regular succession (kama@gata}, that is according to the
existing law, )

Deviations sometimes occur from the regular sequence.
At the beginning of the 9th century three brothers were
reigning, one after the other in regular succession:
Mahinda Ill, Aggabodh VII, Dappula Il. Now Mahinda’s
likenamed son was by right. heir to the throne, but
Dappula wished to reserve the royal dignity to his own son
(Mhus. 49.84). This was a breach of the law. The young
Mahinda betook himself. full of resentment, to India.
He was afterwards killed by agents of King Sena I, the
second son of Dappula (50.4).

ll. The education of the princes (rdjapuita), and chiefly
of the heir to the throne, included training in sports and
practice of arms as well as mental development. We
are told (Mhws. 64.2 sq.) that the young Prince Parakkama-
bahu was instructed not only in the art of driving the
elephant and in the lore of manipulation of the bow,
the sword and other weapons, but also in dance and
song. Moreover he studied the sacred books of the
Buddhist faith, and the works on politics {niti}) as that of
Kotalla (i, ¢. Kautalya’s Arthagastra}. Grammar (saddattha),
poetry {kaéveyya), knowledge of the vocabularies (nighandu}
and of the ritual (kefubha) were also objects of his educa-
THE MEDIAEVAL CULTURE OF CEYLON 103

tion. This system is in conformity with the ideal of
princely education in India. We do not know, however,
whether or not it was applied in full measure to Parakkama-
bahu. But the compiler of the chronicle who was well-
versed in Indian literature wishes to adorn his favourite
hero with all the virtues of a prominent king.

12. The title of the royal princes was adipada, that is
one who has the first post, who marches in front. It is
remarkable that the title ia not met with in the old Maha-
vamsa nor in the most modern portions of the chronicle
after chapter 79, It is confined to the part compiled
by Dhammakitti and it therefore belongs to the mediaeval
period exclusively. The word first occurs in the 6th cent.
Silakala (Mfus. 4|. 33-35) bestowed the rank of ddipada
onhis eldest son Moggallana’and handed over to him
the Eastern Province (piratihimadesa}. lt seems that
at this time adipdda was the same as heir to the throne.
But already under Udaya [| (792-97 A.C), probably even
earlier, all the royal princes were called ddipdda (49.3) and
the title frequently is joined to the name, like Udayo
adipado, Kittaggabodhiti adipsdo (‘Prince Udaya', ‘Prince
Kittaggabedhi’, ete.) (50. 8,51. 94). Kitti, afterwards King
Vijayabahu |, in his fifteenth year girt on his sword and
demanded the title of ddipdda (57.61), thereby laying claim
to the succession.

Now to make a distinction, the presumptive heir to the
throne among the royal princes ia styled Mahddipdda.
The first prince who is called ao in the chronicle is
Ratanadatha (MAvs. 44. 136), the sister's son of Dathopatissa
who belonged to a collateral line. He is probably
identical with Hatthadatha who afterwards became king
(45. 21) and publicly took the name DaAthopatissa II,
(650-58 A. C.). Later on Mahinda, the next younger
brother of King Sena | (831-51 A.C.) is styled mahadi-
pada, and after his suicide in war (50, 21-23), and after
the death of the next brother Kassapa (50. 46), the title
passes to the youngest brother Udaya (50. 44). But he
too died from illness, and as neither the king nor Mahinda
104 WILH. GEIGER

had a son, Sena, the son of Kassapa, was Mahddipade and
ascended the throne (50, 49, 51.1), after his uncle's decease,
as Sena il.

The titles ddipdéda or mahadipada drop with the abhiseka
(Mhus. 58.7). Vijayabahu is called mahadipada but king in
the next verse. We have to assume that between the
events narrated in v. 7 (first conquest of the Colas}
and those told from v. § onwards (message to Ramafiiia)
the abhiseka had taken place. Thia was his first coronation;
the feast described in Mhvus. 59.8 (see above 5) waa
apparently his second abhiseka after the definitive con-
guest of the Colas,

13. As heir to the throne the Mahédipada is also called
Yuvaraja, the young king. Both the titles alternate.
Mahinda, the brother of King Sena 1, is namad Yuvardja in
Mhos. 50.7 and mahadipade in 50,10 from the second half of
the 6th cent. onwarda, the Southern Province (dakkhinadesa)
was the Yuvardja’s province and residence, that is (vide Co-
drington, /RAS. Ceylon Br. no. 75, 1922, p. 63 sq.) the whole
country between the Kala Cya in the North arld the Kalu-
ganga in the South, and between the central mountains
in the East and the sea-coast in the West, corresponding
in the main to the present West and North-West provinces.
King Silakala (524-537 A. C.) handed over the Eastern’
Province (uratihimadesa) to the yuvaraja; Aggabodhi |
(568-601 A.C.) was the first who conferred the Southern
Province on his brother the ddipada Dathapabhuti who was
his presumptive successor (41.33; 42.8}. Dathapabhuti's
death is related in 42.37, Asthe king had no other brother
nor a legitimate son, he now conferred the dignity of Maha-
dipada and Yuvardja, no doubt along with the Southern
Province, on his nephew Aggabodhi who afterwards became
his successor. Dakkhinadesa was the Yuvaraja's domain
for many centuries {c/. Mhus. 50. 44, 49; 51.19, etc.)
Parakkamabahu himself was residing there before ascending
the throne in Pulatthinagara.

We must, however, notice the fact that a prince did
not become Mahédipada or Yuvardja simply by right, but
THE MEDIAEVAL CULTURE OF CEYLON 05

he was invested with the dignity by the king in a solemn
manner. The expressions in the chronicles are “‘the king
gave the Adipdda so and so the post of Mahadipdda or
Yuvardja, made him M. or Y., and the like" (mahadipadatiam
datva or yuvarajatte thapesi, akd ynvardiam, etc.) We learn
from Mbhws. 67.91 that the dignity of the heir-apparent was
marked by a frontlet which was put on probably in a
festival ceremony which took place after the king's abhischa.

14. Another princely title is Upardja ‘sub-king’ ‘co-
regent’: the dignity of an upardja is oparajja, uparajja. The
title has an interesting history. The word is much older than
yuvaraja. It frequently occurs in the canonical Pali literature,
and also in the most ancient portion of the Mahdvamsa.
Generally the eldest son of a king is upardia (Anguttara
Nikaya Ill, 154'*), the uparaja is the heir to the throne.
Vijaya is said to be the eldest son and uparaja of king
Sihabahu (Mhus. 6.38); Panduvasudeva, the second king of
Ceylon makes his eldest son Abhaya upardja (9.12, 14).
The first instance of the peculiar law of succession in
Ceylon is met with at the time of Devanampiyatissa,
(3rd cent. B. C.}. His upardjais hia next younger brother
Mahanaga (14.56) who afterwards sought refuge in Rohana
from the ambuscades of the queen who coveted the
kingship for her own son. The queen did not carry her
point. Devanampiyatissa was succeeded by his brothers.

A. We pass now to the mediaeval times in Ceylon.
The word upardja first occurs here in the 6th century (Mahuva.
41.70,93}, The Moriya king Mahanaga (556-555) made
his cousin (mdfulaputta, son of the mother's brother)
Aggabodhi upardja. He was however not the heir-appar-
ent, but the sister's son became his successor (42.4) who
bore like the cousin the name Aggabodhi. King Aggabodhi
| himself, who (after an interregnum?) ascended the
throne in the year 568, conferred the dignity of uparaja on
hia mother's brother, that of yuvardia on his younger
brother (42.6). We cledrly see that in the oldest
mediaeval period when the term yuvardja came into use
there was a difference between his position and that of

3
106 WILH. GEIGER

the uparaja. The yuvardja was the heir to the throne,
the dignity of the upardja is a position of trust. He was
the king's first counsellor.

B, But soon, at least already in the 7th century, a new
custom waa established in a period of great political
troubles. The dignity of upardja is now regularly con-
ferred on the yuvardja or mahddipada. Thus the ancient
custom is adapted to the Sinhalese Jaw of succession. The
heir-apparent, not the eldest son exclusively, becomes
upardja, The investiture is a solemn act; the king himself
consecrates the upardja as he consecrates the queen. The
phraseology is now oparajje ‘bhisecayi and the like (Mhos.
44. 84; 48. 42, 69; 5). 7, 12), whilat in the former period the
chronicler had used the expression, to make uparaja or to
place in the upardja's position (41. 93; 42.6}. King Aggabodhi
Ill (626.641) consecrates his younger brother as upardja
(44.84); he is afterwards (44.123) called yuvaraja. We hear
in 46. 40 that after AggabodhilV's death (674 A. C.} an
usurper seized the person of the upardja Dathasiva and had
him thrown inte .prison, Apparently the upardja was
the legitimate heir to the ‘throne, .that is the yuvardja.
Aggabodhi VII (766-772) consecrates as upardja hia son
Mahinda (48.69); he is called yuvardja in vy. 75. In a
similar manner in the 9th cent. the nephew of Sena |
is given the title mahddipada (50, 49; 51.1) and upardja
(50. 58, 59}, and Sena JI's brother Mahinda the title
yuvardja (51.13,15,53} and upardja (51, 7, 94}.

C. The result of the evolution is that the titles yuvardja
and uparaja became nearly synonymous, and inthe !Oth
cent. they simply alternate Jike the surnames Silamegha-
vanna and Sirizamghabodhi. We have the following
uninterrupted sequence !

yuvaraja Dappula IIE makes Dappula [Vo uparaje (53-1),

uparija Dappula IV n Udeya Ill puvardaja (53 4),
vuvarija Udaya Il " Sena ttl = uparaja (53-13),
upardja = Sena I] n Udaya IV yuveraja (53-28),
puveraja Udaya IV " Sena IVooupardja (53-39,
upargje Sena Iv " Mahinda IV yuveraja (54:1).
(yuveraja} Mahinda lV a Sena Vsuparayza),
Lperdja Sena V i Udaya ... yuverdja (54-58).
THE MEDIAEVAL CULTURE OF CEYLON 107

Now the sequence is interrupted. Udaya becomes king
and assumes the name Mahinda (V). But he is conquered by
the Colas and sent as prisoner to India, His son Kassapa
who would have been upardja reigned twelve years under
the title of Vikkamabahu |, But after his premature death
(1041 A.C.) new troubles began and a series of irregular
successions and wsurpations was followed up to Vija-
yabahu |, who ascended the throne in the year 1059 A.C.

D. In later times only traces exist of the former use of
the title uperdja. Vijayabahu | was yuvaraya (Mavs. 58.1):
he appointed as upardja his next younger brother Virabahu
and after his death the second brother Jayabahu (59.11;
60,86-88). But Jayabahu is called (61.3) yuvardja, and Mana-
bharana pretends to the position of upardja (61.4) and is
called mahddipdda. After Jayabahu’s decease the king-
dom becomes disunited. The northern portion of Ceylon
ig rulecl by Vijayabahu's son Vikkamabahu and subsequently
by his grandson Gajabahu. Dakkhinadesa and Rohana
are in possession of Vijayabahu's nephews, the three
brothers Manabharana, Kittisirimegha and _ Sirivallabha.
They too call themselves kings. The terms yuvardaja, upardja,
mahadipdda become disused, Prince Parakkamabahu
is styled kumdra and afterwarda ‘king when he has got the
sovereignty in Dakkhinadesa and later on in the whole of
Ceylon. Strange enough in the 18th cent. the twe brothers
of King Kittisirirajasia are both called uparaja (99.85, 124).
The title had apparently lost in worth.

15. The last title we have to discuss is malayardja.
Malaya wag the name of the mountainous country in the
centre of the island between Rijarattha and the provinces
depending thereon in the North and Dakkhinadesa and
Reohana in the South. We might assume, therefore, that
the malayaraja was the governor of this province. It
seems, however, that this was not always the case,
King Silakala conferred the title of malayerdja on his
second son Dathapabhuti, but gave him the province of
Dakkhinadesa (AfAvs. 41.35). Aggabodm | (568-601) made
his sister's son mealayaraja (42.6), and Kassapa V (913-923)
88 WTLH. GEIGER

his son Siddhattha, born of his consort Rajini who however
was not his mahesi. Siddhattha seems to have actually
reigned over the province (52.68). At the time of
Aggabodhi IV (658-674) a malayardja Bodhitissa is
mentioned (46, 29. 30), but we do not know how he was
related to the king's family.

It is indeed doubtful whether or not the title was
confined to royal princes, A change may parhaps have
taken place in process of time. Moggallana III, who
with the help of a treacherous general dethroned king
Samghatissa in the year 611, conferred the dignity of
malayardja on his accomplice (44.43). But Moggallana
Was a usurper and his action perhaps unlawful. However
at the time of King Sena Ill (937-945 A. C.) the
malayardia Aggabodhi is called a@meacca. minister, not
prince (53.36). Parakkamabahu's malayardja was the Com-
mander of the Damila mercenaries in‘the district Rattakara
of Dakkhinadesa (69.6), and the malayarayera is also
mentioned as a general in the war with Gajabahu (70.62, 155).

l6. | have to add a few words about the princely titles
occurring in the mediaeval Sinhalese inscriptions. It is
strange that the title upardja is never met with. The
king is generally called maharaj, ‘rad; to ddipada,
prince, corresponds dpa, to mahddipada {or mahanada),
prince royal, mahapd or mapa. Instead of mahddipada
frequently dpa mahaya is used. Dappula IV and Mahinda
IY (10th cent.) had this title ere they ascended the throne
(Ep. Z. 1. 25%, 9la*, 2217). The word mahaya is hardly
the same as mahddipada (Ep. Z. 111.82), though in an
inscription of Mahinda IV ayipaya maha-paya is used for
apa mahayd, (Ep. Z. 1. 234") and in Ep. Z. Il. 114 C!’ apa
mahapd. As apa shows the p is preserved in the joint of
the compound, and mahayad seems to be the nominal
form of the adj. maha and to mean the great man (Cf.
Wickremasinghe, Ep. Z. |. 26, n. 4). Uda, i. ¢., Udaya III
(Il) is (Ep. Z. |. 1867) the son of Mihind mahaya, because
Mahinda was legitimate heir-apparent of Sena II (85[-885
A.C.) but died before the king. Udaya himself is also
THE MEDIAEVAL CULTURE OF CEYLON 109

called mahaya, because he was heir to the throne, before
he became king after Dappula IV (V) but his son Kitagbo
ia merely titled dpa, C/. 4. s. Ff.

The title yuvaraja (yuva-rad) ia identical with mahayd,
Udaya III ia ap& yuvarad immediately after his birth. The
phrase used in the Puliyankulam inscription (Ep. Z. |. 186")
dung stinghi me apd yuvarad bisev tand pamdnd ‘having
attained to the position of a prince heir-apparent in the
moment of his birth’ corresponda to the phrase (Ep. Z. |.
9] A?) in the Mihintale tableta where Mahinda IV is called
dpa mahaya. The expression juparaj occura also in the same
connection in an inscription of King Kassapa V (Ep. Z.)
1.46").

The tithe malayardja does not occur in the macriptiona.

7. Princesses wear the title rajini. This implies a lower
dignity than the tite devi ‘which is due to the consort
of a king. Mitta, the sister of Vijayabahu and consort of
Panduraja, is called rajini (Mhwus. 59.41, 62.1), but her grand-
daughter Mitta, the daughter. of Manabharana and later on
consort of her cousin who was also named Manabharana, is
styled devi (64. 19), for her father and hia brothera claimed
the royal dignity. The younger Manabharana, Mitta's
huaband, ia always styled king. It ia remarkable that Udaya
|] conferred the title rajini on his daughters (Mhes. 49.3), From
thia time onwards the difference of the titlea rajini and
devi seems to have been established. King Sena 1 (831-851
A.D.) assigned the rank of rajint to Samgha, the daughter
of Kittaggabodhi, the ruler of Rohana, acknowledging
her thereby as royal princess (50. 58). Mahinda IV made
his son Gdipdda and his daughter rdajini: thus the Ruler
founded the royal house of the Sihalas (54. II}. The
princess Yasodharaé, the daughter of Vijayabahu |, was
made rajint by her father (60.83-54). It is of intereat to
earn that the princesaea did not receive the title by birth
but in a solemn ceremony performed by the king.

18. The law regulating the succession was based. as
| said in paragraph 10, on paternal relationship. But we
have also seen in paragraph 3 that tn mediaeval Ceylon
110 WILH. GEIGER

the patriarchal system was sometimes crossed by remains
of an older matriarchalism. ‘This fact is also observable
in the part which the sister's son, the bhdgineyya, plays
inthe family circle, He has always a prominent position.
Dappula LF (FI} (9th cent.) gives his sister's son Kittagga-
bodhi his daughter Devi to wile. and Sittaggabodhi be-
comes ruler of Rohana (Mhes. 49. 71). King Vikkamabfhu
Il. after having heard that his sister Ratanavali has
berne to Manabharana a son with most auspicious signs,
wishes to educate the young prince Parakkamabahu at
his court, because he regards him as superior to his own
son Gajabahu but Manabharana refuses to send the boy
to Pulatthinagara (62. 54 sg.). Parakkamabahu II (f 153-1186}
made his eisters sen Virabahu Commander of the
Sinhalese army to conquer the Javakas who had invaded
the island, and after his victory Virabahu was always
put on a footing of equality with the king’s own sons (83. 4]
sq , 87.15 sq., 39 8q., 88.5 sq.). It was the custom. | think,
that whenever no heit existed according to the regular
law of succession, the bhagineyya ,had the title to the
mahadipada dignity. Thus Aggabodhi 1 is succeeded
in the year 601 by hia sister's son Ageabodhi fl. His
younger biother Déathapabhuti who formerly was
yuvardja had died before the king (Mhus. 42.37).
Dathopatissa |’s presumptive successor was his sister's son
Hatthadatha (44.154) who indeed later on {650 A. C.)
ascended the throne and took the namc Dathopatissa
(45. 21-22). Kassapa Il (641-650 A.C.) had many sons.
but they were children without much sense (bala vigata-
buddhing, 45. 6). He therefore sent for his clever
bhagineyya Mana who was living in Rehana and trans-
ferred to him the whole Government. After his death
Mana crowned his father Dappula (45. [6). We understand
the conflict between the descendants of Vijayabahu [
best as a conflict between the patriarchal and the
matriarchal systems. The three brothers Manabharana,
Kittisirinmegha and = Sirivallabhas were Vijayabahu’s
bhagineyya, the sons of his sister Mitta. Afler the king's
THE MEDIAEVAL CULTURE OF CEYI_ON WW]

death they did not object to the succession of his younger
brother Jayabahu who actually was a puppet king.
But after him and before Vijayabahu's son Vikkamabahu,
i.e., before the next generation. they claimed the kingship
for themselves by appointing Manabharana to the dignity of
upardja. Vikkamabahu however frustrated their plans by
eceupying the capital Pulatthinagara and defeating the
brothers in battle (MhAus. 61. 1 sq.}. We know that finally the
collateral line of the bhagineyyas came to the throne with
Parakkamabahu, Manabharana's son, the greatest king of
mediaeval Ceylon.

To be continued
Veda and Avesta

By Dr. Batakrishna Ghosh

[

The varicus branches of the original [ndu-Muropeaa
gaye rise tu unmerots independent dialecis already in
prehistoric times, Dut all of these branches are uot
equally autonomona from the view point of comparative
graminar, for almost each of them has apecial relatious
either with the original Indo-European or with other Indo-
European dialects. It is qnite certain that the various
Indo-European tribes branched off from the original stock
at different times. Some linguists are inclined to believe
that the forefathers of the Hittites were the first to branch
off from the original stock, or rather that Hittite and the
original Indo-Europeau are branches of a still older
Grundsprache. According to this view Hittite would not
be a sister dialect of Sanskrit and Greek hut an annt to
them, The other Indo-European dialects known to us
may he regarded as sisters of the same pareutage, but u
few paira of twins can be clearly distinguished among
these sistor dialects. Thus ihe Italie and the Celtic
branches represent eve pair of such twins just as the
Baltic and Slavic branches represent another, These pairs
have not only retained all the essential features of the
original Indo-Enropean bnt each of them is further
characterised by a series of special common linguistic inno-
yations. It is these special common linguistic innovations
voknown to the original Indo-European which reveal the
twinship of particular pairs of Indo-Kurepeau dialects.
The particular pair of twins with which we are concern-
ed inthe present paper ia that constituted by the Indiv’
and the Irauian branches of the original Indo-European.
VEDA AND AVESTA 113

The explanation of common linguistic innovations in
two particular Indo-European dialects is quite oblvions,
We have to assume that the original speakers of these
languages used to live togother for sometime even afler
they had detached themselves from tho main body of Inilo-
Vuropeans, and, what is more, that they used to apeak one
language during that period, Thus it is nuiversally recog-
nisod that there was a time when the forefathers of the
Iranians anil iho Vedie Aryans used io live together and
speak u common language. That they lived together for
apretty longtime and were meimbera of the same soctely
is conclusively proved by the remarkable cultural affini-
ties between ihese iwo peoples, which cannot fail to
strike any one whohas ever looked inio the Veda sani
{he Avesta, Tho important religions reformation ttro-
duced by Aoroaster lent a highly spiritual aspect to the
ol Iranian religion, but still the substratum of an older
culiure, almost identical with that of the Veda, is un-
pistakable in the Avesia, and, what is more, beth the
Veda and the Avesta seem io breathe the same spirit.

yeu more striking, if possible, are the Huguistic alfini-
aes between the alder literatures of India and Tran, It lias
been often said—and it is hardly an exaggeratioun—that
the Avestan language stands closer to Vedic than the
elassienl] Sanskrit of Kflidisa, ‘The difference helween
Avestan and Velie is in fact not grenter than that heiween
some of the Greek dialecls known from inscriplicns und
the struciures of the two laugnayes are po similar thiut un
Avesiun senience can offen ho translated into Yelle
simply by upplying lo cach werd the phonetic laws of
Vediv. Thus the Avesta pnassnge ¥, 10. 8:

WO Yipes pugedne te wpenane haoman vaudadla -aasys

fea abyt lanubgé haomea visails batiasdé
is equivulent to Vedie:

yo yathd putrane liranaim sown vdadela nactyak

pra ibhyas tanibhyah souo visate bhesajaya.

Here only in the last word do we find a difleronce of
form, in all other cases the difference is merely phenologi-
i\4 BATAKRISHNA GHOSH

eal, A moro eloquent proof of the close relatieuship
between the two languages cau hardly be imagined, Yel
it is not enough to convince the Linguists af any special
relation existing heiween Vedic and Avestan. They will
argue that the apparent similarily may be simply dno to tha
fact that hoth these languages are known from a very early
date wheu they had not yet had enongh time to chango
much from their original Indo-Knropean prototype. In
fact so long as the apparent similarity consisis meroly in
the retention of the characteristic featurea of the trruad-
sprache it cannot prove any special affinity between any two
Indo-luropean dialects, Only a series of common linguistic
inuovatious can prove this, But ihore is uo dearth of such
innovations in Vedic and Avestan,

In the field of phonology the most important common
inuovation between. these two languages is certainly the
obliteration of all distinctions between the three original a-

vowels é,6 and 4. In the place of these three distinct
yowels in Greek we find only. 4@ in Sanuskmi and Iranian,
which shows that’ this fur-reaching change in the Indo-
European vowel-system liad taken place already in the
common Indo-Iranian dialect spoken hy the common fore-
fathers of the Vedic Aryans and the Iranians. Thna Gr,
ent péte-tai, hut Skt. dpi pdta-ti and Av, @ipi a-pata-t, Gr,
dsse posts, lt Ski, akst pdétianl Av. ak: puigy-, Indo-
European of course as remained unchanged in all the
three languages, cf, Gir, dhuwéu, Skt, afmean and Av,
asian, From the extensive use of the vowel @ in Indo-
Tranian it was thought of first that Sanskrit and
Avestan havo preserved tho old state of things aud that this
original vowel was aplit up inte é Sand fin Greek ete. at
a comparatively later dato. But this view had to be gradu-
ally given up, for if was abserved that althongh to all
appearance @ is a porfectly homogencons vowel in Indo-
Iranian, the behaviourof the gulturala preceding it is hy no
means so simile in theso languages, Iu fact hefore every
a for which Greek ete. show an e, the Indo-Kuropean
guiturals assume a palatalised form in Tudo-Jranian
VEDA AND AVESTA 15

and in the satam dialects in general, thus Gr. te (<*qte),
Lat, gue bnt Skt. and Av, ca. Now ag this palatalisation
is othorwise known in Indo-Iranian only before i or y (ef.
Skt. djiyas but wgrd, Av. draojista superlative of draega) it
had ta be nasumed that the Indo-Iranian palatalising a
imnst have had an i-timbre originally, in other words,
that it was originally ane, Oueo it was thus conclusivoly
proved that Groek has preserved the Indo-Muropean vowel-
systeml more faithfully than Sanskrit by diatinguishing
betweeu @ and e, there was already a strong presnmption
also in the case of o that this vowel too had once enjoyed nu
separate existence iu Indo-Iranian, No direct proof can
be brought forward to prove this asin the casa of e¢, but
liera too the a-vowels which have to be traced back to
Indo-European « show peculiar ablaut forms qnite un-
kuown to those corresponding to Inido-Enropean e or a,
Tn certain particnlar cases a peculiar ‘alternance hetween a
é@ igs observed in Sauskrit, the shorler vowel appearing
before a consonant group and ihe longer one appearing
before a simple consonant. IRfin analogons cases ¢ o (out
of older ai au respectively) appears hefore a consounuat, its
place is taken by ay av before a vowel. Analogy with the
allernauce a: dis quite complete here, far we lave to re-
member that the secoud clement of adiphthong may take
up the function of a consonant, Thus, for instance, in the
3g, perf, act, da-dérs-a Dnt ja-jin-a (altarnance a; 4), cf-
két-a but ji-gdy-a {alternance ¢: ay), ju-jés-a but su-sdv-a
(allernance eo; dv). Now, the corresponding forme in other
Tndoe-Kuropean dialecta show that in these cases a: a is
derived from J.-E, 0; e: &y from I.-8, of; and o: de from
T. -¥, ow; of, Gr, edé-dork-e, [é-loip-e, cilé-louth-e, The
strangely behaving @, which in certain particular cases
shows a short form before a consonant group and
a long form before a simple consonant is therefore
derived frem I,-E, 0, a8 distinel from T.-E. ¢ ore, This
differential behaviour of a-vowels derived from J.-E. o
shows that there was a time when they ware stil! quali-
iatively different from tho other a-vowels in the common
116 BATAKRISHNA GHOSH

Indo-Iranian Urspracke, It is therefore quite a leciti-
mate aud natural assumption ilat in its earlier stage the
Indo-Iranian Ursprache still retained the old I.-E, vowel
o which only later changed into a and thus coincided with
I.-E,. e and a, Yet uo a priori reason can bo shown why
particularly the vowela derived from T.-K. 6 should vary
in qnantily in particular positions, Brugmann atlampled
to prove that the alternauce a: 4 ia the normal Indo-Iranian
representative of the Indo-Hnropean alternance ¢: o in
open syllable, ef. Gr. patéres a-pdteres; Skt. pitdras
trdt-pitaras (“having you as father’), Gr. dhmon-a:
Ski, déinda-am ‘Aly, asmdn-am. Tint Bragmann himself
was compelled to give up his theory in view of nnmerons
exceplions, cf., for example, Gr. génos. Skt, jane, Gr,
homés: Skt. samd, According to Brugmann's Law, the
Skt. forms should have heen *jdua and *s@ma respectively.

We have seen that Indo-Iranian 4 corresponds to I. -E.
é, 6 andl 4. Bnt there is an apparent exception to this rnle,
and this exceplion ig again a.notahle common linguistic
innovation of Sauskril and Avestan. Ordinarily Indo-
Iranian ¢ corresponds to the I, -E, short vowels @, 6, @; but
for those @, 5,4 in Greek, which stan in ablant relation
with é, 6, @ respectively, Sanskrit and Avesta show nol.
é but a To render the picture still more complicated,
ihe homogeneous vowel &, which might he expected in
Indo-Iranian, appears in every other Indo-Mnropean
dialect? and corresponds there to Indo-Tranian ¢ and
Greek @, 6 or dé as (he case may he, Thus the short é@ in Gr,
e-té-théin (<tte-thé-thén throngh dissanilation ef aspirates)
slands ju evident ehlant relation wilh the long é in Gr.
fiethé-mi (original Inda-Kuropean root dhé-), But the
werk prude form of the same roat shows an é¢ in Sanskrit
hifé andl ana@in Lat. fe-c-io, Similarly the weak grade

=

form of the Indo-Buropean root d6- shows an 6 in Greok

1 in the shape of the regular phoentic equivalent of I.-E. @ in the
dialect concerned, Thus jn Slavic an o corresponds to this Indo-Iranian 7
for every |.-£. @ had become o in Slavic at a very corly period,
VEDA AND AVESTA 17

(cf. c-dé-thén as opposed to the full grade form in «i-dé-me)
but again ¢ and @ in Sanskrit (cf. d-d2-thds) aud Latin
(cf, dd-tus) respectively. It is still a disputed point.
whether this Greek alternance 2: € and 6: &is normal and
phonetic or is based on analogy with the allernanee a: 4
as oblaserved in stdé-si¢: hi-std-mi (Doric) from si(/)d-,
whose weak grade form shows z and a in Sanakrit and
Latin respectively (ef, Skt, sthi-td, Lat. std-tes); but most.
lingniata are now inclined to believe that the variety of
sounds appearing in Greek has preserved something old
and ortginal whick has eseaped the other languages,
striving for uniformity in ene form or other,—-in the form
of ¢ in Indo-Iranian, and olsewhere in the form ef @. Now
if ig almost universally accepted that the original I.-I,
aouad to which an z corresponds in Indo-Iranian and an dé
elsewhere (always excepting Greek which may have also
Zand 6), was a weak and indeterminate vowel,—in fact
a weak grade ablaut form of either of the three long
vowels € 6 and a, Short root vowels generally dis-
appear altogether and short diphthongs forfeit their first
compouents in weak grade form, Imt long vowels
always leave something lehind in similur cases eved
though it be a weak and ‘hardly aritenlate vowel. The
the teclnical terminology of lingnistica this weak vowel
istalled sechiea dnudogermanicum and ia transerthed hy au
inverted 9. Now this 2 has normally given rise to ¢ in
Indo-Iranian but coincided with IT. -i-. @ in all the other
dinlecta excepling Greek, But if it is accepted that
the multiplicity of forms in Greek is not due to later
analogical jufluenee of ile allernance @:d but an unthentic
relic of the Tude-Eurepean Graadspracke, it las to he
admidled thal lowever feebly lia schtea gad, might linve
been pronounced it sG11 aucceeded in preserving ils original
dimbre in cach case, Thus the evidence of Greck wonlil

I The word ‘schwa’ is taken from Hebrew grammatical literalure,
where it designates a similar weak wowel.
118 BATAKRISHNA GHOSH

seem to suggest that when derived from é the sehiea indo-
germanioum had an e-timbre, when from 6 an o-timbre
and when from @ an a-timbre. The apparent
anomaly that sometimes to a Greek 284 an i and
not tho naual @ corresponda in Jude-Trauian {ef. Skt.
pita, O. Pera. pita: Gr. petér) cau therefore be fully
explained. Tor we lave seeu thal the vowel in question
was ariginally none of the three ones for which an «
nay be usually expected in Judo-Iranian,’ but a sound
of quite a different character so feehly pronounced
thal its exact vowel timbre in each ease was completely lost
inall the languuges exceptiug perhaps in Greek.

The ablaut @: 9 however naturally appears to be tao
violent, It seems unlikely that the long vowel a would
be reduced to mere @? when the accent is shifted, Oue
would be tempted te believe a priori that a reduced vowel
&@ has io be postulated as the inlermediary step between
a aud 9, ao that the whole ablaut series would be @:4:9. In
fact in Skt, we do find traces of of this short @ aliernating
oa the one hiewd with 4 and on the other with 2 (> 1), ef.
va-ird-tua;: ari (>), This and a few other similar cases
of alternance between @ and @ have given rise to the
helief that the J.-E. 9 sporadieally appenvs as @ im
Sunaskrit. It would be more accurate howeyer to take
this @ as the intermediate reduced siep hetween @ and a,
Ilirt is inclined to believe that suck an intermediate
radneed slep lias to be postulated also in the case of
ahlant a; Ofzero), In other words, iu lus opinion, eveu
a abort vowel cannot disappear alogether in the first
inslance without lenving seine trace bhehind,—an iuter-
mediary reduced vowel step has to be postulated also in
this case, [lirt would thus postulate the ablaut series a:
e: 1) (zero), Tho existence of such a series eannot be
proved by means of examples out of Sanskrit, but
cerlain instances of vowel alternance in Greek suggest

1 Yet 1-E. 9 regularly becomes a in indo-lranian before 7; cf. Skt.
dhdya-ti <"dh gg -e- 0,
VEDA AND AVESTA 119

that Hirt’s series is quite plausible, Thusat ihe aide of
the normal grade form &él-os we have the nil grade from
bl-énai, But whence comes the aorist form bal-cte?
Here it is quile clear that the radical vowel was not allo-
gether lost,—it is here the vehicle of 4 distinct sylluble
(ba-icin). TLirt therefore suggests that here we are con-
fronted with the intermediary reduced vowel ¢ between
a and 0 (zero).

In the treatment of the semi-vowels 27 and w the
languages of the Veda and the Avesin difler from nll
other Indo-European dialects in one respect: in ihe
earliest stage of both these languages ¢ before 7 nud x
before # seem to have beeu dropped even though the
result was a liatus. Sanskrit gréstha las its cxuct
conulerpart in Avy. sraesta, But itisto be noted that in
the RY, geéstiu is often trisyllabiec and the allied froma
clearly show. thal the slem is dray-. It is therefore
quile clear that Lhe original form of Srésthea was either
*Srdgy-istha or *srd-istha (with hiatus), The disyllabic
form éréstha auay he obvionsly derived from *ériy-istha,
in which case it is to be regarded as another case of
Prikritism in ihe RY, (as tredhd<ctirayidia). But the
corresponding AV, forn sraésia excludes this posstbility ; it
may he both disyllabic or trisyllabie (see below), but in
neither case can it le derived from *sraj-ista. On the
other hand, in uumerons cases in Sunskrit, vowels on
both sidea of a hiaiua huve later given rise lo a mono-
plthong (ef. jyéstha <"jyd-isthe, déstha  <"dit-tstha
elc.}. Moreover the apparent diphthong «ae in sraésia
may be acturlly taken to be aé with hiatus, for Ay,
jeé, for inslauce, appeara us ea variant form of jahi,
All this shows Uhat the Indo-Iranian form fram which Skt,
fréstha and Av, sruésta are directly derived was *éra-istha
with hiatus, In the IRV. both the fornns reedt and
reyivat are current, Jjut Av, raéeat shows that the
former represents the older form derived from Indo-
Iranian *raivat <*ragivut. In Skt. rayivdt the y was
unalogically introduced ata later date,
120 BATAKRISHNA GHOSH

Due to the same phonolic law the verb forms in Skt.
which would normally begin with yi- show an witial 2- in
the older language. Thus the desideralive siem of gyej- is
wyeky- in the RV. But m the classical langnage the
initial y was re-introduced aualogically and there the
corresponding slem is yyelts-, This mode of re-intro-
ducing yiscurront already inthe Bribmanas, for there
the desiderative atem of yum- is yiynmes-, aud the corres-
ponding form of yabh- is yiyaps-. Yet in ceriain casos
the older form persisted also in ihe classical language,
ef, eyija (perfect} from yeaj-, In all ihe eases of desidera-
tive mentioned above, thei of the reduphication syllable
is nt least of Indo-Tranian antiquity as we shall see below,
lnt from the extant Avestan texts no form can be qnoted
which would prove a similar loss of initial y before ¢,
The sonud combination yi in medial position is not
altogether rare in Skt., cf, dpdyi (aor, pasa, of pa-), djedyt
(loc. sg. of ai}, etc. But all these forms are later analogy
formations,

The similar disappearance of v before w is not exactly
comparable with the phenomenon discussed uhove, firstly
becanse there is no sure Avestan uxample which would
prove the validity of this law also for old [raman,
though if ig admitledly quite probable, and secondly
because in uone of those numerous cases of the loss of »
hefore ain Skt. is the vowel in quostion of Indo-lnropean
origin, Tn fact the combination we was extremely rare
in the original Tndo-Muropean, In most cases the « in
Skt, which causes the lusa of the preceding v ig derived
from an Tudo-Kuropeau r-sonans (1-H. 7 normally
becomes dr in Skt), of, Skt, ¥ra@ ‘sheen’: Gr. verde,
Ski. dene: OTL, G. wales, ete, This is a peculiar feature
of Ski, alone, for in anelogons cases tle origiunl initial
vis vegularly retained in Avestan, cf, Skt. aras: Av.
varé, Skt. drut: Av. vargnn, etc. In Skt. perfect forms
such as widee (:vite-}, wedse (svas-}, ete. au initial v
has been evidently dropped before «, but this « too is
of properly Tndian origin, for in all these forms the
VEDA AND AVESTA 121

original reduplication ayllable was va- and not *vu- (cf.
vavdea), In analogous cases the reduplication syllable
is invariably vain Avestan (cf. Av. vavata), No parallel
to these Skt. perfect forms with initial u can therefore be
found in Avestan.

To be continued
The Influx of Indlan Sculpture into Fu-nan

By Dr. Ludwig Bachhofer

Among the earliest monuments of Buddhist sculpture
found in Fuenan, the southern part of Cambodiu, are the
statues of two Buddhas, the torso of a sitting Buddha and
the head of a Buddha discovered in the Vat Romlok,
Prei Krabas, Takey, by M. Groslier.’

One of the standing Buddhas, whose head was found
a few years after hig body, is a tall aristocratic hgure
swaying out in a delicate curve, and appearing almost
naked under his smooth and elinging garments. The
sanghalt covers the whole body and is held a little away
from it by both arms, thus forming a sort of trough.

The body which is slim and graceful carries a noble head
of extraordinarily frank expression, which is due to the open
eyes. This ia a rather uncommon feature, for in most
cases the lids are cast down, producing a, dreamy, some-
times an almost depressed, air.

The head of this Buddha resembles in every detail
a matble head hailing from the site of Nagarjunikonda
which was presented some years ago to the Musée Guimet
in Paria by Professor Jouveau-Dubreuil. This head, like
the reliefa from this site, dates from the 3rd century A. D.
The date may be assumed as safely catablished by the
epigraphie records, and by the style of the sculptures
which is evidently related to, but a litthe more mature
than, the style of Amaravati (2nd century A. D.).*

| These eculptures are admirably reproduced in Ara Asfatica, XVI,
George Groslier: Lea collections Khméres da Musée Albot Sorreut
a Phnom-Penk, Paria 1931, Pl. 1-4.

2 J. Ph. Vogel: Prakrit inscriptions from a Buddhist site at
Négarjuntkondd, Ep. ind, XX, pp. 1 @.
INFLUX OF INDIAN SCULPTURE INTO FU.NAN 123

Although the single head cannot be brought inte the
same intimate connection with South Indian prototypes as
the head of this standing Buddha, M. Coedés was certainly
right in pleading for a South Indian descent.

The other standing Buddha is of a heavier build; the
body is accentuated more clearly, the attitude js an
elaborate contraposto so that the silhouette reveals a
livelier movement than that of the other statue. The
drapery leaves the right shoulder and right arm bare,
it is closely drawn to the right side of the body and
hangs down loosely on the left side. The rather heavy
head is bent, and bears an expression of friendly dulness.

Now a good many bronze statuettes of Buddha have
been excavated at Amaravati and at Buddhapad which show
the same arrangement of the clothes, the same gestures,
and often the same carriage. '

And when one remembers that in Java, in Sumatra, in
Siam, in Annam and even in Celebes bronze and stone
figures have been discovered, some of monumental size,
allof them supposed to be imperted from. Amaravati, it
seems obvious that thissame artistic centre is responsible
for the beginnings of Buddhist sculpture in Fu-nan too,”

l think there can be no doubt that the artistic influences
of Amaryavati extended far over the seas; but that does
not imply that only her own art was distributed.

| A. Rea: Excavations at Amaraeati, ASJ.AR., 1908/9, Robert
Sewell: Same Buddhist bronzes and relics of Buddha, JAR,A.S, 1895
pp. 615IF, PI. 1-5.
2 Java. South Djember: ef, W. Cohn: Buddha in der Kunst des
Ostens, Leipzig 1925, pp. 28f.
Sumatra, Scyunglang: Arn. Bibl, of Ind. Arch. for 1931, Pl. 2,
JGES., W/L, Pl. 1.
Siam, P’ong Tikk:; fournal Siam Soc., M1, Bangkok 1928, Pl. 17.
Aan. Bibl. of fad. Arch. for 1927, Pl. vili/c.
Dong-Duong: Coomaraswamy: Geschichte der ind, und indones.
Kunst, Abb, 342.
Celebes, West coast: Tijdschrift Bataviaasrch Genoolschap,
1933, pp. 495ff.
124 LUDWIG BACHHOFER

One strange trait of Indian sculpture. as far as Buddhist
subject-matter ia concerned, enables the archaeologist
to trace certain representations back to their origins.
| mean the fact that Northern, Weatern and Southern
India represent the Buddha in different attitudea and
differently clad. Northern India gives the sitting Buddha
with legs interlocked ({vajrdsana). After the invasion of
Gandharan forma, i.¢., from about 100 A. D., Mathura
clothes her Buddhas in sanghdiis reaching up to the neck,
and tries to reproduce the North-Weatern drapery by
long parallel curves, mostly incised in the stone.’ At
this stage the Buddha image waa passed on from Mathura
to Amaravati. But the Indian taste was not contented,
for it had its own view as to what an ideal Buddha
should look like; very soon the clothes were stripped
from hia right shoulder and arm, and at the same time
the heavy hem of the garment was drawn across the
lega and thrown over the extended left fore-arm. Thia
change took place in Mathura already, but it seema
significant that there only one statue of Maitreya shows
the new fashion, whereas the Buddha continues to be
presented with covered shoulders and arms. It was in
Amaravati that the new mode met with unchecked
approval and gave birth to the well-known type of South
Indian Buddha.

This happened during the 2nd century A. D., probably
shortly before or about [50 A.D, After thia date a free-
standing Buddha in South [ndia invariably has his right
shoulder and arm hare, and carries his sanghdt? in the
manner deacribed above. The figure holds itself stifly crect,
without any bend in the hipa.

South India and Ceylon did not abandon this type for
centuries, as is proved by the bronzes from Dong-Duong

1 Thedate 129 A.D., given in L. Bachhofer: Early indian Sculptare,
Portis 1929, |, pp. (03M, has lo be corrected inta 106 A.D. Detailed reasons
in my paper on Die Anfange der buddhistischen Plastik in China, Oat,
eit,, NFL, X. 1934, p. 8.
INFLUX OF INDIAN SCULPTURE INTO FU-NAN 125

and South Djember which date from the 4th-5th and 5th-6th
centuries A, D. respectively.

Though those fine works of South Indian toreutics were
discovered in Further India, thus testifying to an aneient
trade between those countries and the Vengi, | wish to
emphasise the fact that the style, the attitudes and the
costume of both the standing Buddhas from Vat Romiok do
not coincide with those of the South Indiantype. True,
apart from the size and the material, one of them, thc
second one described, is identical with a small bronze
from Buddhapad, But here the queation is raised whether
this and other statuettes from Buddhapad and Amaravati
were South Indian or not,

They are not; their gracefully swinging bodies, with
their thin, smooth draperies; with bare right shoulder and
arm are not the ideal of Southern, but of Western India
where this very type dominates the caves of Ajanta and
Kanheri. It may be that those specimens are comparatively
late, dating from about the middle of the 6th century A. D,
but the statuettes from Buddhapad, Amardvati and some
other sites not only show the same features, but show them
in a decidedly earlier style. To assign them to the 4th
century A. D. might not be very far off the mark.

The presence of a considerable number of Buddhas
of the Western Indian typc in the Vengi seems to be due
to the dynasty of the Ikgvakus who were probably of Saka
descent, perhaps even related to the *’Western Satraps.''
Some inscriptions from Nag&rjunikonda support this assump-
tion very strongly, and Mr. Sten Konow has come to the
conclusion that some expressions point to Western India.’
Moreover, there is a number of reliefs from Nagarjunikonda
which represent Saka warriors in their unmistakably
Central Asian costumes.

To sum up: the sitting Buddha from Vat Romlok is
definitely connected with South India by the paryankasana,

1 Vogel, Le. pp. 4, 3%, 25. Ann. Bibl of Ind. Arch. for 1927,
Pl. vifr, ibid., for 1930, Pl. ii/b.
126 LUDWIG BACHHOFER

the head of one of the standing Buddhas is intimately
related to a head from Nagirjunikonda, while another
head must have been influenced by a South Indian model;
the second standing Buddha is identical with a small bronze
Buddha from Buddhapad. There is little doubt that the
influx of all these forms came from the Vengi, even that
of the Western India type, which had become fashion-
able thete under the lksvaku dynasty.

The export of Buddhist sculpture from Vengi overseas
to the East must have started as early as the 2nd century
A. D., for the small bronze Buddha of P’ong Tiik and the
enormous stone Buddha of Ségungtang belong to a phase
in the development of South Indian sculpture which ended
about 150 A.D. The modele for the statues of Vit Romlok
do not seem to be earlier than the end of the 3rd or more
likely of the 4th century A. D.; they found their way into
Fu-nan under the ‘Ikgvakus who had made South India
acquainted with the type of Weatern India.

But it was not only Western and South Indian art which
reached Fu-nan, although their influence was predominant
there. The Buddha frst described, .the one with the head
closely related to the head of Nagarjunikonda, is clad in a
sanghati covering both shoulders. This feature proves at
least an acquaintance with Buddha images from’ North
India, and the total absence of the uma in V&t Romlok
points in the same direction. That there existed a connec-
tion between North India and Siam at least, may be
concluded from the fine standing Buddha from Vat Ro,
Ayudhya, now in the National Museum in Bangkok, which
would have been impossible without an intimate acquain-
tance with a North India type of rather the 4th than the 5th
century A. D.!

It goes without saying that the art of Western and Southern
India was spread to Further India by sea; the geographical

| G. Coedés: Leas collections erehéologiqucs du Musée Nationale de
Bangkok (Ara Asiatica, XII}, Paris 1928, Pl. ii.
INFLUX OF INDIAN SCULPTURE INTO FU-NAN 127

position of the sites where ‘'Pre-khmér’’ sculpture has been
found in Cambodia corroborates this view. 1 am inclined
to think the same about the spread of North Indian art, and
that the blending of the various ideas and forms was
effectuated in Fu-nan, But this is only a theory and it
ig to be hoped that new finds will throw a clearer light on
these interesting problems.
A Sanskrit Manual of Tsonkhapist Warship
By Dr. E. Obermiller*

The January issue of this Journal contains a most
interesting article by Pandit Vidhushekhara Bhattacharya
"A Sanskrit treatise by a Tibetan author’. We have here
a specimen of those queer literary productions of the Tibetan
and Mongolian Lamas who consider it especially meritorious
to clad their works, originally written in Tibetan, in a
Sanskrit garb, and make attempts to write Sanskrit without
being able to follow the rules of grammar. Mr. Bhattacharya
gives us a critical edition of the quasi-Sanskrit version of the
text, an edition which he has prepared with the greatest care,
being never at a loss to explain the irregular forms and to
amend them in the foot-notes. In the foreword he points to
the contents of the text and remarks that it “‘deals with the
method of worship well-known in Mahayana Buddhism,
taking refuge (Saranagamana), the production of the thought
of enlightenment (bodhicittotpada),"’ etc.

All this is unquestionably right. But, may it be asked,
who is the object of worship in the present case?
This is a matter of no small importance, which, as it
scems to us, has completely escaped the attention of
Mr. Bhattacharya; otherwise he would certainly have made
mention of it in the foreword. We may be permitted to
make here this necessary addition basing our remarks upon
the text in which the person to whom the author addresses
himself is most clearly indicated.

* As we are going through the Press, we learn with extreme regret ihe
cod news of the peimature death of Dr. Obermiller. By his death the
cause of Buddhist learning has Jost one of its mos! indefatigable and
compctent workers and the Greater India Society, along with many olher
learned insti{utions in ihia country has been deprived of a most
esleemed coadjutor. An obituary notiee of the late lamenled seholar
will appear in the next number of this Journal :—Ed,, J.G.L5.
A SANSKRIT MANUAL OF TSONKHAPIST WORSHIP — 129

Let us take first of all the sentence at the beginning:
SRT ST: |

It is to be translated as: “the way or method (rama)
of honouring (upecdra) the teacher (guru) who is called the
king, the Lord of Tugita."” Now, who is this teacher? We
read further on {p, 50):
qhratiey arqeq and ware aig: anfadtfaeth 1
“The king of the Doctrine, the omniscient Sumati-
kirtigri.”” At once all becomes clear, Sumatikirtigri
is the Sanskrit equivalent of LLo-bsan-dag-pai-pal
(Blo-bzan-grags-pahi-dpal}the proper name of Ts on-
kha-pa, the great Tibetan reformer and founder of the
Gelugpa sect. He ig called "the Lord of Tusita’’, i.e., of the
Tibetan monastery Gandan_ or Ganden
(dgah-Idan=Tusita), which was founded by him in 1409 and
became the first centre of the Gelugpa sect. Till the present
day the Head Lama of Gandan‘is termed ‘the successor to
the golden throne of Tson-kha-pa.”” ‘"The sons’’ mentioned
in the following line are the twe principal pupils of Tson-
kha-pa, viz, Gyal-tshab Darma Rinchen and Khai-dub
Ge-leg Pal-sat-po (mkhas-grub dGe-legs dPal-bzanh-po), the
first two spiritual rulers of Gandan after the teacher's death.

As to the Sanskrit proper name of Tson-kha-pa,—
Sumatikirti or Sumatikirtigri, it is well-known to the Tibetan
and Mengclian Lamas. A mantra which is engraved over
the doors of one of the temples of the Chilitai Monastery
(Buriat Republic, Transbaikalia}) and which drew my atten-
tion during my visit to that place runs;
a TeTMITgaaitdtate ee

But let ws proceed further on with the text. On page
53 we read; ahagy gafeattiney (sic!) are aearfa(srarrarfa) 1

Here no further investigation is needed. We have it
directly ; aay which is no other than Teon-kha-pa with the
4 substituted for isa and the anusvdra for = . It seems
strange that Mr. Bhattacharya has not paid attention to this
place, as well as the preceding epithet Gans-can mkhas-pahi
gisug-rgyan {correctly sanskritized: himavat-panditocuda-

6
130 E, OBERMILLER

lamkara) which is one of the honorific appellations or compli-
mentary names of Tson-kha-pa, indicated by Sarat Chandra
Das in his Dictionary, p. 211.

The fact that the worshipper makes his Mental Effort
or vow for Enlightenment as if in the presence of Tson-kha-
pa must be explained in the sense that, just as the
Bodhisattvas of the Buddhist legends are said to have made
their vows in addressing their prayer to the Buddha of their
time,’ in the same manner the Gelugpa devotee addresses
the founder of his order. the Master or Lord of Gandan
(Tusita). The latter is for him by no means inferior to a
Buddha.?

Thus the text edited by Mr, Vidhushekhara Bhattacharya
discloses itself as a manual for worshipping Tson-kha-pa, the
deified guru, the Je-Lama (rje-bla-ma), the object of pious
adoration of millions of Tibetan and Mongolian Buddhists,

} CE. Bu-afon, Transl, Vol. |. p. 108, etc.
2 The Tibetans give to Tson-kha-pa the title of *"the second Buddha,”
the same which is usually applied to Vasubandhu.
Ten Old-Jevenese Copper-pletes
from Sidoteka of the Seke year !245.

By Himansu Bhusan Sarkar

Ten copper-plates measuring 14°56” x 4°92” approximately
were found in 1884 and 1885 from Sidotéka in the division
of Mojokerto, Surabaya’. According to Dr. Van Stein
Callenfels* these must have been obtained from a region
in the lower course of the Brantas river. They are depo-
sited at present in the Museum of Batavia where they are
numbered E. 25°. Dr. Brandes gave a cursory notice of these
plates in the Notulen‘ where he stated that several terms
occurring in these records agree with those of the record
of 3216 Saka, now numbered LXXX] in O/O. The present
series of copper-plates which forms but one inscription does
not mention the proper name of the reigning king but gives
merely his coronation-name, viz., Sri Sundarapandyadewa-
dhigwarandma rajabhiseka .wikramottunggadewa. As King
Krtarajasa died* in the year 1309 A. D., this record of 1323
A.D. refers in all probability to his son and successor,
Jayanagara, who has been called Kala Gémeét by the writer
of the Pararaton.' This prince is mentioned in the record
of 1294 A. D.? The coronation-name already appears in
the Blitar inscription of 1314 A. D. from which it would
seem that this title had been in use at least for a decade’.
It is rather strange that Jayanagara should accept a name

OJO., p. 195,
Feealb, Gai. Gen., IL (1925), p. 377 ff.
Notulen, 1884, p. LI #., 1885, p. I.

Notulen, 1886, p. 43 ff.

TBG., 55, p. 147.

Pararaion?, pp. 130, 131.

OJO., LXXXI, p. 1, Ma.

OfO., LAXXI1; Krom, Geschiedenis?, p. 379,

aw oO wh Ww hn
132 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

which signifies his suzerainty over Sundarapandya, apparen-
tly the Pandya King of that name in Southern India. Dr.
Krom‘ in his well-known treatise on Indo-Javanese history
has questioned the validity of the King’s assuming this
title, May | suggest that the title refers to the defeat of King
Jativarman Sundarapandya II! who appears to be identical
with Marco Polo's Sendar Bandi ruling in 1292 A, D. ", and
with Sundar Bandi, who, according to Muslim historians,
died in 1293 A.D. ? The relations of the Pandyas with
indonesia were not always peaceful. An _ inscription
of the Pandya King Jat@varman Virapandya, dated 1264
A. D., states that he took the crown and the crowned head
of the king of Jdvaka.’* There is therefore no impro-
bability in the assumption of an antagonism between
the powers of Indonesia and Southern India. | venture to
suggest that this conflict occurred not long before 1293
A.D., if the date of demise of Sundarapandya as given by
Muslim historians is correct. As Jayanagara did not
probably attain manhood at this time, he was obviously
the nominal head of the Majapahit army against ita South
Indian adversaries. '

This record contains a list -of the high functionaries of
state, some of whom are known from other sources.
Among the foremost ministers we notice the names of
Ranganatha, Kamegvara and Viévanatha. There were
several commanders of the army. Of them, Purusedvara,
the commander for Daha, and Haldyudha, the commander
for Majapahit, were probably the most important, because,
while the other two generals, viz., Dedesa, the commander
for Kapulungan, and Tanu, the commander for Matahun,
are designated simply as Mpu, the former two are explicitly

9 Geachiedenis’, p. 378 ff.

10 For these Pandya rulers, see El, xi, pp. 253-266; 7A., xxl,
p. 121 @.

1] CY. also Cathey and the wey thifher, Yule’s ed., Vol. 1, p. 220;
Caldwell, Comparative Grammer, Introd., p. 141.

H2 fA., IEXX (1922), pp. 48-50; fGIS., Il, pp. 19-20,
TEN OLD-JAVANESF, COPPER-PLATES FROM SIDOTEKA 133

mentioned as dyah, i. ¢., princes or members of noble
families. In pl. 4a we read that the King’s authority not
only embraced the whole of the island of Java but also
the eastern islands of Madura and Tafijungpura. Thus
the Majapahit empire of the time of Jayanagara had
extensive relations with lands in the far east and west. This
inscription also throws some side-light on the cultural and
religious history, as well as the industries and amusements
of contemporary Java. We not only hear of the Superinten-
dents of Saivite and Buddhist institutions, but also come
to learn that some of them were highly educated. Different
branches of letters like grammar, logic and Samkhya
philosophy were studied with profit by these spiritual
teachers called dang dcdryas. As regards business-transac-
tions we hear not only of commodities from lands but also of
the products of seas. Of these the production of sugar,
pots, wickerworks, umbrellas, etc., deserves particular
mention. Among the amusements of the Javanese people,
music of Kangsi and gamélan has been mentioned in pl. 8a.
They loved to wear fine clothes and precious jewels, golden
bracelets, nose-rings, etc., while rich dishes catered to their
varied tastes.

This inscription has therefore a great bearing on the
history of ancient Java. Just as we have jalasemitha as
the royal seal of Balitung or garudamukha as the seal of
King Airlangga, so this record also mentions minadvaya,
i.e., two fishes, as the la@fichana of King Jayanagara,
the record has been transcribed in Brandes-Krom,
Oudjavaansche Oorkonden where it bears no. LXXXIII.
| now edit the text from this transcription, adding an original
translation with proper diacritical marks.

Text

la, Swasti 4ri Sakawarsatita, 1245, marggagiramasa tithi
Paficadagi duklapaksa. tung, u, ang, wara, krulwut, pir-
wasthagrahacfra, adranaksatra, rudradewatii, baruna-
134 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

mandala, brahmayoga, wijayamuhirtta, Yamaparwweda,
wawakarana, mit(h)una radi, irika diwaga ny aja paduka
Sri maharaja, rajadhiraja, pa(ra)meswara, ér7 wirdlanda-
gopala, abhanggardhuttaraya, parinatiraranakarajanya-
mukutakotipunjapifijarapadarawinda, asamitaranani-
pufiarajadirascedabhayanaka, wijitaripu  Kuladayita
jalanicaya puramandalarnnawa, sakalasujananikarahr-
dayakumuda wikadanigikara, akilapratipaksaniSandha-
karakgayadiwakara, wipraksatrobhayakulawisuddha 417
sundarapandyadewadhiswarandma rajabhigeka, wi-

bP. kramottunggadewa, tinadah de sang mantr! katrini,
rakryan mantri hino dyah éri rangganatha, aratibhayang-
kara, rakryan mantri sirikan dyah kameéwara, anindi-
talaksana, rakryan mantri halu, dyah wiSwanatha,
awaryyanujabhima, makapuragsara rake tuhan mapatih
ring daha, dyah puruseswara, ranarikampanakarana
bhujaparakrama, saksat 1 pranalamratisubaddhakeén _ sthi-
ratara ni palinggih éri maharaja siniwi ring kanakamani-
mayatoranakalpawrksa, samering mwang rake tuhan
mapatih ring majhapahit, dyah halayudha, aganita
gunaninditalakgana, umingsor i paratanda rakryan ring
pakirakiran makabehan, rakryan dmung pu samaya,
rananggabhirama, rakryan kanuruhan pw = anékakan
samararisendtaka, rakrya-

2 a. nrangga, pu jalu, randnindyabala, rakryan mapatih
ring kapulungan, pu dedes, wirdniwaryya, rakryan
mapatih ring matahun, pu tanu, ranaturasahaya, muang
sang mantri wrddhengitajna, sang aryya patipati, pu
kapat, paramanindita{ ) atya, sang aryya wangSaprana,
pu ménur, ranaranggabharana, sang Aryya  rajapara-
krama, mapafji elim, nayavinayanindita, sang aryya
jayapati, pu pamor, atisatyanukila, sang fryya sundari-
dhirdjadasa, pu kapasa, sa{ka)lagrima@ruradgaguna, sang
aryya rajadhikara, pu tanga, satatanayatisiikemacin-
tanatandrita, aaksat pinekabahudanda éri mahdrdja an
satata umalocita ri karakganing sayawadvipamandala,
tan kawuntat sang dharmmadhikarananyayanyayawyaw-
aharawiscedaka, sang pamett i tirwan, da-
EN OLD-JAVANESE COPPER-PLATES FROM SIDOTEKA 135

b. ng acaryya ragawijaya, mapafji sahasa, nyayawya-
karanaparisamapta, sang pamgét i kandamuhi, dang
aciryya wiswanatha, mapafji paragata, sangkyasastra-
parisamapta, sang pamgét i manghuri, dang Acaryya
( ) hanatha, nyayawyakaranaparisamapta, sang
pamgét i pamwatan, dang acaryya dharmmaraja,
nyayasastraparisamapta, sang pamgét i jambi, dang
Acaryya § Siwanatha, nyayawy Adkaranaparisamapta,
dharmmadhyaksa ring kaSaiwan, sang pamgét i ranu
kabayan, dang Acaryya smaranatha, nyayawySkarana-
parisamapta, dharmmadhyakga ring kasogatan, pungkw
i padélégan, dang Acaryya kanakamuni, boddhatarkka-
wyakaranaparisamapta, i pingsor ny ajfia sri maharaja,
kumonakén irikang wanweng tuha fiaru, muang i
kusambyan, padamlakna sang hyang ajiia ha-

3a, ji praéasti tinanda minadwayalaficana, thani watck
atagan janatosan,{ )cihna nikang tuhafaru§ muang
kusambyan, an sinuk sima swatantradégringgit, samban-
dha, gati dyah makaradhwaja, manghyang waranugraha
éxi maharaja, ri dadyanikang tuhafaru muang kusam-
byan susukén sima swatantradég ringgit, makaphala
kaswatantrani sawka dyah makaradhwaja, muang ménta-
saknang kulawargga ring tuhafaru muang kusambyan,
maryyakaparatantra, kadi tingkahnya ring puhun ma-
lama, kewala sima swatantradég ringgit, mangkana rasa
ni panghyang dyah makaradhwaja i paduka éri
maharaja, phalaphala ning drdabhakti ri éri maharaja
abhimata dyah makaradhwaja, muang ri wruhanikang
gakalaloka ri kadharmmapardyan dyah makaradhwaija,
muang ri tan alangalang pamrih dyah makaradhwaja,
makadada-
b. ha swajiwita kuminkin sthiratara ni palinggih Sri
maharaja siniwining sayawadwipamandala, umisi-
laksana ning suputra, ikang drdabhakti satata umalocita
ri tanpanasarasangkeng maryyadayukti, kewala tumirwa
kapararthan éri maharaja, sumaphalakna sih éri maha-
raja satatamaramarah ring heyopadeya, ika gati dyah
makaradhwaja mangkana, matangnyan turun waranu-
136 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

graha Sri maharaja api tuwin enak wruh 4ri maharaja
an tuhutuhu kuladipakaanggéh dyah makaradhwaja
putra de 4ri maharaja matangnyan inayubhagya rasa
panghyang dyah makaradhwaja de éri maharaja, maka-
phala wruhanikang sakalajana ri kadharmmegtan ri
maharaja, ikang tan wnang tan masih ring uwua
mulahakén dharmmaning sewa-

4a. kottama, muang tan pgat ning kaparahitan inulaha-
kén Sri maharaja, an tuhutuhu wisnwawatara inadhi-
gthana sang paramasujana pinratista, irikang rajya i
majhapahit kangkén prasida makapranala rake tuhan
mapatih dyah puruseswara makapunpun anak ang
sayawadwipamandala, makangSa ikang niga madhura
tafijungpuradi, yatamijilakén ayabyayaning sakalajanan-
satata bhakti mangarccana ri paduka sri mahiaraja,
muang po dapawwat nikang nisaparaniisa kangkén
pangragaskar gatinyantan kaliigan praptangkén prati-
warsa, matangyan enak ta pangarccana nikang sewa-
kattama mulahakén kaparahitan muang rumaksa tguhan
ing swadharmma kangkén kriya japa samadhi ning
manghyang turun i waranugraha éri mah&raja, an prasi-
b. ddha wisnupratiwimba makawyakti, wnang = &ri
mahadraja wigrahanugraha ring sakalajana, dyah makara-
dhwaja pwa yogya turunana waranugraha, matangyan
dinadyakén ta sang hyang ajfia haji pragasti tinanda
minadwayalaficana, kmitana ni samasanak ing tuhafary
muang kusambyan sinusuk simadég ringgit tan
kaparabyapara kadi tingkahnya ring puhun malama,
anghing samasanak ing tuhafiaru muang samasanak
ing kusambyan atah pramapa ri salébak wukirnya,
tkeng gaga réntknya, kunéng parimana ni Imah nikang
tuhafaru, muang kusambya (n), ring purwwa, asidaktan
muang ika pamulung, mangidul méntas ing Iwah,
dudug ing agneya, anuju tugu kulumpang, sapakliran
muang pamulung, muang kawalédan, muang ikang
wadu tngeh, mangulwan mluk a-

Sa. ngidul angulwan, tkeng daksina, sapakliran muang
wanu tngah, muwah angulwan mluk, angidul angulwan
TEN OLD-JAVANESE COPPER-PLATES FROM SIDOTEKA 13?

muwah angulwan amne€r tke pinggir ing lwah, sapakliran
muang wanua tngah mangidul atut pinggir ing lwah,
mangulwan atut pinggir ing lIwah, dudug ing nairiti,
sapakliran muang wanua tngah, muang padada, méntas
angalor, eapakliran muang padada, mangalor muwah
tkeng pascima, sapakliran muang padada, mangetan
mluk angalor aniku lalawa, mangalor amnér dudug ing
bayabya sapakliran muang bana, muang pangeran,
mangetan anutug ing uttara, sapakliran muang pangeran,
muwah mangetan dudug ing aiganya, sapakliran muang
pangeran muang pamulung, mluk angidul angulwan
matra, muwah angidul amnér tkeng purwwa, sapakliran
muang pamulung samangkana
&. hingan i lmah nikang tuhanaru, muang ing kusambyan,
hana ta sawah phalagrama pangrénanikang samasanak
ing tuhafiaru i dyah makaradhwaja, sawah témpah.
1, blah, muwah ikang samasanak ing kusambyan asung
pangrénai dyah makaradhwaja sawah témpah, 1, ika
ta kat€mwa kalilirakna tke .dlaha ning dlaha kabhuktya
deni sasantana pratisantana dyah makaradhwaja, tan
kawungkilwungkila de samasanak ing tuhafiaru, muang
samasanak ing kusambyan, apan uwus parnnah phala-
Srama dyah makaradhwaja, mangkana krama nikang
sima j tuhafaru, muang kusambyan, kunéng tingkah
nika kalh, kewala sima swatantridég ringgit tan
kolahulaha de sang prabhu mantry anagata, tke dlaha
ning dlaha, muang tan kaparabydpara de

60, ning nayaka pratyaya, tan kneng turuturun sagém
farakut, bwat hajyan agéng admit lakwalakwan adoh
apar€, muang tan katamana deni winawa Sane mana
katrini, Iwi (r)nya, pangkur, tirip, muang pinghe
wahuta rama, lawan sakweh ning mangilala dpwyahaji,
wuluwulu parawulu agéng admit, makading miéra
Pparamisra, panghurang, kring, padém, manimpiki,
paranakan, limus galuh, mangrijici, manghuri, parang,
sungka, dhira, pangaruhan, sungging, pangun€ngan,
taji, watutajém, sukun luwarak, rakasang, ramanang,
piningle, katangaran, tapahaji, airhaji, malandang,
138 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

lea, lablab, kukap, pakuwangi, kutat, tangkil, trépan,
watu walang, salyut, maniga, pamanikan, sikpan,
rumban, wilang wanwa, wi-

b, jikawah, panggare, tingkis, mawi, manambangi,
tanghiran, tuhadagang, tuhanambi, tuha judi, juru
gosali, mangrumbe, mangguije, juru hufijéman, juru
jalir, pabisir, pawuruk, pangjungkung, pawungkunung,
pakalangkang, pakilingking, linggang, srépan, karérén-
gan, pulung padi, pawlangwlang, pakuda, pahaliman,
urutan, dampulan, tpung kawung, sungsung, pangurang,
wli tambe, wli hapi, wli pafijut, wli wadung, miésrahino,
migranginangin, pabrési, pakatimang, palamak, sinagiha,
sahulun haji wat€k i jro, ityewamadij kabeh, tantama-
tah irikang sima i tuhafaru muang ing kusambyan
mangkana tekang suka duhka, kadyangganing mayang
tanpawwah walu ru (ma)mbat ‘ing natar, wipati wangke
kabunan, rah kasawuring - :

7 a. natar,. waikcapala, hastacapala, duhilatén,
hidukasirat, amiyilakén wuryyaning§ kikir, amuk,
amungpang, lidan, titan, angSapratyangsa, danda
kudanda, mandihaladi, kewala samasinak  atah
pramana tka kabeh tkeng miéranémbul, amahang,

anglaka, anggumarang, afiarub, anulang wungkudu,
afiangwring, angubar, angapus, amdeél, angegula,

angdyun, amubut, agawe suri, agawe kisi, wusuwusu,
payung wlu, mopih, anipah, rungki, anganamandim,
afjaring, an€pis, anawang, amisandung §  manuk,
anangkeb, akalakala, angrajut, yawat umunggwirikang
tuhafiaru, muang kusambyan, kewala samasanak atah
pramaneriya, muang sadrwya hajinya muwah mady-

b. wya ta samasainak padagang. |wirnya, atitih sapriana,
abhagana, sadasar, angawari, sadasar, angujal, satuhan,
adagang bakulan, sa isi ning gaga, sa isining sawah, sa
isining rawa, sa isl ning sagara, ga isi ning rwang, alih
prina hinganya, angulang kbo, 20, kbonya, angulang
sapi, 40, sapianya, angulang wdus, 80, wdusanya,
angulang celeng, sawurugan celenganya, angulung itik,
sawantayan, agulungan, sarangkang, angarah, rwang
TEN OLD-JAVANESE COPPER-PLATES FROM SIDOTEKA 139

lumpang, pande wai, pande dang, pande mas, pande
gangaa, pande dadap, amaranggi, kapwa rwang gusali,
alukis rwang pajaran, undahagi, satuhan, acadar, rwang
pacadaran, atwih rwang widay, amalantén, rwang pama-
Iwan, tka

8 a. ta hingan i sambyawara nikang tuhataru muang
kusambyan, kinalihanya, kunéng yan Iwih sangkeng
pahingan iriya, kaknana, ya de sang mangilala drwya
haji sapaniskaranya, tuhanikang kinawnangakén sama-
sanak ing tuhafiaru muang kusambyan, rikawéhaning
rare aittakidi, curing kinangsyan, amaguta pajéng tiga
warnna, agilanggilang ampyal gading, askar  katang-
katang, makawaca, geélung grét, as€ndi wulung,
tinuntun ing alangalang apangharép génding, anukana
kawé, kukuwaka, luwéluwér, wrttiwali, kala, angkuSa,
anandang, salwirning ratna “makadi manik agéng,
apawarana banantén, amanah kukulan, anuntun celeng,
atkén, walira, Sucyan, ungangan, tulis wténg, andélan
susu, dinulang ing madhu parkka, santi, pasilih tamping,
pasilih galuh, pa—
b. sith kambungan, pasilihéning kdi, pris watang,
pras bundér, pras cira, pras brisadi, pras siddhayuga,
prés tuwuhtuwuhan, aglang mas ring tangan ing auku,
anandang tinulis ing é€mas, palungan pinikul inulésan
banantén, anunggi rare yanggénding génding, apangafjur
téwek, wnang angudasapyakluhanapahangan, anunttna
talyasabuk, cawét, wnang amuktyakna rajamangéa, prang
gdang yan polih, maling wnang usirén ing kawula, ming
(g) at, ndatan ulih nydnginggatakén, wnang usirén ing
maling t]s, tahirén yanpahutang, wnang afijamaha rare
kawula, mangkana kinawnangakén samasainak ing
tuhaiiaru muang kusambyan, ri tlasnyan  paripirnna
pagéh anugraha 4ri maharaja, manghaturakén ta
gamasdnak i tuhafiaru muang samasanak ing ku—

9a. sambyan, pamuspa i éi mahiardja, sayathaéakti,
muwah paratanda ring pakirakiran makabehan, ijnaséan
pasék pagih yathasambhawa kading lagi sowang sowang,
muwah parasimya sapinakawadana nikang  thani
140 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

sakaparé, inas¢an pasék pagéh saparikramaring lagi, ri
tlas ning adrun pase¢k pagéh tiningkah ta saji ning awaju,
raweh, wadihati, akudur, sahapirak, ma, 1, wdihan
sahle sowang mangdiri tekang wadihati ring sabha-
maddhya i ser ning turumbukan, tlas mottarasangga,
mamukhawandhana, makalambi sangke harép, mandélan
pada, sahawidhiwidhina ning anusuk sima ring lagi
hinarépakning anawaju hanak thani, lumkas_ tekang
akudur manéték gulu ning ayam, amantingakén
hantiga, humarép ing krodhadega, mamangmang
manapathe, sumawakcang
b. minangmang ring lagi, lingnya, om indah ta kita
kamu hyang haricandana agasti maharsi, purwwadaksina
pascimottara irddham adhah maddhya, rawi, éagi prthiwy
apas tejo baywakasa, dharmmahoratra, sandhyatraya,
yaksa raksasa pigdca pretasura gandharwwa kinnara
mahoraga, yama baruna kuwera basawaputra dewata,
paficakusika nandigwara mahakala sadwinayaka nagaraja
durggadewi caturagrama, ananta hyang kalamrtyu,
sakweh ta bhutagana, kita prasiddha rumaksa ng
yawadwipamandala, kita sakala saksi tumon adoh aparé,
ring rahineng kulm, kita umasuk ing sarwwabhita,dréngd
teking sapatha samaya pamangmang mamiri kita kamu
hyang kabeh, yawat ikang wwang agéng admit
sawakanya, yadyan caturwarnna, brahmana kgatriya, wai-
10, a ya, diidra, athaca, caturasrami, brahmacari grhastha
vanaprastha, bhikguka, mwang pinghay awajuhakurug
anakthani, makadi sang prabhu mantry andgata, yawat
umulahulah ri kaswatantranikang sima i tuhafiaru, muang
kusambyan, muang ngaruddha mungkilmungkila, mari
keirnnakna, mne hlém tka ning dlaha ning dlaha,
nguningiini yanpangdahuta sang hyang upala sima,
angalihakna ri tan yogya unggwananya, salwiraning
manglilangakna kaswatantranikang sima i tuhafaru,
muang kusambyan jah tasmat bwat karmmaknanya,
patyananta ya kamu hyang, dayantat patyam ya, yan
aparaparan, humaliwat ata ya ring tgal sahutén ing ula
mandi, ring alas manglangkahana mingmang, dmakén
TEN OLD-JAVANESE COPPER-PLATES FROM SIDOTEKA 141

dening wyaghra, ring wwai sanghapén ing wuhaya, ring
Sagara, sanghapén dening minaredra, prangprang,
timinggala ma—

b. hagila, ula lampe, yan turun kapagute luficip ing
paras, kagulungeng jurang parangan, kas€ms€ma
rékrémpwa yan humaliwat ri sdéng ing hudan, sambéren
dening glap, yan anher ing umah katibanana bajragni,
tanpanoliha ring wuntat. tarung ring pangadégan,
tampyal ring kiwa, uwah i ri tngénan, rémék {k)
apalanya, bubak dadanya, blah wt€ngnya, wétwaken
dalémanya, cucup utéknya, inum rahnya, mangan
dagingnya. pépédakén wkas i pranantika, wawa ring
maharorawa, weha muktya sangsara, phalanya n
angulahaku anyayaprawrtti, kawulatan de sang hyang
trayodaga saksi | astu, o (ng), siddhir astu [lol|

Transiation.

la. [fOll Hail! The holy Saka year past, 1245, the
month of Margagirsa, the fifteenth day of the bright half
of the month, Tunglai,"?’ Umanis,'* Tuesday, Krulwut,'
the position of the planet is in the East, the star is
Ardra, the deity is Rudra, the region is of Varuna,
the yoga is Brahma, the muhirtta is Vijaya, the
presiding deity of the orb is Yama, the Karana is
Wawa, the Zodiac sign is that of Mithuna. At this
time the orders of H.M. the auspicious great king,
king of kings, who is god (-like) and exterminator of
heroes (wirdlandagopala) who eliminates coming danger
by stretching (hands) towards the dagger (?),'* whose
lotus-feet have been encaged in immense Kofis of
diacdems of homage-paying princes and kings. who

[3 Mal.Polynesian day of the six-day week.

14. Mal,-Polynesian day of the five-day week.

15 This is expressive of o Mal. Polynesian time-reckoning.

16 The text has e@bhanggarchuite-raya, of which the component
rahoita is not known !o me. If this is regatded as a copyist'’s mistake
for vahat(i}a, tbe above translation may be accepted.
142 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

separates the head of the kings of enemies expert
in unabating contests, whois dreadful, whose enemies
have been conquered, who is the protector of waters,
the circle of cities and the ocean’’, whois (like) the
Moon that opens the heart-lotuscs of the assemblage
of all good men, who, in destroying all enemies, is
just like the Sun that dispels the darkness of the
night, who is exalted by the Vipras and the Ksatriyas,
who is the auspicious one with the coronation-name
of Sundarapandyadevadhisvara,*"

6. exalted like a god in prowess,'"—were received by
the three Hon. Ministers (viz.), rakryan mantri hino (who
is) dyah Sri Rangganatha, dreadful to the enemies,
rakryan mantr sirfkan (whois) dyah Sri Rangganatha,
dreadful to the enemies, rakryan. mantri sirikan {who is)
dyah Kameévara, of unblemished character, rakryan
mantri halu (who is) dyah Visvanatha, undaunted like the
younger brother of Bhima, having at their head rake
tuhan mapatih of Daha (named) dyah Puruseévara, who
isa source of fright to enemies in warfare through his
prowess of arms, who is just an agent to strengthen
and to redouble the frmness of the seat of the suspi-
cious great King which is graced bya gate set with
gold and jewels and by a wishing-tree,”’ along with rake
tuhan mapatih of Majapahit (named) dyah Halayudha
having innumerable qualities and irreproachable signs,—
and communicated"! to paratanda rakryan of different

1? The Pandya-kings, on the other hand, bossted that they went
forth to conquer the seas, The iden is clently the same, viz., supremacy
over the ocean,

18 Lit, ‘Overlord of Sundarapindyadeva.’ .

19 The above translation may be aceepted if the text-portion dors
not denote another title of the king.

20 Another interpretation is possible, viz. “’sccie. great King who
reigned from the gate {of the throne} set with gold and jewels like
a wishing-tree,'’ ete,

Zl The construction is, "The orders of.........were received by
veneer dtd communicated tO ete.
TEN OLD-JAVANESE COPPER-PLATES FROM SIDOTEKA 143

departments (ofz.,) rakryan dmung (who is) pu Samaya
delighting in the -feld of war, rakryan kanuruhan
{who is) pu Anékakan, the destroyer of enemy-hosts
in the battle-held, rakrya-

24. n rangga (who is) pu Jalu, of unsurpassing valour
in warfare, rakryan mapatih of Kapulungan (who is)
pu Dedes, an irresistible hero, rakryan mapatih of
Matahun (named) pu Tanu who offers succour to
those afflicted in war, and the mantri Vrddha™ expert
in understanding demeanour (inggitajfia), sang aryya
patipati (who is} pu Kapat, extremely proficient in.........
sang Gryya wangsaprdna (who is pu Ménur, to whom
delights in warfare are the only adornments, sang aryya
rdjapardkrama surnamed Elam, irreproachable in politics
and discipline, sang dryya jJayapati (who is) pu Pamor,
prone to perfect’ truth, sang dGryya Sundardadhi-rajadasa
(who is) pu Kapasa, foremost in different kinds of
qualities for staunch attachment”, along with sang
aryya Rajadhikdra (who is) pu Tanga, always alert
through the speculation of extremely complicated
politics, certainly a punishing arm to the auspicious
great King who always talks of the protection of the
whole circle of Yavadvipa, and not leaving behind
(in consideration) the Hon. Dharmmédhikarana (lit.
judge) who is the distinguisher between righteous and
evil processes, sang pamget i tirwan*‘ (who is) Da-

b. ng dcdaryya Ragavijaya mapafji Sahasa who has
finished the (lore of) logic and grammar, sang pamgét
i kandamuhi (who is) dang dedryya Visvanatha mapaiji

2Z The other jnterpretotion imay be “the maniri (ie., minister)
who is old and expert in...” ete. The difficulty is whether we
cnn accept Vyddha as 6 proper name. It is doubtful if a minister

can be denoted without a name or a surname. Cf. Nagarake., 10+] :2.
23 The text as it standa yields no sense. | suggest the emenda:
tion into Sa(ke}fagramanurageguna. .
24 For on explanation of this and some of the following terms,
ace BKI., 90, pp. 239 ff.
144 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

Paragata who has finished the (lore of) Samkhya
philosophy, sang pamgét i manghuri (who is) dang
dedryya( ) handtha who has finished the (lore of} logic
and grammar, sang pamgét i pamwatan (who is) dang
acaryya Dharmmarija who has completed the lore of
logic, sang pamgét i jambi (who is) dang dearyye
Sivanatha who has finished the (lore of} logic and
grammar, the dharmmddhyaksa (i. e., religious superin-
tendent) of the Saiva institutions. (viz.,) sang pamgét
i ranu kaba yan (who is) dang dcaryya Samaranatha who
has finished the (lore of} legic and grammar, the
dharmmadhyakga of the Buddhist institutions, (viz.,) my
lord of Padélégan (who is} dang G@cdryya Kanakamuni
who has fimshed the Buddhist sciences of logic and
grammar. And accordingly the orders of the auspicious
great king were sent to the villages at Tuhafiaru and at
Kusambyan to bring into execution the sacred royal

3 a. command of the prasasti that has received the seal of
a pair of fishes. (These) places belonged to and were
sorted under Janatosan (who was) furnished with the
seals of Tuhaharu and Kusambyan that have been
marked off into free regions with an image thercon.
The reason thereof was the conduct of dyah Makara-
dhvaja who begged the excellent favour of the
auspicious great king for having the (villages of)
Tuhafiaru and Kusambyan marked off into free
regions with an image thercon. This may have the
consequence of freedom for dyah Makaradhvaja and _ his
children and the freedom of the groups of families in
Tuhafiaru and Kusambyan which cease thereby to be
dependent on others. Even so were their regulations
in earlier times that only the sima (i. c., lands} should
be free with an image thereon. Such were the
contents of the requests of dyah Makaradhvaja to
HH. M. the auspicious Great King. Rewards for staunch
devotion to the auspicious Great King were desired by*®

25 bit. ‘are the desires of’.
TEN OLD.JAVANESE COPPER-PLATES FROM SIDOTEKA 145

dyah Makaradhvaja. And all persons testified to the
virtuousness of dyah Makaradhvaja, because, without
vacillation dyah Makarachvaja did his best in
b. risk (P) of hia life to strive after the better stability
of the scat of the auspicious Great King who reigned
over the whole circle of Yavadvipa, thus fulfilling the
traits of a good son. For this staunch devotion, he
always tried®" not to be led astray from (the path of}
conduct and reason, and always imitated the example of
philanthropic works (set) by the auspicious Great King.
The regards for the auspicious Great King bore fruits
in that these always prompted him*’ {to avoid) what
must be thrown out and (to do) what must be retained.
Such was the conduct of dyah Makaradhvaja. !n
consequence of this fact, the auspicious Great King
bestowed the favour. Indeed, the. auspicious Great
King himself was cognisant of the sincerity of dyah
Makaracdhvaja and his son’s devotion that added !ustre
to their family by their services to the auspicious
Great King. !n consequence of these, the substance of
the request of dyah Makaradhvaja was approved by
the auspicious Great King. It had this consequence
that all men teshfied to the righteousness of the
auspicious Great King. This one (i. e., Makaradhvaja)
could not but love (him) and (accordingly), in full
measure, he performed the duties of an excellent
4 aq. servant and (this), without dissociating himself from
philanthropic works done by the auspicious Great King
who has indeed been called an incarnation of Vignu.
(This) cxtremely noble personage has been installed

26 Lit, ‘considered’.

27 Probably the king is ivtended here. Cf. a eimilac pasange in
the Penampihan inscriplien of 119] Sake. See O/O.. LXXIX, pl. 4a
or [GIS., Vol. Il, pp. 39, 66.
146 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

in each temple*® of the kingdom of Majapahit through
the instrumentality of rake tuhan mapatih (who is) dyah
Purusegvara, exercising suzerainty over all people in
the whole circle of Yavadvipa, subjugating, in the first
place, the islands of Madura and Tafijungpura.”” These
now presented the income and expenditure (ayabyaya'’’
of all persons who, with devotion, always paid respects
to H. M. the auspicious Great King. Moreover, the
work of the inhabitants*’ {?) of each of these and other
islands consisted in the gift of flower-baskets*? without
fail(?) as each year arrived. In consequence of the
fact that (the king) also delighted in the offerings of
homage of the excellent servant who practised philan-
thropic works (Kaparahitan), (the latter) maintained
the stability of his own dharmma, such as, rituals,
mumbling (of mantras) and concentration on prayer,
(So there was) the bestowal of the excellent favour from
the auspicious Great King who is known

b. as having the expression of an image of Visnu. The
auspicious Great King can be inimical or friendly to all
persons. Dyah Makaradhvaja however is a fit person
for the bestowal of the excellent favour, in consequence
of which this was tranaformed into the sacred royal
command of the pragasti that has received the seal

28 Prasada may be equal to prasada, of which the Skt. meaning
is ‘palace’, the Old-Jav. meaning is “temple’. If the literal imeaning
with prasad@ has to be telained, the passage should be translated as,
* oueMajapahit which is gormparable to oa gift of favour’) This would
be of great significance for the history of this period.

29) Borneo.

30 Both in Sanskiit as well as Old- Javanese adyabyaya menna
‘income and expendituie’. Probably, by byaya of the text we have
to understand the ‘means of expenditure’. In ikat ease both the words

are almost synonymous.

31 Pe da=Pada? Po-da is not known to me. Pera which may be in-
tended here is the equivalent of Skt. Paura, t.¢., citizens. In Old Javanese,
Skt. au is equal to o., ¢.g., gorawe for paurawa, etc,

32 Cf. this passage with OfO., p. 14, imscr. No, XII. 8.4; alae
OfO., p. 31, inser. No. MATIL 7,
TEN OLD: JAVANESE COPPER-PLATES FROM SIDOTEKA 14?

of a pair of fishes. (This) has to be taken care of by
the community of Tuhafiaru and Kusambyan which
have been marked off into free regions with an image
thereon. These may not be interfered with by others.
Such were their regulations in early times. Only the
community at Tuhafaru and the community at Kusam-
byan are the sole authority over all their valleys and
mounts (extending) up to arid grounds (and) merasses,
What now concerns is the measurement of the grounds
of Tuhafiaru and Kusambya(n). In the East, they are
margined by Pamulung; in the direction of the South
they emerge out of (i. e-, margined by) the river with
elevation towards the South-east; they go in the direc-
tion of Tugu Kulumpang separating from Pamulung
and Kawalédan and. the centre of Wadu; in the
direction of the West they bend in be

5 a. the South-West and come to the South ; they separate
from the middle of Wanu and, in the direction of the
West, they touch the South-West with the Western side
stretching up to the bank of the river; (they) separate
from the middle of the village™ towards the South (but)
follow the bank~of the river; towards the West (they}
follow the bank of the river; stretching towards the
North-East they separate from the middle of the village
(and) from Padada; going by the direction of the
North (they) separate from Padada; going by the direc-
tion of the North and coming towards the West they
separate from Padada; in the North-Eastern direction
they come across a bend(?)*; in the direction of the
North they stretch outin elevation towards the North-
West; they separate from Bana’ and Pangeran ; going

33 Another possible constuction is, “they separaic from the
middle of the vitlage; towards the South they follow.........° ete.

34. The phrase aniku ielawe in connexion with a boundary also
occurs in the Gedangan inser. of 782 $.E, Vide VG., VII, pl. IV, b;
also in K.O., p. 7, inset. No. tl, 20, 3.

35 A place-name or a forest?
148 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

by the direction of the East towards the North they
separate from Pengeran ; further, going in the direction
of the East (they} rise in elevation towards the North-
East; they again separate from Pangeran and Panulung,
bending only at the South-West; further, going by the
direction of the South and stretching towards the
East they separate from Pamulung. Such are the
b, boundaries of the ground of Tuhafiaru and of
Kusambyan. There are sawah-felds with fruits and
cloisters standing in relation to the community of
Tuhafiaru with dyah Makaradhvaja, The sawah-fields
are t@mpah | in measurement: further, the community
of Kusambyan standing in relation to dyah Makara-
dhvaja have sawah-fields (measuring) i¢mpah |. These
may be trod upon and inherited up to the remotest future
and enjoyed by the children and further progeny of
dyah Makaradhvaja, without being opposed by the
community of Tuhafiaru and the community' of
Kusambyan. Because fruits and cloisters completely
stand in relation to dyah Makaradhvaja. Such are
the regulations of the free regions of Tuhafaru and
Kusambyan. And further, the regulations of both are
that only the free regions” with an image thereon
may never be disturbed by tbe future kings and
ministers up to the remotest future and may not be
interfered with by the

6 a. ndyaka, pratyaya; these may not be met and
visited, robbed and attacked by the royal servants,
great and small, who travel far and near, and may
not be trodden™ upon by being brought under all the
worthy three (ministers, viz., Pangkur, tirip, *’ and
pinghe,”* wahuta réma ; further, all of the mangilala

36 For the original meaning of this word (Katamana) see,
Kawi-Balin. Wdb., Il, p. 747; TBG., LXV, p. 244, En. 69,

37. The copyist omlia here the name of the other, — viz.,
jowan, which we usually find in the other records. cf. OfO., LXVIII,
second face 13; OF O., LX, first face, 19.

38° «Also spelt ag Pinghnai.
TEN OLD-JAVANESE COPPER-PLATES FROM SIDOTEKA 149

drwyahaji,** wuluwulu,“° Parawuluwulu,’ (whether)

great or amall, having at their head migra paramisra,”
panghurang,“ kring,* padém,” manimpiki,“* paranakan“
mus galuh,** mangrtfici,*" manghuri parang, sungka,
dhira,”® pangaruhan,*’ sungging,”’ pangunéngan,” tafi,°*
watu tajom,°° sukun,"* (ha) lu warek,’’ rakasang,**

39 Collectors of taxes. Vide TBG., LYIII, p. 395, also dl. LIX,
pp. 130, 159 fin. 2.

40 Artisans jn employment of the king?

4] Apparently o class of people.

42 In VG., VIE, p. 24, Kern translated this avord by ‘great and
petty usurers’. Dr, Stutterheim plausibly suggeste that the terms may
signify "Chiefs’, Vide TBG., LXV, pn. 246,

43 Kern translated this word by ‘mendicant friar’ in VG., VIL,
p. 47; Dr, Stutterheim plausibly suggzsts that the term signifies tuhan,
ie, “older’, "village-head’, ete.

44 A certain class of monks? cf, Kern,’ vG., - Vil, p. 35.

45 Apparently a class of persons. Elsewhere we find padem apuy
which literally means ‘the extinguishing of fre’. For a detailed note
on this term, see TBG,, LXV, np. 247,

46 Cabinet-workers? Vide, Kawi-Balin. Wd., IV, p, 521,

47 Kern translatea this term’ by ‘one belonging to a mixed caste”
in VG., VIL p. 47.

48 Goldsmith.

49 The root of the word is rife] meaning ‘kind, aort’, etc. Can
the term mean ‘one who describes things’ that is an inspector?

50 For a detailed note, see Berg, MiddcHavaansche Historische
Treditie, pp. 19 &., TBG., LXV, p. 254 tf. Here a class of smiths is
probably intended. Marang, sungke and dhira are articles of smith-
work with special referenee to weapona(?),

5] A class of smiths see THG,, LXV,, pp, 228 f., Fn. Bl.

52 Apparently a class of persons.

53° Apparently on class of persons, The root uneng dara not help
us much in discovering its slgnificance,

54 Apparently a class of peraons.

55 A grinder of stones,

56 A class of medical men who invoke the aid of the gods to
cure diseases by making offerings to them.

57 The Bal. gloss lings jure pangajah, The term algnifies "persons
from the retinue of the king rendering services as director af ihe
orchestra, waydang and other entertainments.

58 A certain class of persons.
150 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

ramanang,’” piningle,*® katangaran,”' tapahaji,”* airhaji,™
malandang,*’ lea, lablab,"* kukap,*® pakuwangi,”” kutat,”’
tangkil,"* trépan,"" watu walang,” salyut,"’ maniga,”
pamanikan,” sikpan,’* rumban,”’ wilang wanwa™" wi—

59 Apparently a elass of persons,

60 According to v.d. Tuuk, this is a variation for wintngle. Bal.
gloss has jawa gending (musician ?).

6] Cook. Bal. gloss has juru jakan.

62 Dr. Stutterheim refera to Nagaraky, (75: 2: 4:}) where air haji
apptars as a mentri (mantri her haji} who takes cate of Brahmana hermits.
Here both the terms probably aignify some kind of jarag of heads
connected with religious duties. Dr. Stutterheim is probably right in
thinking that the use of the word fapa in the sense of atcetic is not very
probable here. gs :

63 See Kawi-Balin. Wdb., IV, 584. The term signifies someone
who institutes o dice-play or cock-scrapping and collects If p.c.

64 A certain clogs of peisons.

65 Lit. artocarpas incisa or bread-fruit tree. Ita significance here
ia uncertain. a é

66 Apparently a class of persons,

67 [In a similar place in K.O., p. 16, insce, VII, 4a, 1, we hove
hutak, meaning a class of officers. Kutai ts not known to me.

68 A class of officers in the special service of the King. See
T.B.G., LXV, p. 252; also Kawi-Belin, Wdb., IV, p. 73.

69 A class of persons {officers ?}.

70 This is probably a class of persons playing m certain role in
connexion with erection of sacred stones, See T.B.G., LXV. pp. 255-6.

7] A clos of musicians?

92 Kem brings this word into relation with the Jav. Patri meaning
‘soldiers’. This is probably a secondary meaning. The root is ma+tige.
Hence it means persons joining three things, i¢., wicker-work-makers.
Vide T.H.G., LXV, p. 256.

73 Jewellers.
74 A. class of officers. The interpretation of this term by Stutter-

heim (op. cit.) appears doubtful to me on account of the occurrence of
pamanikan between maniga and sikpan.

75 Setters of jewels.
76 ‘Land-teller’ (Kern, V.G., VII, p. 48}; secording to Stutterheim

‘division (divider?) of grounds in communal possession’.
TEN OLD-JAVANESE COPPER-PLATES FROM SIDOTEKA 15]

b. jikawah,” panggare,"* tingkis,"” mawi,"" manambangi,™
fanghiran,”’ tuhadagang,” tuhanambi,“ tuha judi,"
juru gosali,"’ mangrumbe,”” manggufije," juru huajéman,™
jura = jalir,"’— pabisir,”' pawuruk,” pangjungkung,”
pawungkunung,”* pakalangkang, pakilingking,""
linggang, srepan,** karéréngan,” pulung padi,”
pawlangwilang,”’ pakuda.’’’ ~~ pahaliman,'®' urutan,*??
dampulan,'"" tpung Rawung,'”' sungsung,’” pangirang'”*

7? «6‘Pot-washers’ (Kern, f6id.. pp. 47 ff.) Stutterheim suggests
persona with the task of bathing women 40 days after their delivery.’
Sec T.B8.G.. LXV, pp. 257 ff.

78 Apparently ao clasa of persona.

79° Also spelt tangkes. A class of peraons probably connected in
some way with war-armour.

BO Workers of aiticles with’ bamboo?

81 Makers of ropes.

82 A class of persons,

83) Tradera,

84 Medical man or seeker of roots of medical plants?

85 Officers having control over houses instituting dice-gamcs.

86 Elsewhere tuha gusali, smiths.

87 Corresponding to Indian ca&ranas?

88 According to Juynboll, festoou-makers for Kris,

89 A class of persons.

90 The head of prostitutes.

9] A class of persons.

92 A ferry-man.

93 Apparently a class of persons, Crew of ships?

94° A class of pergons.

95 Both mean heads of tice-granaries.

96 A class of persons.

97. A class of officers.

98 Binders of padi.

99 Slaves engaged for falconry?

100 Officers over hoses.

101 Officer over clephauts.

102 Apparently a clssa of people.

103 An attendant of horses.

104 Copyiats of pafm-leaf MSS. Vide also TBG., LXV, p. 260.

105 Messenger.

106° The name of this officer hes been repeated twice, See note on
pangherang in 6 a.
E52 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

7 wii hapa,’ wli pafijut,’** wii wadung,'”

migranginangin,'!? pabrési,""" pakatimang,’"
palamak,'” sinagiha,’ sahulun haji,’"’ royal slaves of
the immer apartments, etc,, all (such persons) may not
tread upon the free regions of Tuhafiaru and
Kusambyan. Even so," the good and bad things
{occurring in these free regions), suchas, the pinang
-blossom that bears no fruit, a pumpkin that creeps
along the ground, death, corpse bedewed,'’* blood
spilt on the

7 a. ground,'” rashness in speech,’*° rashness with hands,'”°
sprinkled spittle that one must swallow, uncovering of

2) amok-making, molestation

wli iamba,"*
migrahino,’"

magically forged weapons,

107 Dealers in ropes.

168 Dealera in lime. » ¢

109 Dealers in lights, luminaries, : ete.

110 Dealers in hatchets. -

lil An officer who brings (3) orders (of the King?}. Seo TBG..
LXY¥, p. 258,

112 lt signifies buffoon. cf, also ibid., p. 258; BRI, 1924, p. 284.

113. According to Kern =(VG., VII, p. 49), cushion-catricra of ihe King.

114 Dealers of katimang-iteca?

115) Tallow-chandler.

116 A clogs of officers.

7) According ta Kern (VG., VU, p. 49}, ‘slaves of landlords, elaves
maintained owt of luxury’, Stutterheim suggests ‘slaves coming io the
king's possession out of misdeeds. Sec THG., LXV, p. 266.

118 This is n stereotyped passage and already occurs in the Gédangan
inser. of 782 8.E., plate V1, b. Vide Kern, VG., VII, p. 36. We are x0
far removed from Old-Javanese times and language thai we do not pre:
perly understand ihe algnificance of the passage. In recent yeats,
Dr, Stutterheim has thrown some lighi on it,

9 Vide Jonker, Een Oudjaesansch. wetbeck, 1885, ort. & and 67.
The ‘blood spilt’ was gathered by mischievious persons and this formed
a kind of poison; the ground thereunder was regarded ns antidote to it.
So ‘blood spilt’ was dreaded by the Javanese people. See Babad Tanch
jawi, pp. 264-266, ed. Meinema. JBG., LXV, p. 271, fn. 74.

120 Vakpbaiugye and Dagdaparusya of Skt. jurists.

121 This waa supposed to let loose the magical might of metals with
which the weapon waa constructed. C/, BKI., 1915, p. 246; TBG. LXV.
p. 272.
TEN OLD-JAVANESE COPPER-PLATES FROM SIDOTEKA 153

of women, ?7".......c00!79 all sorts of punishments, abuse s,
—with all of them only the community (of Tuhafaru
and Kusambyan) are solely concerned. (So also) with
sosccece’™) (the trades in) black paints (?), lights, lac,
carey the making of roofs, thickening (3?) of
morinda citrifolia,’’ purple-red paints, red paints (>),
tapes, blue dying-stuff, sugar, pots, turner’s work,
combs, shuttle (?) for the spinning wheel, apinning
cotton, linen umbrella of different colours, leaf-sheath,
sirth-plums,?" sheath (>), wicker-works, nct, fish seized
with a kind of net. sack, birds that have been seized,
beast-trapping, fancy buttons,—as long as these are
found in (the villages of) Tuhafaru and Kusambyan,
they are always subject to the authority of the
community. Further, the taxes due to the King (from
these places) are also the possessions of the community

that can
b. transact business in such things as beasts; (they)
ean sell cotton-cloths,....-:,)?’ art metal-worka,.......27"

jewels (2). Each ‘'master’’ can transact business with
baskets having the products of arid grounds, having the
products of irrigated fields {sawahs}, having the products
of marshy lands, having the products of seas, having the

122 Kern translaled this word by ‘insolenee’ in his edilion of the
Gédongan inscription, Dr. Stutterheim much more plausibly suggests
the above meaning.

123) The known meanings of these words do not appear to be applicable
here,

124 This word is not known to me, The root appears te be garang :
ang-+um+garang. Korang is a kind of Aower.

125 In a corresponding place of the Wonagiri inscription (FBG.,
LXXIV, pp. 286, 244 and f.n. 3 on p. 2944 we lave momukal wungkuda,
ic., the thickening of wungkudu, In the Singosari plate (7 BG., LXV,
po. 236, 276) we ‘have monulang wangkudu apparently in the above sense.
The word twoungkuda denotes 0 kind of plant with the root of which one
paints cotton.

126 The text has enipahse+sipah {=Sepah ?),

127 The known meanings of the word are not applicable here. The
word has been repealed twice in the same breath.

9
154 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

products of four (fit. two and two) beasts. These are the
fixed limits. If buffaloes are driven (? into the market-
place of the free regions then} 20 buffaloes (are free
from taxes); if cows are driven (?), 40 cows: if goats are
driven (>), 80 goats; if boars are driven (?}, all boars may
be chased away ; if geese are driven (3), full one cage
(is free) ; in transport-service, by rolling up and
packing up (things), two lumpangs (are free). The
iron-smith, potter, goldsmith, brass-smith, manufacturer
of shields, amaranggi,'"* also the two gusalis, afukis,'*"
the two pdjarans, carpenter, each ''’master’’ may carry
with one yoke (i. ¢., cross-beam) two shoulder-loads,'””
also... 0 {may carry with one yoke) two (shoulder-
loads), the washer (may carry with one yoke)

8 a. two—"'. These then are’ the regulations about the
business of Tuhafiaru and Kusambyan, of them both.
And if there is anything more outside these stipulations,
this may be touched (i. ¢., taxed) by the Hon. Collectors
of royal taxes (and) others. Others are certainly under
the authority of the Community of Tuhafiaru and
Kusambyan for enjoyment with-lads (and) children.
They can use foot-bells and play with Kangsi (musical
instruments), They can open three-coloured umbrella,
use the uncared-for ampyal-bamboos, small yellow
cocoanuts, flowers, grass, breast-plate {falisman?). They
can knot up hair-wreaths, make the feet blue-black—,'*?
for maintenance, desire for gamelan (music), enjoy—,'**
crabs, waka plants—,'** salve, herbs, plantains ; they

128 Apparently a class of persons.

129 The text has acedar ...... ... pacadaran which also occurs in the
copper-plates from Singasari (TBG., LAV, p. 267). In the footnote to
these words on p. 275, Dr, Stutterheim says that cadar may be due to
confusion for dadar. In that case we have io assume that these
words were not only misunderstood by the copyist of the Singasari
copper-plate hut also by the writer of the OfO., No, AXX, 20, and also
the copyist of the record under review, who lived in different centuries.

130 Apparently a class of persons,

131 The word ig not known to me.

132) The known meanings of this word do not yield any sense here.
TEN OLD-JAVANESE COPPER-PLATES FROM SIDOTEKA 155

can use elephant-hook (ankuga}, dress themselves
in all kinds of precious metals (raina) having jewels
(ma@nik} of great size in the frst instance, fine stuffs of
clothes (bananién) to cover themselvea up, wooden
Dells...cccccccea? purificatory things—,?? extend (3)
writing sheets, enjoy milk, place their mouths on the
plate of honey (madhuparka}, live here, use on each
side precious stones of different colours, adorn
6. one another with flowers (2}.""° Each other may (see)
to the purity of the eunuch (?),'* (offerings like} prds
watang, pras bunder, pras cira, pras brisadi, pras
siddhayuga, pras fuwuhiuwehan. They can {also}
use golden bracelets on hands and on feet, the sides
(being) carved out in gold; clothes may be twisted
into thin folds, borne, and put on. They can admit
(other) lads who can play music;- they can carry (>)
dagger; they can ride on horses, ox, use nose-ring,
take part in social gatherings, put on (?) thread-girdle,
loin-cloth ; they can enjoy rich dishes {rajamahsa), fight
with the help of clubs* (}} when they can catch hold
of thieves ; they can chase run-away slaves but cannot
kill (the slaves) who have run away; they can chase
thieves who have stolen shortly before and who may
be made to pay back according to their guilt; they can
shave the lade and slaves. Such as these can be done
by the community of Tuhafiaru and Kusambyan, after
the favour of the auspicious Great King was brought
to a fruition and permanently fixed. After that the
community of Tuhafiaru and the community of Kusam-
byan paid homage to

9a. and culogised the auspicious Great King, according
to their ability. Further, the paratandas of different
affaira received fixed sums, as far as possible, each
according to the usual custom. Again, the parasdmyas

133) Kembungan~Kambengen?
134 Tt is notelear if this meaning should be accepted hete,
135 Gdang=gading?
156 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

(?. e., the subjects) as were made head-officers of the
neighbouring places received fixed sums according to
the nature of the usual custom. After the completion
of (these) gifts (2) fixed sums were also placed for offer-
ings to awaju, raweh, wadihatt and the akuder, and
each (reccived) silver 1 ma and pieces of cloth. (Then)
stood up the wadihati in the midst of the assembly
and under the turombukan.'** Thereupon the Rev,

Uttarasangga'™’ binding the mouth and covering the
front-part with a jacket confirmed the region,'“* according
to the usual custom of marking off free regions in earlier
times, (thus) striven after by the anawajus and the
natives. The akedur came forward and separated the
neck of the cock, smashed the egg,’"’ came to the front
im anger, cursed, swore and spoke out loudly (>)

b. oaths according to custom. His words were: Om! Be
gracious, you all gods, Haricandana, the great seer Agas-
tya, East, South, West, North, Zenith, Nether, Middle, Sun,
Moon, Earth, Water, spirit, wind, ether, laws, day and
night, the three'*’ twilichts, yaksas, raksasas, pisdcas,
pretas, demons, gandharvas, kinnaras, the Great Serpent,
Yama, Varuna, Kuvera, the son of Vasava, the deities,
the five Kuégikas, Nandiévara, Mahakala, Ganega, the
king of serpents, the goddesa Durga, the four aéramas,
Ananta, the deities of Time and Death, also all beings
(bhutagene), you who are known to protect the circle
of the island of Java, you all witnesses who see far
and near, by day and by night, you who are incarnate

136 Tent?

137 Cf, UOfO,, No. Xl, a 7; OFG., No, XLVIII, second face, 20.
From these, ullarasangga appears to be a title. Cf, this pasange with
QJO,, XLVI, second face, 20.21,

138 Or, “stood upon the feet’,

139 The reason why the cock was killed and the egg was smashed is
explicitly stated in KO., [| have translated this record for the forth-
coming Dacca University Studies, Vol. 1.

140 Je ehoulkd] be two povilights. cf, OJO., XLII, second face, 27;
OfO,, XILVIII, second Ince, 24, ete.
TEN O1.D-JAVANESE COPPER-PLATES FROM SIDOTEKA 157

in all beings, hear’! this swear, curse and oaths of mine
to you, O all gods, as long as the man; great or small,
of evil disposition (3), whether of the four varnas, (viz.,)
Brahmana, Kgatriya, Vai-

IQ a. éya, Sidra, or (lit, and also)? of the four agramas,
(viz.,) Brahmaciri, Grhastha, Vanaprastha, Bhikeuka,
and pinghay, awajuh, ekurug, anck thani, having at
their head the future kings and ministers, as long as
he violates the independence of the free regions of
Tuhafiaru and Kusambyan, and hinders and re-
peatedly opposes {the effects of this edict), he may go
to ruin, from now on to the remotest future. Above
all, if the sang hyang upala sima f{i.c., the sacred
stone} is pulled off (by any one) and removed with-
out its proper place to sit upon,—all of them (thus)
making little of the independence © of the free regions
of Tuhafiaru and Kusambyan, ‘as ‘the result of their
deeds, may be killed by you, O gods, they may be
killed by you! When such person goes away (or)
passes alone in the held (igal}, he may be bitten by
poisonous snakes; in the forest he may step over
(i.c., be entangled in) tree-roots, be attacked by tigers.
in the water (he may be) bitten by the crocodile;
in the sea (he may be) destroyed by ferocious fishes,
(viz.,) prangprang, timinggala (°gila}, maha-

b. gila, aquatic (?) snakes; when he descends he may
be pinched by the sharp points of stones, rolled into
the mountain chasm, confused by sleet (3); when he
goes during the time of rain (he may he) struck by
lightning ; when he remains in the dwelling-place he
may be scorched’ by vajragni (i. e., the fire of vajra),
without (finding time to} turn backwards; he may be

141 The spelling dragé is rather uncommon. Usually it js rengé,
occasionally dengé,

142 The text has alhaca, a better reading would be athava.

143 Lit, ‘met by, overthrown by’. The root is iba meaning ‘fall’.
158 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

pushed on the frontside, killed onthe leftaide, again
on the rightside, his forehead may be smashed,
his chest may be smashed, his belly may be ripped
open, hie entrails may be drawn out, his brains may be
sipped up, his blood may be drunk up, hie flesh may
be eaten up, he may be kicked at length to die, he may
be thrown into the Mahdraurava-hell and further suffer
sorrows. (This is} the result of showing (?) evil
propensities which were seen by the thirteen witnesses it
Let that be 30! Om1 let that be accomplished ||Ojf

144 Thirteen deities are intended here.
NOTICES OF BOOKS

On two recent reconstructions of a Sanskrit Hymn
transliterated with Chinese characters : By Baron A. von
Stael-Holstein, Peiping.

Buddhist Sanskrit texte were not only translated into
different languagea in different lands outside India, such as
Tibet and China, but some of them were also transliterated
in their own characters. The transliterated works mostly
contain sacred formulas called mantras in Sanskrit, shags in
Tibetan and chau in Chinese. The Tibetan and Chinese
people believed just like the‘Indians, from whom they Jearnt
Buddhism, that the sacred formulas were to be recited in
their original forma, otherwise they would be useless. This
is why the formulas were transliterated. So in China the
Emperor Ch'ien Lung declared that while the canonical
texts might be translated, the formulas had to be tranalite-
rated. Now the work of transliteration presented no difficulty
to the Tibetans, for they possess a phonetic script, which was
adopted from the Indians, but that was not the case with
the Chinese people, as the phonetic value of the Chinese
characters has not been the same in different provinces for
many centuries past. In 1800 A.D. a Commission headed
by an Imperial Prince was appointed for the revision of
all the sacred formulas contained in the Chinese Buddhist
canon and jit succeeded fairly well whenever the counter-
parts of the formulas transliterated in Chinese characters
were found transcribed in Tibetan acript in the sacred books
of Tibet.

Now there is a small work, Lokegvara stotra, only in
eight stanzas in the Tofaka metre. It was twice translated
into Chinese—first under the Emperor Chien Lung, and then
under the Commission referred to above. The Commission
declared that it did not find its counterpart in the Tibetan
worka. Hence the transliteration was most unsatisfactory.
160 NOTICES OF BOOKS

Prof. Staél-Holstein, who is a well-known expert in such
works, has, therefore, attempted in the present paper a ncw
reconstruction of the text basing it on the former two with
the help of the Tibetan translation, and we can safely say
that he has greatly succeeded,

The original Sanskrit work which has not yet been found
is by Bhikguni Laksmi (Dge. Slo. ma. Dpal. ma),—whose
memory is still highly respected in Tibet. While the name
of the Tibetan translator is not known, the Chinese transla-
tion js attributed to one Fa T’ien (Dharmadeva), an Indian
Buddhist monk, who came to China in the ]0th century from
Nalanda.

It may be noted here that there is another Lokeévara
stotra by Caryadipa in the Tanjur.

In hia re-construction of the stotra Prof. Sta#l-Holstein
has put first the Tibetan translation and when the two Chinese
transliterations, the second of them being both in Chinese and
Roman characters, and then he gives his own transliteration
which clearly shows his great labour and erudition. He has
added an English translation and notes full of various infor-
mation, The Chinese transliterations are so defective that
here and there a line or half a line could not be
re-constructed, and in such cases even the Tibetan translation
does not give any help. So it ia evident that in these places
the Tibetan translation itself could not strictly follow the
original Sanskrit. Let us take one example: line 235,
which, as finally settled by Prof, Sta#l-Holstein, according to
the two old transliterations and the Tibetan translation,
runs as follows :—/varavyddtharam bahusankhyakaram. Here
the reading bahu is clearly supported by the two translitera-
tions, but not by the Tibetan translation, which reads mchog
meaning the best (vara, uitama, ete.) and in no case, so far
as | know, ‘much’ (or bahu) in Sanskrit. One thing may be
noted here. Prof. Holstein rightly says that metrically the
reading oyddi is here wrong, as the second syllable of the
line must be short. Hence, he observes that the original
version may have had the reading roga for vyddhi. It
appears that the language of the stotra was influenced by
NOTICES OF BOOKS iol

the Buddhist Sanskrit and so there was vadhi for vyadhi.
This view is supported by some other words in the text, In
line 31 there is veraksira, which on the same ground cannot
be admitted and should be read as khira in place of Sanskrit
ksira ‘milk’. So in line 32 for the samc reason instead of
Sti potalakadhi*, one should read Siri poto’, This view is
further supported by line 29, Here Tib. (TF) glan po dregs
is in Sanskrit miatfagaja (strictly gajamatta in the order of
the Tibetan words). Accorclingly the transliteration to suit the
metre should, be gajamatfa and not gnjamenda, as suggested
by Prof. Staél-Holstein. But strictly in Sanskrit the adjective
must come before the noun in such cases, and one cannot
write gajamatta. Yet according to both the transliterations
the former is the actual reading- and, as such, it shows here
the influence of the Buddhist Sanskrit. And | think to this
is due mekhala for mekhald in line 2). Take also into consi-
deration the construction of the whole line which according
to the Tib. version (gser mchog ska rogs nor buhi rgyan
idan) may literally suggest in Sanskrit prose hemavara (or
varahema) mekholémanibhdsanavantam.

VIDHUSHEKHARA BHATTACHARYA

On a Peking Edition of the Tibatan Kanjur: By Baron
A. von Staél-Holstein, Peiping.

This is a pamphlet on a Peking edition of the Kanjur,
one of the two great divisions of the Tibetan Buddhist
canons, which seems to be unknown in the West. Only two
printed Peking editions of the Kanjur are generally known
to modem scholars, one being published in 1410 A.D. and
the other in 1700 A.D. The complete set of the former is
extremely rare. The Prussian State Library possesses only
thirty-six volumes out of one hundred and six, which are to
be found in the Yung Ho Kung lamasery of Peking, But
a short document, reproduced in a plate by the author, which
is found in several volumes of an edition of the Kanyur with
him, clearly shows that in Peking there was another edition
162 NOTICES OF BOOKS

of the work in 1692 A.D. According to the same document
a Bhikgu Danasagara (Dge. Siong. Sbyin. pa. rgya meho)
attached to a temple called Ch’ung Kuo Ssn, waa responsible
for that edition. Prof, Holstein thinks and substantiates his
statement that for the two editions in 1692 and 1900 the same
blocks were used after making neccssary corrections.

In India we have a few seta (perhaps not more than five,
excluding a few sets more in monasteries in Darjeeling and
its neighbourhood) of the Tanjur and Kanjur, but all of them
are of the Narthang edition. We are not yet fortunate
enough to have an edition even of Derge (Sde. dge}. It is
to be hoped that the Ustiversity of Calcutta, which has
recently made arrangements for Tibetan and Chinese studies.
will gradually remove the want of the different editions of
these canonical works. i

a, VIDHUSHEKHARA BHATTACHARYA

Nawaruci! Jnieiding, Middel-Javaansche Prozatekst,
Vertaling: By M. Prijohoetomo; Groningen den Haag-
Batavia, 1934; 237 pp.

This is an excellent thesis for doctorate of the University
of Utrecht by the Javanese scholar Prijohoetomo, who pre-
pared his work under the distinguished guidance of Pro-
fessors Gonda, Juynboll and others. The great importance
of the Middle-Javanese text, so beautifully edited here along
with a Dutch translation, was first emphasised by Dr. H.
N, van der Tuuk in JRAS., 1881 (pp. 53-54), and the
manuscripts of Nawaruci used by the latter were described
by Dr. J. Brandes. Juynboll later gave a short sketch of the
contents of the prose redaction along with illuminating notes.
The fourth scholar who paid attention to Nawaruci is Dr. R.
Goris, who published various details about it in his Bijdrage
tot de kennis der Oud-Javaansche en Balineesche theologie.

The contents of the work are as follows :—

At the order of Drona, Bhima leaves Gajahoya and goes
in search of magic water. On the way he kills two nagas,
who transpired to have been the spirits Sarasambaddha and
NOTICES OF BOOKS 163

Harsanandi respectively and moreover he encounters Indra
in disguise. Bhima continues his journey, meets the sage
Nawaruci and receives philosophical instruction from him.
At length Bhima reaches the source of magie water and
gives the water to Drona. Under the samie Angkusprana,
Bhima practises austcrities in Prthwijati, in course of which
he has to face various ordeals, Purified and strengthened
by these austerities, Bhima at last returns to Indraprastha
and is joyously received by his brothers.

The author of the present work has moreover proved that
Nawaruci owes much of its style and contents to the
renowned Arjuna-Vivahe; and regarding the date he says
that it was written between 1500 and 1619 A.D.

B, G,

Midden-Oost Borneo Expeditte 1925. Uitgave van he
Indisech Comite voor Wetenschaplijke Onderzockingen,

This substantial volume of 423 pages contains the detailed
report of the Middle-East Borneo expedition undertaken in
1925 by a band of Dutch scholars who explored some very
imperfectly known parts of Borneo and gathered rich data
of great importance for the geography, ethnology, archeo-
logy, ete., of this island. The archzeological discoveries
have been briefly dealt with by Dr. Bosch at the end of the
volume in the chapter ‘Oudheifen in Koetei’, The author
at first describes the statues from Kombeng and divides them
into two groups: {I) the Saiva statues, such as Mahadeva,
Ganeéa, Nandigvara, ete., and (2) the Buddhistie statues, The
Saiva statues have been built as a rule according to orthodox
Hindu Javanese style. On the Buddhist side the siapas bear
the usual characteristics, where numerous variationg of the
forms may be observed among the images. The relation
between the Salva and the Buddhist deities, however,
remains obscure.

B. G.
164 NOTICES OF BOOKS

Indo-Tibotica, Vol. Ill: By Giuseppe Tucci, Reale
Academia d'Italia, Rome. 1935, 219 pp. +91 tables.

Prof. Tucci is an indefatigable worker in Tibetan
Buddhism. Previous to the publication of the present
volume, he had publiahed two volumes, the results of his
first expedition to Tibet. in 1933 he had undertaken a
second expedition and the results have been embodied in
this elegantly printed volume.

The learned professor devotes himself in this book to
the exposition of the artistic symbolism of the temples of
Western Tibet. Some of the temples, which the author
describes, had been written upon previously by other writers
e.g., by Francke and Shuttleworth; but the symbolism and
significance of their art treasures had not been so penetrat-
ingly guessed at by them. It is the temples of Spiti and
Kunavar that the author: takes into consideration in the
present volume, particularly the ones to be found at Tabo,
Lhalung, Chang and Nako. The description and discussion
of gl sug lag K’an and its artistic representations occupy the
largest space. The author describes the general aspect of
the temple, external and interna], takes into consideration
the statues which represent a Tantric cycle of Vairocana,
mentions the Tibetan sources of the cycle of Sarvavid
Vairocana, presents us with an iconographical description of
the thirty-six deities of Kun rig, discusses the Indian sourcea
of the cycle of Kun rig and the mandala of Vairocana and
draws out symbolical significance of this mandala. In
describing the paintings in the temple of gSer K'an, the
author discusses the methods and significance of the Tantric
invocation and the element of terror in the Tantric School.
In writing upon the temple at Lhalung the author corrects
some of the identifications of Shuttleworth, while in treating
the temples at Chang. he gives us an idea of the Tibetan
infernal deities. The introduction contains interesting
observations on the geography of western Tibet and traces
the diffusion of the various sects over the region. The
plates are all that could be desired in a book printed in the
country of the highest artistic tradition.
NOTICES OF BOOKS 165

The Royal Academy of Italy, which found the means for
the Professor to undertake his scientific expeditions to Tibet
and the cost of publication of the volumes, is to be
congratulated for the interest it is showing in Indian culture
and civilisation, Two Professors of Indology, Prof, Formichi
and the writer of the present volume, are members of this
august body and this is not only a distinction for the
professors themselves but for the country whose culture they
have made their fields of study. The Academy has
published, besides the volumes by Prof. Tucci, a magnificent
edition of the Mahabharata translated in Ottava rime by
the late-lamented Prof. Michele Kubskar. It was this
Professor's translation of some Vedic glokas that inspired
the famous verses of Italy's great poet Carducci to Aurora.
We hope that the interest shown by the Royal Academy
of Italy in India will continue unabated and that further
illuminating works on. India will be published under its
distinguished patronage.

P. N. Roy

De Indische Cuiltuurstroom (The Wave of Indian
Culture), by Dr. A. J. Bernet-Kempers, The Hague, 1934.

This pamphlet of twenty odd pages contains a lecture
delivered by Dr. Kempers on asauming his office as a
‘“Privaat docent"’ in the comparative culture-history of South-
East Asia at the University of Leyden, Holland, on the
7th of March, 1934.

The original is in Dutch. The following abstract may
prove useful to the English-knowing student,

South-East Asia stands here for India proper along with
the frontier parts of Central Asia, Nepal, Tibet, Further
India, Indian Archipelago and Ceylon. Modern researches
have resulted in amplifying the data about the cultures of
these countries as wel] as in discovering the unifying factors.
While Indian history benefits Jargely by the study of the past
civilization of the said countries, a knowledge of Indian
culture is indispensable for a real understanding of the
166 NOTICES OF BOOKS

latter. Such modern designations as East India, Further
India, Indian Archipelago, Indo-China, Indonesia, Insulindia,
Serindia, India Minor, etc., simply indicate that the cultures
of those countries contain purely Indian elements: the
language contains a number of Sanskrit words, the art shows
affinities with that of India proper, the religion is either
Buddhism or Sivaism, the literature deals with subjects from
the Mahabharata, the Ramayana, etc.

Regarding the spread of Indian culture, the author
imagines the trade to be the first medium. Merchants
sailed abroad from the eastern coast of South I[udia to
distant lands in the East. While transacting their business
in selling Indian goods and bringing home foreign products,
some of them settled there. In course of time they esta-
blished matrimonial relations with ,the indigenous people,
giving rise to what we may term the Indonesian race. This
new generation naturally inherited traditions of both the
lands, India proper and the native country. Meanwhile
there were other factors afoot, popularizing Indian ideals far
and wide in distant regions. Indian monarchs like Aégcka
extended their conquests sometimes beyond the limits of
present-day India and were thus responsible for the expan-
sion of Indian culture, Agoka was perhaps the first to send
out missionaries for the propagation of Buddhism, In this
way Mission has been another factor in the same process,
Later on, as during the Pala period in Bengal, monks as
well as other Hindus were impelled by the Muhammadan
invaders to quit home. They took refuge in other countries
and brought with them Indian customs to other peoples.

The author now inquires and himself answers. What
ig properly ‘Indian culture’? There are certain characteristics
in art, literature, religion and society common to all the
countries concerned, that are indicated by the term ‘Indian
culture’. It does not in reality mean that it is something
born of or belonging to the Indian soil, for there was a time
when the very characteristicy were a foreign import in India
or at least in certain parts of India. There were among the
natives like the Dravidians in India, and the new-comers
NOTICES OF BOOKS 167

interchange, adoption, assimilation and modification of ideas
and customs. Even when they were further dissipated, they
underwent various changes. Still all along they have kept
something akin all over that distinguishes the culture of the
countries concerned from that of the rest of the world. It
ig this something that is, for the sake of convenience,
entitled ‘Indian Culture’,

At the end, the author contests the suitability of the term
Greater India, adopted by recent writers to denote all the
countries that came into cultural contact with India proper.
His argument is that not all those countries at all times have
been influenced exclusively by Indian civilization.

B. CH. CHHABRA
MISCELLANY

The Greater India Soctefy along with other learned ins-
titutions in and outside India haa to mourn the loss which
Oriental scholarship has sustained by the deaths of two
eminent scholars—Gabriel Ferrand and Louis Finot, Obituary
notices of these savants are published below.

* * * # ” + *

Thanks to the enlightened patronage of the Executive
Committee of the Post-Graduate Department of the Calcutta
University and especially to Mr. Syamma Prasad Mookerjee, the
Vice-Chancellor of the University, the Greater India Society
has at last been able to deposit its collection of books, perio-
dicals, reports, etc., in one of the rooms of the Asutosh
Buildings of the University. “Tt fa earnestly to be hopéd that
all serious atudents of the aubject in Calcutta will now be
tempted to utilise this important collection.

+ + * * * *

The Greater India Society acknowledges with grateful
thanks the receipt of a donation of Ra. 500/- made this
year by the National Council of Education, Bengal, for
meeting its publication expenses. The grateful acknowledg-
menta of the Society are also due to its esteemed member
Dr, Narendranath Law for his grant of a generous donation
of Rs. 100/- for this year.

# * 7 * 4 * *

During the last half year a fresh number of learned
societies have signified their willingness to place the Journal
of the Society or its publications or beth on their exchange-
lists. Among these apecial mention may be made of Institut
dea Etudes Orientales de 'Académic des Sciences, USSR..,
Leningrad; Institut fiir Vélkerkunde der Universitit Wien,
Vienna; Koninklijke Vereeniging Koleriaal Instituut,
Amsterdam: Koninklijk Instituut voor de Taal-, Land-, en
Volkerkunde van Nederlandsch-Indié, ‘s-Gravenhage. To
all these institutions the Society conveys its warmest thanks.
OBITUARY NOTICE
GABRIEL FERRAND

jt ig mot an unugual sight to discover some first-rate
scholars and technicians amongst the French group of
administrators. Paul Claudel, the eminent poet, is an able
ambassador of France and author of La Connaissance de
Est, Paul Painlevé was a great mathematician. George
Maspero, like his fathec Gaston Maspero, was an able officer
and a zealous historian. So Gabriel Ferrand was a Ministre
Plénipotentiaire in Persia before he won his fame as the
leading authority on Oriental geography in France. When
] reached Paris fifteen years ago, the illustrious Sinologist
Edouard Chavannes was just dead, but his friend and
colleague Professor Sylvain Lévi-was carrying on the glo-
rious tradition of French orientalism through a series of
brilliant studies. It was in his home that |.had tbe privilege
of being introduced to Mon, Ferrand, already retired from
diplomatic services and concentrating on his scientific
studies. As a pupil of -Prof, Lévi, ] was warmly invited to
the apartments of Mon. Ferrand on the Rue Racini where
| was surprised to find this ex-minister of the Republic
crowding his rooms with rare books and documents over
which he ever looked affectionately and wistfully. For the
World-War, as he said, interrupted the publication of so
many scientific studies, periodicals, etc., and his manuscript
pile was already heavy, crying for publication at an age
when the nation could ill afford money for intellectual pur-
suite, faced as it was, with grim economic crisis and pri-
vations. J found that Mon. Ferrand was famous already as
the author of Relations de voyages et texte geographiques
Arab Persans ct Turks relatifs 4 ['Extréme-Orient, published
between 1913 and 1914. In 1918, Mon. George Coedés
opened a new chapter in Greater Indian Studies with his
paper on the kingdom of Srivijaya (Le royaume de Cri-

I
170 OBITUARY NOTICES

vaya, BEFEO,, 1918). That forgotten chapter of Hindu-
Javanese history soon engaged the attention of eminent
orientalists like Prof. Krom, Dr. Vogel and Prof, Blagden.
A veteran geographer that he was, Mon. Ferrand started
goon a thorough documentation on the historical, geographi-
eal and other references to the kingdom of Srivyaya and
published a splendid monograph: L’Empire Sumotrancis
de Crivijaya (JA., July-October, 1922). It brought in a handy
volume all the pertinent texts in Chinese, Arabic, Persian,
etc., as well as the inscriptions (with translations) in Malaya,
Tamil and Sanskrit, not forgetting the famous [0th century
MS. of Nepal, mentioning ‘“Suvamapure Crivijayapure
Lokanatha,"" the value of which was first pointed out by
Prof, Alfred Foucher (vide FEtude sur liconographie
bouddhique de l'Inde, Paris, 1900}.

Mon. Ferrand was loved and admired by the world of
Orientalists as he served very ‘ably in the capacity of
Honorary Secretary of the Société Asiatique of Paris which,
over a century ago {1826}, honoured Raja Rammohun Roy,
the first Indian savant, with the title of the Associate. We
are also grateful to Mon. Ferrand for his valuable aid in
procuring the rare books and periodicals on Indology that
have found their place in the rich Library of our Purodha,
Dr. Rabindranath Tagore’s Visva Bharati at Santi-Niketan.

Kacipas Nac

LOUIS FINOT

In the death of Mon. Louis Finot the world of French
scholarship has lost a brilliant representative and the family
of Indologists a most fruitful and loyal collaborator.

The thorough discipline of the Ecole des Chartres of the
University of Paris, combined with the initiation into
Sanskrit at the hand of no less a master than Sylvain Lévi,
made Finot a researcher of first-rate importance in the field

of orientalism. The French Schools of Athens (1850), of
OBITUARY NOTICES 171

Rome (1875} and of Cairo have already made the name of
French archaeologists respected all over the world. In 1867
Renan projected the Corpus [nscriptionom Semilicercm and
he was followed by James Darmesteter with his exhaustive
studies on the Avesia which was introduced into Europe
about a century carlier (1771) by the Pioneer Orientalist
Anquetil Duperron, During the last quarter of the 19th
century when Louis Finot grew from his early college days
into a mature scholar taking his Doctor's degree with a
thesis on the Sanskrit text of Ratnapariksa, Finot watched
his beloved professor Sylvain Lévi working with two masters
of French Indology Abel Bergaipne and Auguste Barth
editing the Sanskrit Inscriptions of Champa and Cambodge
and Emil Senart publishing his Inscriptions of Piyadasi.

In 1898 the great French archzeologist Michel Bréal
joined hands with Auguste Barth and Emil] Senart in develop-
ing the project of a French School of the Far East after
the models of the French Schools of Athens, Rome and
Cairo. Originally Chandernagore was selected, but it could
not materialise owing to the financial problems, which were
solved by Paul Doumer, the Governor General of Indo-
China, which thus came to possess that magnificent research-
centre and library of Hanoi: Ecole Frangaise d’Exiréme-
Orient, :

As the first Director of the Ecole, Mon. Finot rendered
services of the highest order. From the very first number
of the now famous Builetin, he had been contributing most
valuable articles and studies. The Religion of Champa
according to the monuments, Cambodian transcriptions,
Indo-Chinese studies, Origin of Indian colonisation,
Researches on Laotian liternture; List of Khmér manuscripts,
etc., are soine of his contributions; while in the domain of
Indo-Chinese cpigraphy his able editing, transcriptions and
translations will ever keep his name shining in that line of
studies. | cherish with pride and gratitude his Notes
d'Epigraphic Indo-Chinoise (1916) which he so kindly
presented to me, when [ had the privilege of enjoying the
hospitality of this Ecole in Hanoi, which [ visited on my
172 OBITUARY NOTICES

return trip from China and Japan (1924). Not only his
learned colleagues like Mon, Parmentier, Mon, Aurousseau,
Mon. Demiéville and others, but he afforded me the
greatest facilities in visitmg the wonderful monuments of
Hindu art in Champa and Cambodia: Nahtrang and
Phanrang, Angkor Thom, Angkor Vat and other historic
sites,

When we had the honour of inaugurating the GREATER
InDIA Society in 1926, Mon Finot wrote a highly sympathetic
note in the Bulletin (vide XXVII, pp. 504-7) and we got
his help and encouragement whenever we approached him.
This policy of collaboration has been continued by Mon.
George Coedés, the learned successor to Mon. Finot as the
Director of the Ecole. When a member of our Academic
Council, Dr, R. €. Majumdar of the Dacca University
visited the Ecole in Hanoi, he was warmly received and his
volume on the Ancient Indian Colonies of the Far East,
Champa, Vol. f, was reviewed and‘his learned article on
the Palozography oj ihe Inscriptions of Champa was
welcomed in the Bulletin, —

A veteran Sanskrit as he was, Mon. I'inct was a
great lover of the Buddha and Buddhism. He translated
many Buddhist texts and often contributed articles on Indo-
Chinese History and on Buddhism to the pages of Indian
Journals like the indian Historical Quarterly edited by our
esteemed colleague Dr. N. N. Law.

One of his recent articles was published in the latest issue
of the Bulletin on the former Governor-General of Indo-
China, Paul Doumer, who was assassinated as the President
of the Republic (May, 1932). lt was M. Doumer who by
his Statute of 5th Deccmber, 1898, brought the Ecole
Francaise d'Extréme-Orient into existence and the tribute of
gratitude from its first Director M, Finot was very appro-
priate,

As he was a facile writer in English, M. Finot wrote
highly thoughtful and suggestive reviews of current literature
on Indology published by Indian and non-Indian writers.
Courteous by nature as he was, his courtesy never got the
OBITUARY NOTICES (73

better of his critical spirit, and his co-workers in the field
ever profited by his frank and creative criticisms.

M,. Finot was a sincere well-wisher and an inspiring
friend of the GREATER INDIA SOCIETY and we hope and pray
that his soul would rest in peace. He lived a life which we
can adequately describe only in his own words, which he
epplicd to the late M. Emil Senart in his obituary notice :
“Une grande &me consacreé sans réserve au service du vrai

et du bien.”
KaLipas Nac
Select Contents of Oriental Journals

Journal Aslatique, t. CORAIV, No. 4.

E. Benveniste—Notes sur un fragmeni sogdien: Of the three
principal Sogdian Buddhist fragments published by
M. Reichelt in his Die soghdischen Handschriftenreste
des Britischen Museums one has been identied by him
as a fragment of Vimalakirttinirdcgasatra, while the
other two are provisionally called by him the Dhuia text
and the Dhyana text. The last has been recognised by
S. Matsunami as a fragment of a Chinese suira bearing
the title equivalent: to Buddhadhyanasamédhisagara.
The writer gives a tr. of the Chinese text with notes,
notes on.the Sogdian tezt, an appendix upon the Dhata
text, a second appendix containing notes of interpretation
or etymology of the other text and an index of Sogdian
words, .

Ibid., t. COXXV, No. 1.

L. Finot--Manuscripis Sanskrits de Sddhana's retrouvés en
Chine: Text and tr. of several Sanskrit MSS. of
which the originals are deposited in the Buddhist
monastery of Cho-Kiang, along with introduction and
index. The MSS, consist of two parts, of which the first
part is the Hevajrasckaprakriyad written by an unknown
author, while the second consists of seven small manuals
of the Tantric liturgy, viz., (1) the Smatanavidhi by Liyi,
(2) the Bahyapajavidhi by Siévatavajra, (3) the Mantra-
patha, (4) the Hastapajavidhi by SaAgvatavajra, (5) the
Cakrasamvarabalividhi by the same and (6) the Vajra-
varahisddhana of Advayavajra. Of these Nos. 2, 4 and
6 have been edited by Dr. Benoytosh Bhattacharya in
the 5ddhanamala.
SELECT CONTENTS OF ORIENTAL JOURNALS 175

Ibid., t. COXNNYV, No. 2,

A. H. Krappe—Charybde et Scylla aux Indes et en
Océanie: Traces the travel of the celebrated episode of
the Odyssey in India, Siam, Fiji and Samoa.

ZDMG., Band 13, Heft 2.

Otto Schrader—I/ndische Bezeihungen eines nordischen
Fundes {with two plates}: The National Museum of
Copenhagen contains a great silver bow] (69 cm. broad
and 42 em, high), which was discovered in Northern
Jutland in 1891, Two reliefs of this bow!, according to
the writer, bear relation to Indian art, They are {1} a
Celtish goddess with elephants, with whom may be com-
pared the Indian Gajalakgmi and (2) the Celtish horned
god Cernunnos having his parallel with the homed god
of Mohenjedaro seal described by Sir John Marshall in
his well-known monograph,

A. Ziesennis—Eine Vostufe des Saivasiddhanta in der allt-
javanischen religiéisen Literatur: An Old-Javanese reli-
gious work called the Wyhaspatitaitwa, probably written
after the 10th century A.D,, contains an older form of
the Saivasiddhanta and belongs to the literature of the
Agamas, which are the sources of the Saivasiddhdania.
This is sought to be proved by a comparison of parallel
concepts in the Javanese and Sanskrit works.

U.N. G.

Tijdsohrift voor Indische Taal-, Land-, en VYolkenkunda,
Deel LAXV—Aflevering i (1935),

J. Gonda—The Javanese version. of the Bhagavadgita: As
is well-known, there is an Old-Javanese version of the
Mahabharata, which is of primary importance for the
history of this great epic. "'At present we possess the
texts of the first, fourth and sixth books of the great
epos and a number of manuscripts of some other books.
These works date fom about the year 1000 of our era.
176

SELECT CONTENTS OF ORIENTAL JOURNALS

They are not a complete translation......... The Japanese
author has taken from his copy of the Sanskrit text at
various intervals a éloka or a part of a 4loka,”” As for
the Bhagavadgita, ‘‘the author has given prose parts of
the subject-matter, which he considcred as the most
important.” It is very important to note that many
porlions of the Bhagavadgita, generally considered to be
interpolated by Garbe and others, have their counter-
parts in the Javanese version.

B. K. G.

Indlan Culture, April, 1935,

Kinct—Notes on the Simbhalese tradition relating ic
Buddha's relics:

Ibid., July 1933.

B. Keith—Plotinus and Indian Thought: Criticism of
Dr, Przyluski’s article in /G/S., Vol. 1, No. I.

. B. Sarkar—The Old-favanese Lexicon: Contains a list

of Old-Javanese words with Ir. and references as a
supplement to the lexicon of Dre. van der Tuuk and

Juynboll.

Djawa, 15 Jaargang, Nos. 1 to 3, June 103%.

Goris—Het Godsdienstig Karakier der Balische Dorpasge-
meenschap: The author diacusses in this interesting
article various Hindu aspects of the religious practices
prevailing in the countryside of Bali. The gods as well
as the devils are divided into a heavenly and an earthly
group tespectively.

van Os—De Hindoe-indonesische Kunst en het “‘llu-

sionsme' : ‘‘Illusicnism’’ in art had its origin in
Greece about 500 B.C. and it goes hand in hand with
the ‘emancipated’ architecture. In fact it signifies the
SELECT CONTENTS OF ORIENTAL. JOURNALS V7?

triumph of the individual over tradition."' The author
of the present article has tried to explaim and interpret
many common motifs in the Hindu-Javanese art from this
point of view.

F. Stutterheim—Een Oud-favaansche Bhime-cultus: in
this article the author discusses various aspects of
Old-Javanese Bhima-cult and the various ways in which
the deity concerned was represented in sculpture.

Ostasiatische Zealtschriit, N.&., 10 Jahrg. G heft, ind.

A, C, Eastman—The Buddha’s Victory over the Serpent, A

Gandhéren version in the Brooklyn Museum: The
legend of the Buddha’s triumph over the serpent in the
hre temple at Uruvilva, though one of the oldest legends
in the Buddhist ‘canonical literature, appears but seven
times in art, jncluding the three Gandharan versions of
the same. “‘Of special interest, therefore, is the
Brooklyn stone, which besides making the number of
stones seven (the fourth Gandharan version) of this
subject, has a special claim to attention in the flames

completely surrounding the Buddha.”
B. K. G.

Poedjangga Baroe, Vol. 11, Nos. 1 & 2.

The leading article of No. 1, written in Malay, describes in

a popular way some wayang characteristics after brieRy
tracing the progress of researches in the domain of
Indonesian languages.

In the mededeeling No, XXXV1, afdeeling volkenkunde no. 7

of the ROYAL COLONIAL INSTITUTE at Amsterdam,
Dr. van Naerssen has published in Bijlage A two Old-
Javanese inscriptions belonging to the time of Balitung.
It has been stated that the proceeds to the god of the
cloister at Hujung galuh and those of the other three
places shall go to the god of the cloister at Dalinan.
More interesting is the reference to the Ramayana,
Bhimakumara and Kicaka in Pl. Il. and these suggest
12
178

SELECT CONTENTS OF ORIENTAL JOURNALS

that the Rama-saga and some figures of the Mahabharata
were known in Java in the first decade of the tenth
century A.D. That the wayang was also represented
in social functions of this period is also proved by PI. JI.

H, B.S,

Tijdachritt Voor Indische Taal-, Land-, en Volkerkunde,
Deel LAXIY, Afley. Sand 4, 1034,

W. F. STUTTERHEIM.—De Leidsche Bhairava en Tjandi B van

Singasari (pp. 441-476}—The wriler controverte the state-
ments of previous authorities and concludes that the

Bhairava statue under discussion originally belonged Io
the Chandi B, and not te Chandi A, of Singasari,

A. STEINMANN.—De op de Boroboedoer ojgebeelde planten-

werld (pp. 58]-612}. A profusely illustrated paper
offering botanical identification of the various vegetation
depicted on the Barabudur, Stipa sculptures.

S. R. BALASUBRAHMAIN.—The Tisai AyirattaingGyruvar and the

Municahndai Record (A Great Tamil Merchant Guild of
Southern India) (pp. 613-618}Several records of South
India from A.D. 1033 onwards make mention of the said
Guild and its activities. One of the records comes from

Sumatra.
B.C.

Bulletin de Ecole Francalse d‘Extrome-Orlent, t. XX AIT, 1633.

P.

VAN STEIN CALLENFELS.—Le marriage de Draupedi,
(pp. 1-%—Two different opinions prevail about the
identification of bas-relicf B. 214 on Ankor Vat, viz., that
it represents the svayomvara of Sita (Coedés and
Przyluski) and that it stande for the svayamvara of
Draupadi (Finot). Consideration of Javanese and Malay
redactions of Draupadi’s svayornvara makes it clear that
the last view is correct.
SELECT CONTENTS OF ORIENTAL JOURNALS 179

G. Capes.—Ankor Vat, temple ou tombeau? (pp. 303-9)
Disputes M. Przyluski’a theory that Ankor Vat was
originally not a temple but a tomb. Suggests, in conclu-
sion, that Dr, Bosch’s expression ‘funerary temple’ might
obtain M. Przyluski's approval.

V. GLrousew,—Le Phnom Bakhén ct la ville de Yasovarman
—(pp. 319-44)—Report of an archeological mission to
Ankor (August-November 1932). Results of the archao-
logical exploration confirm the hypothesis framed by the
author in 193] that the Phnom Bakhén represents the
Central Mount of Yasodharapura, the city built by Yaso-

varman towards the close or the ninth century.

P, Mus.—Celtes indiens et indigénes ax Champa, (pp.
367-410}—Preface—Pre-Aryan India and Asia of the
monsoons—Vedic religion and Brahmanism—The Hindu
synthesis—The actual forms of the Cham cults—the kut
and the ‘liaga—survival and profoundity of Indian
influence in Champa, The author's conclusion is that
the Indian civilizers brought their Cham pupils a much
more beautiful and a much more elaborate expression of
their common sentiments.

ULN.G.

Journal Aslatique, t. CCXXIV, No. 2 Avril-Juin 1934.

J. Fiutzoat.—La Medicine Indienne et l’expansion bouddhique
en Extréme Orient—Points out how Indian medicine
and Buddhism have been diffused across Asia and have
spread abroad the prestige of Indian civilisation.

U.N.G.
indian Culture, July 1954,

R. C. Majusinar.—iIndo-favanese Litcrature—Contains  aur-
vey of principal works belonging to the frst two divisions
of this literature, viz., Old-Japanese and Middle-Javanese,
the last division (viz., New-Javanese) being left out as it
really falls outside the Hindu period in Java.
10 SELECT CONTENTS OF ORIENTAL JOURNALS

Ibid, October 1934.

NinaR Ranjan Ray.—Mahayanist and Tantric Literature in
Burma—Inscriptions from Pagan dated 804 B.E.=1442
A.D. mention 295 texts aa the object of gift to a monas-
tery. Among these three are identified as definitely
Tantric and at Jeast four are traced to Mahayanist
Sanskrit Literature.

Himansu BHUSAN SARKAR.—Sive-Buddha in Old-Javanese
records: The terms Siva-sogata and Sogata-Maheévara
in two Javanese inscriptions have been translated as
Sivaites and Buddhists. The correct translation is Saiva-
sogata. Evidence of Siva-Buddha cults in Java is given
by way of corroboration.

U.N.G.
BOOKS RECEIVED

THE GREATER INDIA SociIETY acknowledges with thanks the

13.

14.

receipt of the following books, periodicals, reports,
pamphlets, ete., during the fast six months :—

De indische Cultuurstroom: By A. J. Bernet Kempers,
Leiden 1934.

The Bronzes of Nalanda and Hindu-Javanese Art: By
A, J. Bernet Kempers, Leiden 1933,

Ona Tibetan text translated into Sanskrit under Ch’ien
Kung and into Chinese under Tao Kuang: By Baron
A. von Sta#]l-Holstein, Petping !932.

A Commentary to the Kafyapaparivaria: By Baron A.
von Staél.Holstem, Peiping 1934.

On two recent reconstructions of @ Sanskrit hymn: By
Baron A. von Staél-Holstein, Peiping ]934,

On a Peking edition of the Tibetan Kanjur: By Baron
A. von Staél-Holstein, Peiping 1935.

Annual Report for 1934 of the Division of Intercourse
and Education (Carnegie Endowment for International
Peace}: By Nicholas Murray Butler, New York 1935,
Indo-Tibetica Hi, Part 1, Spiti end Kunvar: By
Giuseppe Tucci, Rome 1935:

Indian Culture, April and July, 1935, Calcutta.
Hayagriva (The Mantrayanic Aspect of Horse-cult in
China and Japan): By R. H. van Gulik, Leiden 1935.
Nawaruci (inleiding Middel-Javaansche Prozatekst): By
M. Prijohoetomo, The Hague !934.

Midden-Oost Bornco Expedite 1925 (Uitgave can het
Indisch Comite voor Wetenschappenklijke Onder-
zoekingen}: Weltevreden,

Sculptures Indiennes et Indochinoise du Collection von
der Heydt: By Pierre Dupont, Amsterdam.

Poedjangga Barae, Vol. Il, Nos. | & 2, Batavia,
182

15.

16.

18.

19.

20.

2\.

22.
23.

24.

26.
27.
28.

29.

30.

31,

32.

BOOKS RECEIVED

The India that ia India: By Elizabeth Sharpe,
London 1934,

Book of Ram (Bible of India): By Mahatma Tulsidas,
London 1932.

Teachings from the Bhagawadgita: By Hari Prasad
Shastri, London 1935.

A New Approach to the Vedas: By A. K.
Coomaraswamy, London 1933,

Some Aapecis of Hindu Medical Treatment: By
Dorothea Chaplain, London 1930.

Djawa, Vols. I, No. 3; H; Hi; IV, No. 4; ¥, Nos. 1, 2,
5, 6; VI, Nos. 2, 4, 5, 6; VH, Nos, 3, 4, 5, 6; VI,
Nos. 3,4, 5, 6; IX, Nos. 2, 3, 4,5, 6; X; XI; XH;
XIN; XiV; XV, Nos. | to’3; Batavia.

Two copies of reprints of ‘Bockbespreking’ from Djawd,
XY, Nos. June, 9357-0 * .

Indian Historical Quarterly, Vol. XI, Nos. 1, 2; Calcutta.
Ostasiatische Zeitschrift, N.F., 10 Jahrg., 11 Jahrg., 1/2
heft, Berlin. 7

The Buddha Prabha, Vol. 3, No. 2, Bombay.

Eleven volumes of Sun Yat Sen University Bulletin of
institute of History and Language (in Chinese), Canton.
The Indian, Vol. Il, No, 3, London.

The Students’ Welfare, Vol. 1, No. 2, Agra.
Koninklijk Bataviaasch Genootschap van Kunsten en
Wetenschappen Jaarbock I, 1934, Batavia,

Tijdschrift voor indische Taal-, Land-, en Volkenkunde :
Deel LXXV, Afl. |, 2 and 3, Batavia.

A Mach-Needed Prayer: By Nicholas Murray Butler,
New York 1935.

The Javanese version of the Bhagavadgita: By J.
Gonda, Batavia [935.

The Rg-Veda as Land-Néma Book: By A. K.
Coomaraswamy, London 1935.
33.

34,

a2:

BOOKS RECEIVED 183

Varendra Research Society’s Monographs, No. 6,
March, 1935, Rajshahi.

Gids in Het Volkerkundig Museum, Koninklijk
Vereeniging Koloniaal Instituut; XIl]—De Indianen en
Boschnegers van Suriname: door B. M. Goslings,
Amslerdam,

Aanwinsten op Ethnografisch en Anthropologisch gebied
van de ajdecling Volkenkunde van het Kolonical
Instituut, 1931; 1932; 1933; and 1934., Amsterdam.
JOURNAL OF THE CREATER INDIA SOCIETY
SELECT OPINIONS OF SCHOLARS

Dr. N. J. Krom (Leiden}:—

_ “T have much pleasure in..........6- congratulating you
as the editor of so sound a volume containing new and
interesting information. May it be the first of a long series,
maintaining the same high standard.’ -

Dr. Georce Ca:bes (Hanoi) :--

“| have read with much interest the first issue of the
Journal of the Greater India Society, which contains valuable
papers by prominent scholars............ ”

Dr, G. Tucci (Rome) :—

“Your Journal is becoming one of the leading reviews.”
Dr. Lupwte BackHorer (Munich) :—

“A careful study has proved the serious and surely
acientiiic character of the Journal.”

Dr. W. Percevat YeTrs (London) :—

"T have read with much pleasure and profit the
Dr. WaLtTer LteBENTHAL (Peiping) :—

‘I certainly appreciate the value of your purposes and
achievements.’ ;

Dr. R. O, Winstept (Johore} :—

"Your excellent Journal.”

S. PARANAVITANA, EsQ. (Colombo) :—

‘| have read the Journal with much interest and appre-
ciation, It serves a very useful purpose in that it brings the
results of the important researches carried on by the French
and Dutch savants to the notice of those students who cannot
read those contributions in the original French and German.”
Dr, A. J. BerneT Kempers (Voorburg):—

‘The contents have greatly interested me...........
Dr. F. D, K. Boscu {Batavia} :—"

eee the’ last issues of the Journal............conipined
teresting things on the Archipelago, proving
Hindu-Javanese and Sumatran history and
profit, in the future, from the experience

?

aan ek

