iatzeay (SOO!

Litas.

Original from

Digitized by Google UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
wt Original from
*"“ UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

arses» Google
JOURNAL

OF THE
GREATER INDIA SOCIETY
Vol. XVI 1957 Nos. 1-2
Edited by

Pror. NALINAKSHA DUTT

CONTENTS

Article:

Indo-Javanese History. ae we 182
By Himansu Bhusan Sarkar, M.A,

Published by—
__THE GREATER INDIA SOCIETY, CALCUTTA

G

Greater India Society (establisnea 1927)

Aims and Objects

1, To organise the study of Indian Culture in Greater India (..
Serindia, India Minor, Indo-China and Insulindia) as well as in China,
Korea, Japan and other countries of Asia and the Pacific World.
2. To arrange for publication of the results of researches into the
history of India’s spiritual and cultural relations with the outside world.
To create an interest in the history of Greater India and
condected problems among the students in the Schools, Colleges, and
Universities of India by insticuting a systematic study of those subjects
and by taking proper steps to stimulate the same.
4: To popularise the knowledge of Greater India, ancient’and

modern, by organising meetings, lantern lectures, exhibitions and
conferences.

Membership Rules
1. The annual subscription payable by members is Rs. 12/- only.

Members are entitled to receive the publications of the Society at
concession rates and copies of the Journal of the Society free of cost.

a. Resident members may have access to the Society’s collection
of books, pamphlets and periodicals etc. on application either to the
Je. Honorary Secretaries of the Society or to the Librarian, Calcutta
University. The Society's collection is housed, by arrangement with
the Calcutta University authorities, in the University Library.

Officers and Members of the Managing Committee,
Greater ludia Society, 1955
President —Dr. Suniti Kumar Chatterji, M.A., D.Li
Vice-Presidents—Dr. U. N. Ghoshal, M.A., Ph.D.
Dr. Kalidas Nag, M.A., D.Lite. (Paris)
Hony. Secretaries—Dr. A. C. Banerji, M.A., Ph.D.
Dr. Kalyan Kumar Ganguly, M.A., D.Phil.

Other Members of the Committee—Dr, Narendra Nath Law, M.A.,
Ph.D.; Dr. B.C. Law, M.A.,B.L., Ph.D., D.Lite.,; Dr. Nalinaksha
Dutt, M.A., Ph.D, D.Litt. (London); Dr. Satkari_Mukherji,
M.A., Ph.D.; Dr. Nihar Ranjan Ray, M.A., Ph.D., D.Litt.
(Leiden); Dr, Jitendranath Banerjea, M.A. Ph.D.; Dr. C.

(Lond).

Google
Vol. XVI 1957 Nos. 1-2

Indo-Javanese History*
(ENGLISH TRANSLATION oF Dr. N. J. KROM’S.
Hinpu-JAVANSCHE GESCHIEDENIS]

By Himansu BHUSAN SaRKAR

The Oldest Hindu Kingdoms

“One should not cettainly consider the advent of the Hindus into
Java as an isolated phenomenon, as if these traders and colonists
hada particular charm for this one island and Java was the chief
object of cheir influx towards the East. On the contraty, the coloni-
sation of Java constituted only a part of a great whole, of a large-
scale influx from India to the Archipelago and Further India, in which
Java was involved of itself; but that Java should have presented any-
thing particular among the many points of commerce and settlement,
follows from nothing. Ie will appear later on that the arrival of the
Hindus in Java has had, thanks to the co-ordination of diverse favour-
able circumstances, other consequences than that, for example, in
Borneo, but the first Indian seafarers had not of course anticipated
this: they came to Java, as they went everywhere else, and had
there the same objectives as in other regions. If one wants properly
to understand the beginning of colonisation, he must get rid of the
notion of navigation of the Hindus to Java, in order to, substitute for
that place the navigation of the Hindus to the East; thus among
other places, to Java as well.

The particulars of the journeys are not known, and that also is
very natural; if such an intercourse first arose with a few mercantile
vessels, then with more, ending lastly with the permanent domicilia-

* Continued from JGIS., vol. XIII, p. 72.

Google
2 The Oldest Hindu Kingdoms

tion, there is no reason to note that down. If the Hindus had made
a conquest of the East, the case would have been something different
although, even then, there was every chance that an account of such
expedition for conquest, written in this ancient period, would not
have reached us. All the data from the Indian side are now lacking,
and we find only at different points, traces of the Hindu-culture,
and these too at a period falling a couple of centuries later than that
where we thought in our previous chapter we could fix the first
commercial relations. These traces leave no doubt about the inner
connexion of the colonisation of the East, especially in so far as they
consist of epigraphic data, which, everywhere have been found on
the spot: these are, even in the furthest outlying regions, engraved
in the same alphabet derived frofm Southern India, and they agree
in the similar formation of the royal name, occurring in them, which,
with few exceptions, always end in Varman, also a South-Indian
peculiarity. These data are amplified by Chinese accounts, which
also make us feel everywhere a similar state of affairs. The Chinese
accounts for the most part are from a somewhat later period; the
inscriptions usually form out oldest materials,?

We shall begin by considering to what regions and at what times
is, so far as the inscriptions are concerned,

we are cast; the ti
approximate, because they bear no dates (or irrecognizable dates)
and must therefore be dated by the type of scripts. The oldest types
are met with in Campi, and are from the third century, perhaps
they may be somewhat earlier, and from the middle of the fourth;
and also from the fourth century the earliest inscriptions of the Tala-
ings in Burma have been considered to date, but certainty we have
only with the Pali inscriptions in Prome from the sixth century,
and the Talaing inscriptions ot Lopburi, from the eighth. At the
end of the third century, a Chinese text speaks of the kingdom of
Fu-nan, which precedes that of Cambodge, and whose history appears

1 A survey has been given by Chhabra, Expansion of Indo-Aryan Culture
‘y 8 °y if

during Pallava rule, Journal and Proc., As Soc. Bengal, 1, 1935, pp. 1-64-
2 See Rep. Superint. Arch. Survey Burma, 1919, pp. 18 ff., Coedés in
BEFEO, 25, (1925), p. 186 and Blagden in JRAS, 1928, p. 915.

Google
The Oldest Hindu Kingdoms 3

to begin in the first century, although the oldest embassies we know
of date from the beginning of the third centuty.! Thereafter come,
about 400, Kutei, the Malay Peninsula, and somewhat later on West-
Java ; in che last place also has been found a somewhat later type of
script from pethaps 450; parallel to this run the Chinese accounts
from the first half of the fifth century. In the second half of the
fifth century and the beginning of che sixth we have the three oldest
inscriptions of Fu-nan,? and at the same time the Chinese data
ate projected on three other lands, Kandali, Langga and Poli, of
which both the first two places have been sought in Sumatra, the last
one is equated with Bali (without reaching full certainty therein) and
must in any case have been laid in che Archipelago. Of Langga it
has been stated in 515 that the kingdom was at that time 400 years
old: this places cherefore its foundation at the beginning of che second
century. In course of the sixth century, we again find epigeaphic data
from Camp, the Malay Peninsula, and, as already stated, from Burma,
The Cambodian inscriptions also commence with the beginning of
the seventh century, a little after che Chinese notices, although they
also refer to carlier (not datable and perhaps half mythical) kings.
Limiting ourselves co the oldest accounts here, we shall now
observe them a little more closely, indicating only a few major points
regarding the tracts lying outside the Archipelago, and giving devails
only of what once constituted the Dutch-Indies. This may lead
to a wrong idea of the relative importance of the data, if we do not
expressly state beforehand that we do not in the least assign to the
oldest history of the Archipelago a status superior co that of Further-
India, but, on the contrary, both should be judged on their true
merits by considering them in connexion with each other and
as local manifestations of one and the same phenomenon of Hindu

1 Pelliot, Le Fou-nan, BEFEO, 3 (1903). pp. 251 ff, 290-293 and 303.

2 Coedés in BEFEO, 31 (1932), pp. 1-12 and JGIS., 4, (1939), pp-
117-121, See the same in Mélanges Linossier (1932), p. 162 for an inscription
of Sideva, also of sth or 6th century.

3 The oldest dated one is from 624: Bergaigne, Inscriptions Sanskrites
du Cambodge (1885), pp. 31-38.

Google
4 The Oldest Hindu Kingdoms

colonisation of South East-Asia. To attempt to traverse the whole field
would be beyond the scope of a work which proposes to give a history
of Java, The present writer firmly believes chat it must yet be achiev-
ed in due time through a great comprehensive research, if one wishes
to form a correct estimate of Hinduism in the colonies.

The Cam inscription, which we have just now described as the
oldest is the rock-inscription of Vé-canh, only partly legible, written
in Sanskrit and, according to the script, dated in the third or perhaps
even the second century of the Christian era; it refers to a donation
by a king of the dynasty of Sti-Mira. The three inscriptions from
the middle of the fourth century, which follow in chronological
sequence and are manifestly correlated are: (1) that of Cho’
dinh, referring to an offering from Dharmamaharaja Sri Bhadravarman
to Siva, designated as BhadreSvarasvamin, (2) that of Hon-cuc with
only an invocation to the same god Mahadeva-BhadreSvarasvamin, and
(3) that of Mi-s'on, which vale together with its inhabitants was
presented to BhadreSvara.? These three records are also in Sanskric,
and in a script which is best known from the region of the Indian

Pallavas, whose name is particularly connected with Kificipuram, the
modern Conjeeveram,

In dating these inscriptions about 350—previously they were
placed half a century later—we follow the results of an investigation
of Dr. Vogel? containing some particulars about the Indian Pallavas.*
We learn therefrom that these kings first emerge into the clear light
of history at a period which must be considerably later than that of
the possible first navigation of the Hindus to the East; direct connexion
between the data from here and those over there is not therefore to be
expected, When this is taken into consideration, the points of
similarity are indeed striking. The specimen of script used is of
a type which was formerly designated as the Venggi, but

1 Bergaigne, Inscriptions Sanskrites de Campa et du Cambodge (1893),
pp. 11-26 and Finot in BEFEO., 2 (1902), pp. 185-191 and 15 (1915), pp. 3-5+

2 Bijdr. Kon, Inst. 74 (1918), pp. 167-232.

3 Moreclaborately by Venkayya, Arch. Surv. Ann, Rep. 1506-7, pp-
217-243, and Gopalan, History of the Pallavas of Kanchi (1928).

Google

The Oldest Hindu Kingdoms 5

which can much better be called the Pallava-sctipt and which, with
slight variations, dominated the entire oldest epigraphy of South-
East Asia. The king of the oldest inscriptions, Sivaskandavarman,
from the first half of the fourth century, calls himself Dharmamahiraja,
so also does Bhadravarman of Campa, of a little later periods the former
reigned over Kificipuram and its neighbourhood, over the Telugu land
up to the Kistna. The royal names ending in Varman' also continue
in a second series of inscriptions from the fifth and the sixth centuries.
The greatest efflorescence of the Pallavas, followed by a rapid decline,
occurs in the seventh and first half of che eighth century, and it is
about this period that we are at any rate least meagrely informed.
In other words, what we know of the history of the Pallavas concerns
the later adventures of a land which had served as the starting-point
of the commercial travels of the Hindus to the East; it does not con-
cern that land at the time when these journeys began.

For that period, we should go back to a time long anterior to
Sivaskandavarman, and it is wholly uncertain if his dynasty and if the
kingdom of the Pallavas should, in a general way, be carried much
earlier than the fourth century; also nobody can guarantee that the
Pallava script was created by, or during the time of, the Pallavas, and
assumed those charac-
teristic forms by which it would clearly distinguish itself from other
scripts. The Periplus (Secs. 54 and 55) mentions two of the three
great kingdoms of Southern India which already appear in the edicts
of Agoka, and Pliny (vi, 104) confirms that statement; they are

that it had not already ‘in a pre-Pallava peri

Cera or Kerala, perhaps agreeing with the modern Travancore on the
Malabar coast, and Pandya in the extreme South, whose capital at
that time was Madura. The third kingdom, thac of the Colas, whose
name is preserved in the modern Coromandel (Colamandala) coast is
not mentioned in the first-century sources. It is a kingdom which
we shall later on see playing an important réle in the history of the
Archipelago and where we have to seck both Kafici and the ports

1 Of course the names of ‘Varman’ are not exclusively South-Indian but
the combination of these names with the Pallava-script is common to South-
India and the colonies,

Google
6 The Oldest Hindu Kingdoms

desctibed in connexion with commercial transactions with Chryst,
Is this an omission, or did Cola disappear for the time being before the
expansion of the prowess of the Pandyas, which has also been commit-
ted to writing in the Tamil poems? Another Tamil legend* just
connects the Pallavas with the Colas; the first Pallava should have
been the son of a Cola-king and a Nagi. Is it possible chat the
Pallavas, to whom a Parthian derivation has also been attributed,
could have stepped into the place of the ancient Colas, just as the
later Colas came to the fore in the selfsame region in later centuries
after the fall of the Pallavas? To this question, we can naturally give
no answer; but the possibility always remains chat the “Pallava”-script
was brought over to foreign lands not from the kingdom of the Pallavas
themselves, bue from a kingdom which lay in the selfsame region and
preceded the Pallava-kingdom.

So far as the Archipelago is concerned, it is in Borneo, that this
script makes its firse appearance. One cannot in the least infer from
this that the Hindus had established a firm footing on that island*
earlier than on Java or Sumatra. It is likely that only a small portion
of the epigeaphic materials which did exist in places known to us
and probably in many unknown ones has reached us; it has certainly
to be imputed to accident that the spared data of the oldest date are
found just in Borneo. It is obvious that the Hindus touched, in che
first place, Sumatra and the Malay Peninsula, and thereafter went in
the southern direction towards Java, in the eastern direction cowards
Borneo and Further-India, in so far as they had not already reached
the last mentioned region through the isthmus of Kra.

The data from Borneo consist of a set of four insctibed sacrificial
posts of stone, Yapas, found in Kutei at Muara Kaman on the Maba-
kam. In 1882 these were published by Ketn,? who placed the inscrip-
tions, after an examination of the scripts, about 400 A.D. with which

1 Mentioned by Vogel, p. 172.

2 That Borneo is meant by the Barhinadvipa of the Purinas is supposed
by Gangoly, Rapam 27/28 (1926), p. 114.

3, Reprinted in VG, VII, pp. 55-76.

Google
The Oldest Hindu Kingdoms 7

conclusion, Vogel’ associated himself after a fresh and close investiga-
tion, in which all sorts of materials, unknown to Kern, were utilised.
The language is Sanskrit, and it is metrical. While we cannot, on
the whole, think of translating the inscriptions discussed in this work
in their entirety, we still desire to do so in particular cases, as they
very certainly reveal the oldest traces of Hinduism in the
Archipelago. The four inscriptions on these Yapas are the following:

1. The illustrious king, the excellent Kundungga, had as son the
famous ASvavarman, the founder of a dynasty, just like Amgumén.
OF him were three excellent sons, like three sacrificial fires. Of those
three, the most distinguished, excelling in the might of asceticism and
in self-control is H.M. Malavarman, the lord of kings, who has offered
a babusuvarnakam (much gold-offering). For that offering, this
sacrificial post is erected by the foremost of the twice-born.

2. OF the illustrious chief of kings, H.M. king Milavarman,
the gift in the supremely meritorious field (the gift), which he gave in
Vaprakesvaram to the twice-born comparable to sacrificial fire, thousand
and twenty kine; for that meritorious deed is this sacrificial post made
by the priests who came hithers

3- OF the king, illustrious and resplendant in fame, H.M.
Miilavarman, the meritorious deed, of this must hear the foremost
priests and what other pious men there are, his great gift, his gift
of living beings, with a wishing-tree and with a gift of land, For these
multitude of meritorious deeds is this sacrificial post erected by the
priests.

4. Just as Bhagiratha was born of king Sagara......(the rest is
illegible, but alittle further occurs the name of Miilavarman whose
descent is thus clearly compared with that of Bhagiratha).

Very little explanation is demanded of the wordings of these
inscriptions. What is precisely the signification of the different
sacrificial acts is not satisfactorily explained by Indian sources; the
“‘wishing-tree” is a tree whereupon various good gifts hang, after
the manner of the Christmas-tree, and the custom of erecting such

1 Inthe article mentioned hereabove BKI., 74, pp. 167-232. See also
Chhabra op, cit. pp. 37°41.

Google
8 The Oldest Hindu Kingdoms

trees on festal occasions is still in vogue in Further-India.’ Under
the unexplained terms, decidedly the most important is Vaprakeévara,
of which it is not even known whether it is a person ot a place.
Kern meant the former, and surmised that the sacred fire (Agni) is
intended; Vogel thought of a place or temple, consecrated to the
lord (Igvara=Siva). That we think we have a place name before us,
appears from our translation “VaprakeSvaram”; to that inference
also leads the manner in which the term is used in later Javanese
inscriptions, where mention has been made of “Ye deities at Sri
VaprakeSvara.” Nevertheless, for want of any trace of a Vaprakesvara
in the Indian Siva worship, we should be inclined to expect the solu-
tion from a different quartet, and in this Vaprakefvara of Borneo
and Java we should rather see the equivalent in a Sanskrit garb of
the village sanctuary of the Indonesians lying in an enclosed space®
(one may think of the field of the inscription). If further research*.
—this is naturally not the place to go deeper into the subject—
makes this opinion tenable, then it should contain an indication of
the singularly composite character of this oldest Hindu society of
Indonesia; but at present we prefer not co urge this possibility in
expectation of its confirmation or rejection.*

Besides the language and the script, the contents of the inscriptions
are also Indian; on reading these, one can imagine equally well thac
they could have originated in the Pallava-land asin Borneo. The erection
of the Yiipas is by itself Brahmanical (in the sense of non-Buddhi

Buddhism, which recognises no animal sacrifice, does not set up posts
to which sacrificial animals are to be chained); usually they were of
wood ; only exceptionally there might be a reason in connexion with a

1 Blagden in Bijdr. Kon. Inst, 74 (1918), pp. 615-617; see also Aichele
in Djawa 8 (1928), pp. 28-40.

2 Cf. e.g. Tijdschr, Aardr, Gen. 38 (1921), p. 516 and 537; Mallinckrode,
Adatrecht van Borneo (1928) pp. 68-72,

3, Stutterheim, Bridr. Kon, Inst. 92 (1934), pp. 203 ff. thinks of a burial-
ground.

4, Poerbatjaraka, Agestya in den Archipel (1926), pp. 62-70, has tried to
prove that Vaprakesvara is a name of the seer Agastya,

Google

The Oldest Hindu Kingdoms 9

very particular sactifice to make it public through an inscription
on a stone post; thus the Yipas of Borneo are a rarity, next
to the few Indian examples. Indian terms are used in glorification
of the king and his dynasty and in denotation of various kinds of
offerings; Indians are naturally the “twice-born.” Indian is also the
figure from the heroic poem, with whom the king's descent has
been compated; he who composed the verses is undoubtedly a literary
Hindu,

But of course that is not the foremost question which occurs to us.
Are we to imagine the men, from whom these sacrifices emanated, as
a group of Hindus who had landed in a far-off region, had perhaps
come there with commercial objects in view, but now adopted the
position of a king with his court in the midst of these natives bent on
Western culture; or are they, on the contrary, just the natives who,
after making acquaintance with the culeure, adopted it at least for
appearance’ sake, helped by the Indian aliens who now lived in their
midst’ and in this manner heightened, from the nature of the case,
their own importance? Is king Malavarman a Hindu from overseas,
or is he a Hinduized native, at the utmost a half-breed?

The inscriptions do not offer a direct reply, but some indications
they provide indeed. When one further looks into the royal names,
he sees that Miilavarman’s father is known as ASvavarman and his
father is Kundungga. The grandfather thus bears not one of the usual
lucid Sanskrit royal names, but an ordinary proper name. Alas! it
cannot be said if Kundungga is Indian or Indonesian; both are possible,
because. proper name like Kundukita appears in a Pallava-inscription.?
On the other hand, no objection can be offered against an Indo-
nesian Kundung. Now one can explain the adoption of the ordinary
name jn contradistinction to the Indian royal names of son and grand-
son: in the one case, when he was the father of the first Hindu of
this dynasty who worked his way to royal dignity from the ranks, in
the other case, when he was the father of the first Hinduized native-
chief. (The fact that the man is culogised as an illustrious king may

1 Chhabta in Journ, Mal, Br. R. A, 8. 15, 111 (1937), pp. 119 cites the
names Kadungon and Kodumka, both to be found in South-Indian epigraphy,

2

Google
10 The Oldest Hindu Kingdoms

here weigh in the scale in favour of the second conception; because,
according to the former, the name should have been a consequence of
-his not being a king. Kundung(ga) should then be the chief of Kutei
under whose son and successor the Hindu influence became so strong
that it led to a Hinduization of the court and the ceremonial. This
event may be supposed to have occurred in course of the fourth cen-

w tury. Te may explain at the same time why Agvavarman, ie., the first
king consecrated in the Indian manner, and not his father, is consider-
ed as the “founder of the dynasty” (vamiakartta). Moreover, under
the: “priests who came hither”—the term Brahmans is not used—one
can think more conveniently of the priests from different lands who
‘were now involved in the Hindu-ceremonial, than that they should be
pure Indian Brahmans,

In addition to the stones, some golden objects were also found in
the selfsame place, amongst others, a crude Visnu-image; some other
places have also yielded antiquarian remains. The most important of
these is the cave in Mount Kombeng, about which w= have exact
notices since the visit of Witkamp," although a set of three images
obtained from ‘this place already attracted attention in che museum at
Batavia, The hill is considerably more in the interior and mote
northern than Muara Kaman, in the basin of the Pantun-river, a
branch of the Telen.

The resule of this visit was this, chat a set of twelve images of
sandstone was found in the dark recess of one of two chambers form-
ing the cave; also there were some rough-hewn stones and half-decayed
beams of iron-wood. Evidently the images were brought here from
elsewhere; the majority were furnished with a stone-pin below their
lotus-cushions, and were thus intended to be fixed in a niche or a
pedestal. Through the Middle-East-Borneo expedition of 1925, Bosch
availed himself of the opportunity to make a study of these images
on the basis of the new photo-material.? They ate partly Saivite,

1 Described in Tijdschr, Aardr. Gen, 31 (1914), pp. 595-598.
2 Aneta-communiqué over the expedition IIl (1925), pp. 31-34 and OV,
1925, PP» 132-142.

Google
The Oldest Hindu Kingdoms n

partly Buddhistic, with a strong Saivite intermixture, probably a ‘con-
sequence of the ignorance of the sculptor.

The importance of these images lies, for the great part, in this that
they ate different, so far as their design and workmanship are con-
cetned, from the Hindu-Javanese art, wheteas all that Borneo has
subsequently received of Hinduism has been obtained, in general, by
way of Java, and bears so clear indications of it that one cannot doubt
for a moment that it is a Javanese cultural stream with which one has
to deal. The centre of that influence lay at Banjérmasin. “When
now, on the other hand, one finds these relics of an un-Javaniése
Hinduism in the inhospitable parts of the interior above the Mahakam;
and the same Mahakam, in the lower regions, yielded the inscriptions
discusssed shortly before, which were evidently the result of the direct
introduction of Hinduism, then there exists some ground for putting
the query, if both the data should be combined together and the
images of Kombeng could have been carved out by the descendants
of the colonists of Muara Kaman at a point of time when all contact
with che motherland had been cut off for long. We should be inclined
to answer the question in the affirmative, che more so as, according
to native tradition, 2 Hindu kingdom existed in the interior of
Kutei up to the seventeenth century. Still we have to give our
suggestion under due reserve, because Bosch is of opinion’ that suff-
cient affinity with Hindu-Javanese ideas is betrayed to make a Hindu-
Javanese derivation probable.

The discovery of the inscriptions of Muara Kaman indicates that
the great rivers, which have frequently shown the way by which exotic
influence could penetrate into a land, performed the same réle in a
great measure in the colonisation of the Archipelago. Still sticking:
to Borneo, it is obvious that, in the case of foreigners coming from!
the west, there is not only the Mahakam, but in the first place, the
Kapuas to be reckoned with. ‘The rivers are the natural ways by
which the commercial products could come to the coast from the

1 Mees, De Kronick van Koctai (1935), p. 12.
2 LC. pp. 140. The same author speaks on pp. 142-146 ofa very
beautiful bronze Buddha found at Kota Bangun,

Google
12 The Oldest Hindu Kingdoms

interior, and the great trading centres have therefore to be expected
along the lower course of rivers, so as to be approachable by sea
vessels and yet far enough from the sea to be secure against the sudden
atcacks of pirates, As permanent colonisation takes the place of
temporary trading-settlement, one sces the centre of influence shifting
further from the coast towards the interior. Mention has been
made of the remains. of architectural works and images on different
places at the Kapuas, but they do not usually furnish a satisfactory
basis for dating;! near Sanggau stands a couple of lines incised on
a stone, over and under which che Sampei falls into the Stkajam, but
these have not yet been read and the script does not appear to re-
present the usual Pallava-character but rather a cursive form, of which
West Java offers a parallel.» On the other hand, a little more can
be read of the inscription on the Batu-Pahat neat the sources of the
Tékarek, between rock-hewn ornaments, which at the top resemble
superposed umbrellas, probably standing on stiipas. The ornament
is indisputably un-Javanese, and the letters betray the characteristics
of somewhat later Pallava-letters; what words can be deciphered
appear to be Sanskrit and of Buddhistic nature (among others, the
Ye dharma formula).* It seems not too presumptuous to see traces
in the Batu-Pahat of a non-Javanese settlement from perhaps a some-
what later period than at Kutei, of which settlement other remains
in these same regions also bear evidence and which must have
brought, among others, also the Buddhists to the island. Of the
other remains, the liiga with the human face, the Mukhaliiga,
of Sepauk (in Sintang) is especially noteworthy, since we have also
there an apparently un-Javanese phenomenon, and there is every
inducement to think again of a direct Hindu influence from India
by which not only the Buddhists bue also the Saivites were manifestly
affected. Much less clear is what one finds in the south of the

1 One finds the literature on these antiquities in OV., 1914, pp. 140-147.

2 Namely, the one line at Ciaruteun, and the inscription of Muara Ciantén
(see below). ef. Wot. Bat. Gen, 1909, p. 187.

3 Chhabra, Ul, pp. 41-44.

4, See further OV, 1920, pp. 102-105, also for a couple of very old ships.

Google

The Oldest Hindu Kingdoms 3

island, in consequence of the strong Javanization since the Majapahit
period; in spite of all chat, there appear still several remains (eg.
in Margasari) which have to be explained as outside Javanese influ-
ence. In the north, Séawak yields a GaneSa-image which must
be deemed to otiginate positively under a ditect Hindu  influence;?
in the east-coast, a Pallava-inscription is found near Sangbélirang?.
So our conclusion can be that Borneo presents on all sides
traces, be they often very faint, of the advent of the Hindus
from India, the clearest traces being at the Kapuas and at the
Mahakam, the latter indicating approximately the fourth century as the
date of heir advent, as appears from the script of the inscriptions.
On the western coast of Celebes a very fine bronze Buddha’ re-
presents the art of Amaravati, which we shall also find in Palembang;
of course it would not be prudent to build on this one piece,
however remarkable the supposition of a colonisation of this part of
Celebes may be.

The oldest epigraphic data of che Malay peninsula known from a
publication of Low* since 1848 were placed by Kern about 400.
They are two, both from the province of Wellesley. The first inscrip-
tion, found at Kédah, was engraved on a kindof slate, found under
the floor of a dilapidated house of very small dimensions, a monk’s cell
presumably and of a Buddhistic monk, because the content consists of
the well-known Buddhistic formula (Ye dharma etc.) and a second
religious motto. The same motto also occurs in the second inscription
(found in the northern district of the province) and it stands there on
a pillar, on either side of the representation of astapa. All this is
therefore certainly Buddhistic. On the outer edge, the pillar also
contains a second inscription, and that bears the notice “of the great
ship-captain Buddhagupta, resident of Rakeametti ”, upon which

1 Journ, Str, Br. R. A. S, 85 (1922), pp. 210ff.; cf Gangoly in Journ. Gr.

Ind. Soc., 3 (1936). pp. 97-103.
Not. Bat, Gen. 1880, p. 98,

2
3 Bosch in Tijdsebr. Bat, Gen. 73 (1933). pp. 495-513.
4 JASB., 17 (1848), 2, pp. 62-72,

5 VG,IIl (1915), pp. 255-260; Chhabra ll,, pp. 14-20,

Google
14 The Oldest Hindu Kingdoms

should follow ‘is this pious gift” or something similar. The rest is
incomplete; at the end a successful journey is mentioned.

The importance of these data would be greater if we could localise
the place-name Raktamettika. A name which signifies the same (red
earth) was known tothe Chinese as that of a port at the gulf of
Siam; if we agree with Kern that this is intended, the ship-captain
should have lived in this (consequently Hinduized) part of Further
India, but then it is not wholly clear why he should wish to com-
memorate his insignificant journey to the north of the province of
Wellesley by such a sacred gife.

That should be more intelligible if the person came from an Indian
Raktamr 3 so about the equation of this “red earth” with che
Siamese one, doubt has been expressed.” About the same period,
epigraphic remains appear in the east-coast of the peninsula.

Ie appears therefore that at the beginning of the fifth century,
traces of Hinduization occur both in Borneo and ‘in the Malay
Peninsula, and therein both Saivism and Buddhism were involved;

in Java also we observe the same phenomenon in the selfsame
time, and that, as we haye already noticed, in the west of che island.
Here also in the first place we came across epigraphic temains,

for whose deciphering we have again, for the greater part, to
thank Kern‘, while Vogel has also devoted a new research to in

1 Groeneveldt, pp. 82, tor, 122.

2 Pelliot in BEFEO., 4 (1904), p. 231. Ray in his thesis (1936) is of
opinion that it might be Ranggamati in Bengal.
t, Bull, Comm, Arch, del? Indo-Chine, 1910, pp, 152 and 1543,
Coedés Mélanges Sinnosien U.; c£, Quaritch Wales in Ind. Art. and Lett.
(1936). For a seal with the legend Sri Vignavarmmasya in Pallava letters of the
4th-6th century, see. O.V. 1936, p. 36, Evans in Jowrn. Fed. Mal. St. Mus.
15 (1936) ps 87f; Chhabra Il. p, 27f. and Jour. Gr. Ind, Soc. 2 (1935), PP-
71-75; Winstedt, Journ, Mal, BRAS., 13, 1 (1935), p. 30 and Nilakanta
Sastri, ibid, 14, 111 (1936), p. 2826.

4 VG, VII, pp, t-10 and 129-138;
Cohen Stuart in Bijdr, Kon, Inst. 3: X (1875), pp. 163-170,

5 Publ. Ondb. Dienst. I (1925), pp. 15-35. In the main, we follow his
reading hereunder, See also Chhabra ll., pp, 31-33.

Google

The Oldest Hindu Kingdoms 5

All of them are not exactly from the selfsame period but these
can be distinguished, from the little variations in the script types,
as older and younger ones; the differences are not very important,
and the distance can certainly be estimated as not longer than,
e+ gs, half a century. The oldest ones appear to be somewhat
younger than those of Borneo, discussed above. It is safer to place
the older Javanese inscriptions in the beginning of the fifth century and
the younger ones about the middle of the century. But one should always
keep in mind that the circumstances under which the inscriptions
came into being ate too little known to enable us to attach much value
to slight palacographical differences. The script passed everywhere,
in its original homeland and in the colonies, through a similar evolution,
and so it naturally follows that there is a connexion between both, but
how precisely the change was put in operation, how much time an
innovation applied in India would require in order to be-introduced
into the colonies, and if they exercised influence on each other,
escapes us for the greater parts as the date of the inscriptions of the
colonies must be worked out from the dated documents of India
itself, this makes the question of dating an unusually precatious task
whose results will remain more ot less disputable, as soon as one tries
0 come to a narrower limit.

Fortunately, at least the find-place of the inscriptions—with later
transferable charters such a source of painful uncertainry—offers no
reason for uneasiness, engraved as they are on huge picces of rock,
Four of them lie in or near Ci Sadane, a rivulet that streams along
Buitenzorg; they are found a bit down the stream from the said place,
but still high in the mountainous country. The fifth one is found on
a huge stone of oblong oval shape, at Tugu, towards the cast of
Batavia, thus wholly in the lowland.

The oldest script-form is chat of the record at Ciatuteun, again
in Sanskeit verse, as are indeed all these West Javanese records. In
the rock, acouple of footprints has been engraved, beside each of

1 The insctiptions of Ciaruteun and Tugu belong, in that case, to the
older, Jambu to the younger category, It is especially in connexion with
letter-forms such as ¢ and bb, that we mean to recognise a difference in time,

Google :
16 The Oldest Hindu Kingdoms

which a thread runs out into the figure of a spider. To the right,
siands a cutsive line in a script. which is different and was perhaps
later inserted;* the older inscription is written below the figures and
it is stated that this pair of feet of the mighty ruler, the illustrious
Parnavarman, the lord of Tardmanagara, is like unto the foot-prints
of Visnu. The beautifully arranged letters can be read without the
least difficuley; the line in cursive-script has not yet been satisfactorily
explained.

The custom of perpetuating the foot-prints of a great figure is
known enough from India, where one repeatedly comes across the feet
of Buddha, the feet of Visnu, etc. As both these examples show, they
refer most often to figures from a hoary past or of higher order; this
may lead us to the supposition that it is not Pirnavarman but a descen-
dant who represented his feet, and therefore the cited king might
have lived sometime (probably a considerable time) before the composi-
tion of the inscription. Nevertheless the possibility is not excluded

that che Indian custom was applied in a different manner in the
remote colony and the foot-prints have indeed to be considered as
belonging to the living king of the time. Over the symbolism of
the spiders, a good deal has also been written,* without making it
clear what they have got to do with the feet of king Parnavarman.
What the inscription tells us is merely this that aking of hat name
reigned over the kingdom Taruma (the diactitical marks may stand
in this way, as appeats from the other inscriptions) in the beginning
of the fifth century ot earlier, and that his foot-prints were compared

1 Similar script in India appears at a somewhat later period; cf. Arch.
Surv. 1911/12 ph. 75.

Mr, Sarkar draws my attention to a contemporary use of this subject in the
4th line of the Susunia Rock Inscription. Epigr, Ind. 13 (1915/16), p. 133-

2 Besides the artic'e of Vogel, one can further see Kleiweg de Zwaan in
Feesth. Bat. Gen. 1(1929), pp. 316-320, with regard to the Archipelago.
For Fu-nan, contemporaneous instance i cited by Coedés in BEFEO., 31
(1932), p. 2f

3. ¢. 8» Van Hinloopen Labberton in Zeitscbr, Deutsch. Morg. Gesellsch.
66 (1912), pp. 1668.; cf. Vogel, pp. 234

Google
The Oldest Hindu Kingdoms 17

with those of Vignu. Ie does not at all follow from the last statement
that he was definitely a Vaisnavite; Indian kings, as well as Javanese
kings, such as we shall see, brought themselves readily in connexion
with Visnu, although they were otherwise Saivite. The only permis.
sible conclusion therefore is that the king was not a Buddhist.

The name Parnavarman is again one of the anticipated Varman-
names; and next co that we learn the state-name Taruma. It is a nice
remark of Pleyte’ that the name is still probably preserved in that of
the river Ci Tarum, the border-river between earlier Batavia and
Krawang; the domain of the king must have then stretched
considerably further to the east than where his inscriptions were
found. Tarum is an Indonesian word for indigo, and there are so
many names of places and kingdoms which are borrowed from the
vegetable-world that there is, by itself, no difficulty in regarding this
name as of similar origin.? To bring it in relation with Prolemy’s
Argyté is, in any case, impossible.

The other inscriptions from the same vicinity can add but litele to
what Ciaruteun contains. At Kébon Kopi stands a line of writing
between two spoors of elephant-feet, stating that these are the feet
of the elephant of the triumphant king of Taruma, whose name is
illegible. More elaborate is the insctiption of Jambu, above which
stands again a very indistinct pair of human feet; this inscription, as
appeats from the script, is somewhat younger than the one discussed
first (possibly by half a century, as we saw already), and wholly in
conformity with this fact is, that Parnavarman is distinctly placed in
the past, The content is, namely, once again only an eulogy of ‘the
king; the illustrious, dutiful protector, the incomparable king, who
formerly (pura) ruled in Tatuma, named H. M. Parnavarman. His
foot-pair is said to be able to destroy the hostile towns, to bring welfare
to the dependent kings, but to be a thorn to the side of the enemies.
Ie is thus entirely a sacred place endowed with supernatural power,
where the hero from the past makes his power fele among the progeny.

1 Het Daghet l (1905-6), p. 178.
2 Itis also possible that the name has been brought over from South
India; see Schnitger in Tidschr. Bat. Gen. 74 (1934), p. 18f.

3
Google
18 The Oldest Hindu Kingdoms

The fourth rock-inscription at Muara Ciantén is not yet deciphered;
ie is couched in the Moutished script that also appears at Ciaruteun.*
Yet the fifth one is again much more important. It is that which
stood at Tugu, thus at a far distance from the rest; to judge by the
script, it should be placed between that of Ciaruteun and of Jambu,
but, as has already been argued, we attach no exaggerated value to this
chronological sequence. The content, literally translated in all its
clumsiness, is the following :

(2) Formerly, dug by the overlord , of kings, the strong-armed
guru, the Candrabhigi, having reached the famous town, streamed
to the ocean, (2) in the twenty-second year of his prosperous reign,
by the illustrious Parnavarman, resplendent in prosperity and virtue,
excelling above other kings, (3) begun in the month Philguna, 8th
day of the dark half, and completed in Caitra, 13th day of the
bright half, (was) dug in twenty-one days, (4) streaming over an
extent of 6122 bow-lengths,? the charming river Gomati, of pure
water, (5) after clearing through the camp of the patriarchal
royal sage floweth forth endowed with a gife of thousand cows by the
Brahmans.

Ie is evident that this information provokes not a little measure of
uncertainty about what has been narrated. Is the venerable overlord of
kings of line (1) actually the patriarchal sage of line (5) the same as
Parnavarman, oris he just the predecessor, under whom in former times
the river named Candrabhagi formed the water-course or water-outlet,
which was replaced by Parnavarman’s work, the Gomati, so that this
latter one should henceforward cleave through the camp of the sage?
We dare not decide it, but we think one thing is clear in spite of all
further possible differences of opinion, and it is this, that Parnavar-
man in the twenty-second year of his reign took the initiative in
improving the hydraulic condition of the place, by the digging of that
canal.

1 Also at Pasir Awi, somewhat more to the east, one finds similar flouri-
shed letters or Aourishes resembling letters on a rock. :

2 ile, somewhat more than 11 K.M., or according to another computation
about 19 K.M.

Google
The Oldest Hindu Kingdoms 19

The importance of this lies, first of all, in che high number of the
regnal years; this indicates a prolonged reign and a peaceful establish-
ment and precludes that Pirnavarman settled here only temporarily
and should have been an overseas ruler vanishing soon. Moreover,
people do not lay out canals in a place where they do not intend co
reside. If Patnavarman was thus a Hindu—on the chances of Hindu
ized Indonesian we have spoken already in connexion with Borneo—
he was a Hindu who had landed in anew fatherland asa colonist.
The great distance of his commemorative documents and the presence
of a portion thereof far into the interior suggest the possession of an
extensive dominion which remained not at all limited to the coastal
region, being obviously the place to be sought for traders, and which,
if we may judge by the name of the Ci Tarum, extended considerably
eastwards; if the old capital was indeed situated by the said river, itis
even admissible that the borders of the kingdom at one extremity lay
still further to the cast. The canal should most probably be sought
near Tugu, so also the camp of the patriarchal royal sage; the name
of the city is not however mentioned.

The Indian time-computation* and the gift of cows by the
Brahmans are, of course, wholly Hinduistic; moreover, it deserves to
be mentioned that next to the inscription a great staff (trident?) has
been carved upon the stone, of which the significance is not clear
unless one sees in it only an emblem of dignity, just as an umbrella
is carved out later and as in a still later period foot-prints again appear
along with this; but that is in the east of the island a good thousand
years after they were employed for the first time for Parnavarman.
Tudian are also both the river-names; whether (as Kern thought) the
Candeabhaga and che Gomati are here in Java two names for one and
the same channel or whether two, an older and a newer water-course,
have been intended is difficult to say; in India they are in any case
two separate rivers, both of which bring us to the Pafijab. To conclude
from this that among the colonists there were also men from the north-

west of India, is an inference which we should not admit; this point

1 As Vogel remarks (p. 32), the method of month-calculation betrays a
South-Indian influence,

Google
20 The Oldest Hindw Kingdoms

we have already discussed elsewhere? and we shall not go into a
repetition but shall restrict ourselves to the remark that men in giving
Indian names to towns, hills or rivers in the new places of settlement
—it holds good also for Further-India®—have generally adopted well-
known Indian names, but these were not at all specially borrowed from
the region from which the colonists came themselves, The best proof
of this is that one finds so many names from the heroic poems and
other “learned” sources and that in Java places lie in the neighbourhood
of one another whose names appear to be derived from the most
remotely situated Indian regions, That cannot possibly signify that
colonists from various parts of India concoursed together, but only
this that, at the moment of giving names, a certain set of names, no
matter how in origin and however combined, had something to appeal
to the name-giving Hindus, that isto say, to the lettered spiritual
advisers in their midst.

Before we get out of these inscriptions, we should further remark
that an ancestor of Parnavarman (in contradistinction to Kutei) is
nowhere mentioned; there is pethaps an allusion to the preceding reign
of the royal sage, who is enigmatical to us, but for the contemporaries
pethaps required no further description and, after all, as we observed,
may also have been Pirnavarman himself.

On this society of the beginning of the fifth century a somewhat
cleater light is projected by the Chinese account of the wanderings
of the Buddhist pilgrim Fab-hien.? The great mercantile ship which
he had boarded in Ceylon for going back to China was caught ina
hurricane and lost the course; at length it arrived, after ninety days’

- wanderings, in the land Ye-p’o-t’i, “In that land flourish the heretics
and the Brahmans‘, but the doctrine of Buddha is hardly worth
mentioning.” After staying there for five months, Fab-hien got the
opportunity to continue his journey to Canton in another ship and
after varjous kinds of fresh vicissitudes he reached his destination,

1 Inleiding I, p. 129. 2. Pelliot BEFEO, 4 (1904), p. 157-

3 Groeneveldt, pp. 6-9 (Si yw hi, transl, Beal, I, 1906, p. LXXXI); cf.
Chang I. 1. p. 5f.

4 Or: heresies and Brahmanism; Giles, The eravels of Fa-bsien (1923).
p. 78.

Google
The Oldest Hinds Kingdoms 21

The year of Fab-hien’s visit is exactly known, 414, while the five
months may perhaps fall from December to May. In the land
Ye-p’ot'i, one immediately recognises Yavadvi(pa), and this was, of
course, always taken to be Java, till Ferrand eventually explained?
it as Sumatra because of the citcumstance that the route from Ceylon
to Canton passes by Palembang. Ie appears to be overlooked that the
storm already broke out two days after the departure from Ceylon and
from that moment the usual route cannot be expected of aship wander-
ing off from the course; we think, therefore, that we may stick to the
old opinion and imagine, as of old, Fak-hien in Java, From the
narration, one gets the impression that the communication through the
sea was relatively scarce and difficult; from the stated cirumstances (all
of which we cannot mention) it is also clear that the fairly large ship
with a crew of 200 heads, was Indian, and thus navigation to the
Far East was still in Indian hands.

What the Chinese pilgrim now finds in Java—and this is the
chiet importance of his information—is manifestly a Hinduized society.
If the flourishing of the heretics and the Brabmans (another translation
is: heretical Brahmans) strikes him, that cannot refer to a trade colony
of the Hindus under an Indonesian population, but to the position of
the people in general. The Buddhists were thus an insignificant
minority, but the heretics and che Brahmans, thus the non-Buddhists,
formed the great majority. Now, what one has to understand by the
heretics? Naturally, that cannot be answered with certainty but Kern
refers to the parlance of the later Chinese pilgrim Hiien-tsang, who
also frequently denominates the Brahmans and heretics beside cach
other, and reckons the Saivite sect of PaSupatas to be under those
heretics at least in one passage.’ It is true that, if one designates all
people, whose creed is in conflict with that of the Upanisads and
Vedintins, to be heretics, there are many more to be called heretics
than these Saivites; nevertheless, when we know that later on there
were indeed PaSupatas in Java, it is not inadmissibe that by the heretics
of Fab-hien one has to chink, amongst others, of this sect.

1 Jas. 143 20 (1922), p. 211. 2 VGYII (1917), pp. 1378.

Google
22 The Oldest Hindu Kingdoms

The inferior position of Buddhism could have changed soon after
the departure of the pilgrim, if we may consider the account of the
preaching of Gunavarman, which has been incorporated in the
Kao-seng-chw'en (biography of an eminent religieux) of 519, to refer
to Java.’ This prince from Kagmir, taken into the Buddhistic monks’
order, settled himself in Ceylon and set out from that place for the
land Ché-p’o. Supported by the queen-mother, who was informed of
his advent by a dream, he propagated Buddhism over the whole land.
In 424 he again left Ché-p'o, giving effect to an invitation from the
Chinese emperor, and died in 431 at Nanking.

What kind of Buddhism was preached by Gunavarman can be
defined a little more precisely with the help of a different account,
according to which he translated a text of the sect of the Dharmaguptas,
a sub-division of the Milasarvastivada-school. A couple of centuries
later we shall find reference in I-tsing that this school, almost excluding
every other, was followed in the islands of the southern ocean, and
that everybody there, with one small exception, adhered to Hinayana,
The great expansion of this Hinayanistic Buddhism according to the
teaching of the Malasarvastivadanikaya could have been, at least for
the island of his special activities, an upshot of the advent of Gunavar-
man.

Meanwhile, uncertainty exists about that island. In Ché-p’o. one
can recognise Java and can again question himself, if it is Java ot
Sumatra®, One must here take into consideration that in the later
data Ché-p’o is definitely Java, but that the form with a palatalized
initial-consonant is used equally positively for Sumatra and that even
when it is assumed that the form Y for Java is the oldest and that
with J is secondary, the question still remains if that secondary
phenomenon may be put forward for more of less an early period; and

1 In Pelliot, Dewx itinéraires, pp. 274, Chavannes. T’oung Pao (1904),
pp. 193-206,

2 J. 4s, 14: 8 (1916), p. 46, For other works see HobSgirin, fasc, ann,
(2931), p- 137.

3 Oreven the Malay Peninsula, For different views on these subjects see
the first chapter of Majumdat’s Swvarnadvipa (1937) and the above mentioned
article of Moens.

Google
The Oldest Hindw Kingdoms 23

about that, no conclusive data are yet available. Though we may
thus readily place against the Ye-p’o-t’i=Java of Fahrhien, a Ché+p’o
= Sumatra of Gunavarman, we deem the latter identification to be as
little certain as (in the fifth century) a Ché-p’om Java.

The same Ché-p’o had in these years entered into relationship with
the Chinese empire through embassies and this in 433 and 4353 in
Chi-po lies the kingdom Ho-lo-tan, and from other years (430, 436,
449» 452) embassies are mentioned from Holo-tan'.. Which name
lies concealed there is yet unknown; it is like the appellation of the
king of Ché-p’o during Gugavarman’s sojourn, which sounds in the
Chinese mouth as P’o-to-kia, ot from that of 435 expressed as Che-li-
prota-t’o-ala-pa-mo*.

The possibility that we should, properly speaking, refer this last
information not to Java, but to Sumatra, induces us at present to pass
on to somewhat later data about that island. Incidentally, it may
be remembered that the oldest known kings of Cambodge, Srutavar-
man and Stesthavarman, of whom no epigraphic material is extant,
and who, known as they ate from a later inscription, are hardly
historical figures, also bear such Varman names, as indeed several of
their successors®,

About Sumatra in this oldest petiod, epigtaphy is wholly silent
and we must again go off to the foreign, ie., Chinese accounts,
They give it the name of Kan-t'o-li and then various guesses have
not been lacking about the real place to which the name should apply,
for it is only described as ‘‘on an island in the southern sea.” Judging
by the name, also rendered as Kandari, Kern thought of the island
Kondor,* against which stands the opinion of Groeneveldt that since

1 The passages in Pelliot, D. I., pp. 271-274; cf. JRAS., 1933, pp.
897-905.

2 According to Ferrand (J. as. 11: 8, 1916, p, 526), this should be Sri
bhatira Dvaravarman, In Enc, v Ned. Indie IV (1905), p. 367, Rouffaer had
proposed Sripada Piravarman, which, according to Sylvain Lévi (in Vogel,
p- 16) is inadmissible, In JRAS., 1, the king of 430, who also sent an
envoy in 433, was Pishabarma; the name of the envoy of 430 and 436, Pi jen,
may correspond to Visnu, according to Pelliot, JRAS., 1934, P. 3526

3. Pelliot, Fow-nan, p. 295,

4 VGVI (1917), p. 19

Google
24 The Oldest Hindu Kingdoms

later Chinese data (Ming dynasty) know it as a name for Palembang,
there is every feason to follow up the identification to the oldest
period’. In the end Fertand, after finding reference to the port of
Singkél in North-East Sumatra as “Sinkil Kandri” in the fifteenth
century Ibn Majid came to the conclusion that we have to do with
a name for entire Sumatra, which for that reason, refers to the
north-east as well as the south-west of the island.? Although the
great distance in time between these accounts and that with which we
are here concerned, stands in the way of getting certainty, it is yet
probable that in any case Kan-t'o-li must be sought somewhere in
Sumacra*,

In these accounts we see mentioned in the first place that its
manners and morals agree with those of Cambodge and Campa, and
that the land produced coloured stuffs, cotton and betelnuts of excellent
quality. During the time of emperor Hia-wu (452-464), King
Che-p’o-lo-narlicu-t’o sent a dignitary Tchu Lieu t’o to preseit valuable

objects of gold and silver to the emperor. In 502, king K’iu-t’an-sieu-
pat’olo had a dream that a Buddhist monk urged him to offer homage
to the Chinese emperor, and he went there in dream; on being awake
he sketched a portrait of the emperor and when an embassy later on
went to China and returned with a portrait of the emperor, this
appeared to agree fully with the dream-seen portraiture! This edifying
story finds its counterpart in the letter with which the successor of this
king, king P'i-ye-pa-mo, sent the high officer P’i-yuen-pa-mo to China
in 519 and in which the Chinese emperor is eulogised in a suitable
manner as a Buddhist and as a ruler. Golden flowers, perfume,
medicines wete presented. In 520 an embassy again came from the
selfsame king, bue in 563 reference is made for the last time to such
an offering of homage from Kan-t’o-lit

1 Notes, p. 60, {The passages in question are printed in pp, 60-62.

2 dea 14 (1919), pp. 238-41.

3. In Hand. Eerste Congr. Taal-Land-Volkenk. v, Java in 1919 (1921),
p-23, Westenenk further refers to K&nali, a marge in the upland of Krui,
Prayluski in Journal Gr. Ind. Soc. + (1934), pp. 96-101 supposes that Kandali
represents an indigenous name from the local flora, may be for the banana,

4 This does not occur in Groeneveldr, but in Pelliot, D.l., p. 501.

Google
The Oldest Hindu Kingdoms 25

That we cannot at all conclude from the content of such stories
or letters that the land in question was of fervent Buddhistic views
has already been remarked by Groeneveldt on another occasion*; the
ambassadors who were pethaps exclusively adroit businessmen passed
themselves off as ambassadors and courted royal favour by presenting
letters whose contents pleased the emperor; the official translators at
the Chinese Court could have also given a distinct colouring to the
documents. Most noteworthy are the years which carry us from 452
to 563 and the names. Regarding the names which are only known
from the Chinese source, the great variations in transcription and
identifications suggested by various scholars often make a perplexing
and (jf we may say so) even a comical impression on the non-
Sinologist; we shall render them here and in the following occasions
without presuming to give a judgment over them, but we should only
make the general observation that, in view of the new possibilities
which evidently crop up again and again when the study is undercaken
from another side, it would not be wise to consider these explanations
as definite solutions. ;

The oldest known king is deemed to bear the name of Srivaranaren-
dra (ot svaranarendra), his ambassador, that of Rudra, the Indian.
The Buddhistic king of 502 was Gautama Subhadra, his son was
known as Priyavarman or Vijayavarman, and the name of his
ambassador also commences with Vi and ends in Varman®, Whatever
we may think of the identifications one by one, it is evident that they
refer to a Hinduized kingdom and this tallies with che fact that our
source compates with it the equally Hinduized Cambodge and Campa.
But we ate not much enlightened about definite particulars of the land
in question.

Pechaps it is here the place co record something about another
vestige of Hindu influence in Sumatra, although it is not at all certain
that the influence in question should be supposed to have done its work
in this oldest petiod. We mean the folk-names, which have held their

1 Notes p. 12.

2 These identifications are to be found in the passages cited in the
previous notes, to which hes to be added Pelliot, Dil, p. 197; ef. also Gerini,
p- 602

4
Google
26 The Oldest Hindu Kingdoms

grounds, the most clearly in the subdivisions of Marga Simbiring of
the Karo-Bataks. One finds ehere Colija, Pandija, Mélijala, in which
Coliyan (Cola), Pandya, Malayalam (Malabar) can easily be recognised,
besides Pélavi which can stand for Mélavi, Malay, but may also be
brought in connexion with Pallava, and Tekang, perhaps Tekhanam,
the Tamil for Deccan (Tekhanamunei=Cape Comorin). That all
these refer to South-India as the land of origin, even if we leave out
the uncertain names, is quite obvious, and so already the influence of
the Tamils has been long recognised,” and then, of course, of Hindui-
zed Tamils; witness names like Bérabmana (brdhmana). Now, it is a
fact that the intercourse between Sumatra and South India subsequently
became very intense: in the fourteenth century we shall find aking
of what would once be Minangkabau employing both native and
South Indian script in one of his inscriptions; so also a Tamil-insctip-
tion from the eleventh century has been found near Baros. Conse-
quently the. giving of South Indian names should perhaps be assigned
to that later period, but it is by no means inadmissible that the founda-

tions of the above mentioned things were laid at a very early period.

Another land about which we are enlightened by the Chinese in
the beginning of the sixth century is Lang-ya or Lang-ya-sieu; we
have already seen above that according to its people, it had already
existed for four hundred years. At present, it is no longer believed
that the place lay in Java; as a matter of fact, there is some agreement
that it is to be sought in the Malay Peninsula and is the selfsame
country which is called Léngkasuka in later (also in Javanese). sources;
but regarding its actual position, there is no unanimity of opinion, for
the authors who have written on the subject suggest Tenasserim as well
as Johor-Lama and the isthmus of Ligor (this last identification is
pethaps the most probable one)*. In any case, since it falls outside
the Archipelago, we shall describe it very briefly,

1 Joustra, Tijdschr. Bat. Gen, 45 (1902), pp. 541-576; Kern, VG., Ill
(1915), pp. 67-72; Ypey. Bijdrage tot de Kennis etc. der Toba en Dairibataks
(1932), pp. 71-753 cf. Tideman, Hindoe-inuloed in Noordelijh Batakland (1936).

2 Pelliot, D.l., pp. 405-407; Ferrand, J. as. 11: 10 (1918), pp. 134-1455
Rouffser, Bijdr, Kon, Inst. 77 (1921), pp. 89-203; Lévi, J. «s., 203 (1923),
pp. 378.

Google
The Oldest Hindu Kingdoms 27

We read! that the climate and the products are the same as those
of Cambodge and that the country produces a great quantity of aloc-
wood and camphor-oil, that the people go about with naked upper part
of their body, loose-hanging hair and a cotton sarong about their lower
limbs; the king and the nobility wear, on the other hand, a thin
loriated upper-cloth, a golden girdle and golden ear-rings; the walls
are made of brick, with double gateways and watch-towers; the king
rides on an elephant, under a white canopy, encircled by feather-fans,
banners and drums and with a great military suite. One of the kings
was married with a princess of India in which country he had some
time lived in banishment; his son was known as P’o-k’ie-ta-to, which
is rendered by Bagadatta, and this person despatched in 515 an ambas-
sador A-tch’é-to to China with a letter, whose content again bettays a
great leaning towards Buddhism. Later embassies from the same land
are further mentioned in.523, 531 and 568.*

After just recalling the fact that in this very time che first Buddhist
patriarch of China, Bodhidharma, had travelled from India to Canton,
by sea-way (520, 521 or 527)* and consequently must have crossed,
the Archipelago, we shall finally consider the data about a land which,
is also shrouded in uncertainty; it is situated on an island in the sea,
to the south-east of Canton and thus positively belongs to the Archipe-
lago. - Ic is called P’o-li, Ie was first placed in the, north-coast of
Sumatra and later on identified as Bali, although some of the given
particulars fit in with none of the two islands, as for instance, ‘the
measurement of fifty days from East to West and ewenty days from
North to South, which would much better agree with Borneo (Puni)*
or South Sumatra.* There are 136 villages, the climate is warm,,
the vegetation is luxuriant, ice is reaped twice a year, People use
cotton for theit clothes, the king wears fabric of floriated silk and
bears a tiara of gold with precious stones, his sword is inlaid with gold,

1 Notes pp. 10ff 2 Pélliot, p. 405.
3 See Ferrand, J. as., 11: 13 (1919), p. 462.
4 Notes, pps 80-84; I-tsing, Record, p, 10; Pelliot, Dal. pp. 279-285.
5 Bretschneider, On the knowledge possessed by the ancient Chinese etc,
(1872), p. 18 and Kern, VG. VI (1917), p. 217.
6 = Moens I. las pp: 353-360.

Google
28 The Oldest Hindu Kingdoms

his throne is also of gold, His female attendants, decked in golden
flowers, etc., carry fans of peacock-feathers and white feather-fans,
he rides on a carriage drawn by an elephant, under a canopy of white
feathers and surrounded by shell blowers and drummers.

After these ethnological particulars, sounding in our eats as already
partly known and applicable to many of these kingdoms, emerges
something of more importance: the king’s tamily name is Kaundinya,
and the consort of Suddhodana was a lady from their land, The
family-relation we can dismiss at once but it may appear from the story
that the royal-dynasty, in which this tradition flourished, was derived
or considered itself to be derived from India, We may also remember
in this connexion that Kaundinya was the name of the Brahman who
founded the kingdom Fu-nan, from which originated the later Cam-
bodge.?' In 518 an embassy carries che usual Buddhistic letter, and
in 523 king Pin-ka sent through the intermediary of the ambas-
sador Chu-pa-ti white parrots, glass objects, cotton, shell-basins, per-
fume and medicine. ‘That is to be found in the history of the Li-ang
dynasty (503-556), and that of the Sui-dynasty (589-618) adds
further that the king’s family name is Ch’a-li-ya-ka and his proper
name is Hu-lan-na-po, while the officers are known as Tu-ka-yana and
those of the lower category as Tu-ka-si-na; the proficiency of the people
in hurling discs is mentioned, the customs are said to be like those of
Cambodge. Murder and theft are punished with the mutilation of
hands, adultery with one year’s hard labour in chains; a sacrifice is
held when there is no Moon and then a basin with wine and eatables
is set adrife in the water. After the embassy from 616, they ceased
to arrive at court. Nevertheless, under the T'ang dynasty one
further embassy is recorded in 630."

The directions about the geographical position can give no cettain-
ty to the question whether Bali has really been meant, but the later by-
form Ma-li and the formal assurance that it lay to the east of Holing,
as we shall see a nomenclature for Java, form the foremost arguments
in favour of this view. In any case it appears that an island of the

1 See, for example, Finot, Ball. Comm Arch. Indo-Chine, 1911, p. 3aff.
2 Pelliot, p. 285,

Google
The Oldest Hindu Kingdoms 29

Archipelago has clearly been intended. We also find here a Hinduized
society which, although somewhat later than the previous cases, was
settled and flourishing when it came in contact with China, The
oldest data in respect of the existence of such Hindu kingdoms are
closed with itc—we leave Further India out of consideration—and the
task will consequently be to take together the summed-up data, to see
to which conclusions we are entitled and how we may fill up the
lacunae with the least chance of error, in order to form an idea of the
nature of the oldest colonisation.

After the commercial intercourse of the first century and the
traces—still faine—of a somewhat deeper penetrating Indian influence
from the beginning of the second, the colonisation appears to become
an accomplished fact in the fourth century. Whereas the consolidation
of the new state of affairs appears to occur, as for instance in Borneo,
only a couple of generations back, elsewhere valuable tradition refers
it to a considerably older period. Indeed, there is every reason to
believe that although the Hindus perhaps sailed out for different
regions in about the same time, it was, on the whole, dependent on
the circumstance whether they settled in particular places sooner ot
lates, and whether the people among whom they landed adapted them-
selves to the new culture with more or less promptness. All things
taken together, it seems to us to be the most probable hypothesis that
in course of the first century of the Christian era the intercourse with
the east led to settlement there, and as a result of it colonial Hindu
kingdoms originated, sometimes relatively quickly, elsewhere after a
course of one or two centuries. Second and third centuries appear to
be the proper colonisation period.

In so far as there are indirect data regarding the point of departure
of the colonising Hindus, they refer for this oldest period definitely to
Southern India and to the kindom of the Pallavas; this remark is how-
ever subject to the condition that since the Pallavas first come to our
notice in the fourth century, perhaps we must think of the kingdom
which preceded them in the first century of the Christian era, Re-
gatding the change of authority in these regions during this remote
ancient period, some vague accounts have come down to us; it is, of
course, not at all precluded that political circumstances had a bearing

Google
30 The Oldest Hindu Kingdoms

upon colonisation, in so far as they created in the oppressed people ot
a section of the people a desire to ensure for themselves a new exis-
tence in the lands of the East, of which something was known to them
through commercial intercourse. All this remains however merely a
conjecture.

On the contrary, it is not a conjecture when we get, from the
combination of our epigtaphic data with the Chinese accounts and by
viewing them as one whole, the impression of a Hinduized society,
not of a number of independent Hindu colonies in foreign tacts.
The inscriptions could still be brought to agree with this latter idea
and, in pare at least, could be explained as emanating from a group of
Hindus who were entirely without any connexion with the original
population or even had got down in completely uninhabited regions,
somewhere in foreign tracts, just like the white colonists of later
centuries in Australia, In view of the ethnological particulars given
by the Chinese, this explanation does not however seem plausible, the
less so when we consider the explicitly stated similarity with Cambodge
and Campi, and particularly the sequel of the culeure-history. It is
the community which has adopted Hindu culture; it is partly of pure
Hindu origin, but to the other part we cannot deny an original
indigenous element.

Moreover, we must always remember that the community of which
we speak here was, for the present, limited to the higher circles. and
to the centre of colonisation. It is evident chat the Hinduization of
the general masses had not or had hardly taken place and that, inas-
much as we move off from the culture-centre, the Hindu influence
continually becomes less perceptible,

Although such a Hinduized society manifestly looked the same
everywhere in broad outline, and the Chinese also frequently employ,
the selfsame expressions in different passages, it is obvious that there
were various gradations, and we should not for a single moment think

of uniformity, because, in the first place, the original native of such an

1 Gonggrijp, Schets cener economische geschiedenis van Nederlandsch-
Indie, V. U. B. 41 (1928), p. g calls Hinduism a “bay-roof” of the original
Indonesian Society.

Google
The Oldest Hindu Kingdoms 3

extensive colonisation-region would present remarkable differences; in
the second place, the Hindu-immigranes of one place could have: con-
siderably differed from others in number and grade; in the third place,
various local circumstances could have exerted their influence. It seems
plausible that the further course of colonisation in its diverse results
has to be explained from such differences.

We have already stated several times that we ascribe the origin of
the new society in Java and elsewhere to a peaceful process based
upon commercial intercourse. Now, since we come in conflict with
a different opinion which postulates conquest and views the Hindus
and the natives as the rulers and the ruled, itis desirable to go into
the matter somewhat deeper. Direct data cannot be adduced in
support of any of the two views. But otherwise, no one has ever
suggested (we state this in order to prevent misunderstanding) that we
can speak of a conquest from India, in the sense that the overseas
regions were the dependencies of an Indian central authority. There
is not the slightest trace about it, and the Hindus in the colonies have
rightly been viewed as politically entirely free from the motherland ;
the intercourse with the motherland was maintained, at best, by
mercantile ships, and that this intercourse was not yet wholly brisk
is indicated by the story of the little shipping opportunity which
Fah-hien found in Java in the fifth century. The gestion is
consequently only this: whether the fashion-setting Hindus stationed
themselves in the Archipelago by right of conquest and imposed
their institutions, willy-nilly, upon the overthrown population, of
the adoption of the Hindu culture by the leading circles was, on the
contrary, an effect of peaceful penetration, starting from merchants,
who, after settlement, entered into relationship with the natives and
then pethaps invited more countrymen (also’ non-ttaders) to follow

their example.

Ie is again on the basis of later results, i.e., from what we observe
when we are more accurately enlightened about the Javanese society,
that we ate in general inclined towards the last-mentioned opinion.
The society under its official Hindu-exterior preserved the Indonesian
peculiarities in so strong measure and represented the peculiarities so
clearly even in the highest functions of public administration that one

Google
32 The Oldest Hindu Kingdoms

must, for later times, very certainly attribute to the indigenous ele-
ment an important part in the organisation and government—a part,
which is much more important than what should happen to a section of
the population under foreign domination. Ie is even probable that this
share was in reality much greater than is obvious to us, because in a
- combination of higher (or maintained as higher) and lower culture one
can see that people belonging to the low category assume the air of
the higher order than the reverse, It is cherefore very well possible
that various kinds of disguised and denominated Indonesian matters
further persist in functions and organisations which pass off in sounding
gab as Hindu. Now, it is of course the weak point in this conclusion
that nobody can guarantee that, what is obviously the case in the later
society should also be applied to the early society of the first colonisa-
tions. No longer fostered from the mother-country, the repulsion
of the once dominating Hindu clement by the native vigour in the
course of a few centuries is, in itself, not at all improbable ; but then
one has to expect the weakening much more over the whole line;
moteover, on the same occasions, a very strong Hindu tradition is
noticeable in other respects. This fellowship between a strong attach-
ment to Hinduism and the emergence of Indonesian clements in the
highest functions of the state is not tobe viewed as the result of a
reaction; it is rather the natural manner by which the already-
existing Indonesian organisation adapted itself to the voluntarily and
convictionally adopted superior culture of the foreigners, who had
become their country-fellows. On this internal ground, it has every
chance of being applicable, so far as the principal characteristics are
concerned, to the older Hindu-Indonesian society preceding it; through
circumstances, we can discern its traces only at a later stage.

To comprehend fully the results, the emphasis must fall, in our
opinion, on the voluntary adoption of the Hindu culture. By this
we do not mean that nowhere coercion was employed or no-
where blood was spilt; it is not certainly impossible chat while
the colonisation was in swing and perhaps greater groups of Hindus
arrived together,’ they could have surely confided not only in their

1 Betg, Hoofdliinen der Javaansche literatunr-geschiedenis (1929) pp. 12-14

Google
The Oldest Hindu Kingdoms 33

higher culture but also in their better armament; an appeal to them
is especially obvious in cases where political circumstances in the
mother-land led to emigration in a greater scale and rendered return
difficult, Instructive in that respect is the manner in which the
Chinese reproduce the story of the foundation of Fu-nan, to which
reference has already been made above; according to tradition, the
Brahman Kaundinya who came from India planted on that occasion a
spear on the ground of shot an arrow, undoubtedly a magical
proceeding, but the Chinese give the explanation that he made a
show in order to awaken fear in the heart of the inhabitants by his
superiority in fighting method. That could have also happened
elsewhere, but speaking generally, we should rather visualise a fight
between the Hinduized Indonesians and the tribesmen not yet
convinced of the blessings of the new culture and desirous of ranging
themselves against it. Not that we know anything about it, but it is
such an usual course of things that with the gaining of ground by an
exotic culture, the section of the people who has first adopted it burns
with ardour to make others also profit by it even against their will;
against it there stands a conservatism which increases in austerity
as its position weakens,

Yet in another respect the Cambodian story bears a trait of signi-
ficance; it is the martiage of the Brahman, who brought Indian
culture, with a princess of the land (cither supposed as a “‘savage””
of as a nigi). The trait is, in a higher sense, perfectly conformable
to historical truth; matrimonial alliances between foreigners and native
women form one of the most practical and sure expedients of introduc-
ing a new culture, When the traders are come,” have made them-

and Tijdschr. Aard, Gen 47 (1930) pp. 2450. assigns an important role to the
Indian robber-barons who assured for themselves a position in the Archipelago,
not only in the epoch of the first colonisation but also in later centuries. See,
on the other hand, the more correct view of Hocsein Djajadiningrat in Djawa
9 (1929) pp. 210-214. Van Leur, Ond-Asiatische bandel (1934) pp. 114-156
lays stress on the role of the Brahmans, invited to come over for liturgical pur
poses. For emigration from political causes cf Lévi, J. As. 220 (1936) p. 94-

1 See Finot, op. cit. p. 33+

2 One is referred to the outline in Ferrand, J. 4s, 11: 14 (1919) pp. 13-18.

5
Google
34 The Oldest Hindu Kingdoms

selves agreeable to the native chiefs by presents, medicines, amulets,
perhaps have given out the loftiness of their descent, and have made
themselves familiar with the native language, then the foremost
step for securing a firm and abiding position in the land is the
marriage with a daughter of one of the chiefs, and the same step is
of paramount importance for making the culture from abroad the
country’s own in the long run; such women are the natural pro-
pagandists among their countrymen to disseminate new conceptions,
manners and morals, in this task they follow their husbands; sucla
women ate also the mothers of a new generation that is partly rooted
in the old stock, partly belongs to the new culture. With the influx
of new colonists, the multiplication of such alliances and of the
descendants issuing from them, originates the mixed Hindu-Indonesian
society, in which the foreign element is gradually no longer felt as
foreign.

The Brahman as a representative of the Indian culture finds his
Javanese counterpart in the Brahman Tritresta, who would have
brought his religion and time calculation in Java, and whose son
would have been a king there; a different tradition ascribes the time-
calculation, even as the Javanese alphabet, to a certain India-arrived
Aji Saka, a lucid name which signifies no other than the Saka-era
itself.’ This time-calculation is the well known one which begins in
78 A.D., and which was very common particularly in Southern India;
it is quite obvious that the introduction of time-calculation and

Hindu-culture in Java was supposed in later centuries to fall at a
poine of time when the era commenced; it was thus in 78, but of
course this-has'not any historical basis*, because the Saka-teckoning

He compares the method of Islamic propaganda which he himself has seen
applied to Madagascar.

1 These stories, already noticed in Raffles (History of Java Il, pp. 66),
are further discussed by Lassen, Indische Altertbumskunde I? (1874) pp. 1062-
1076, and Veth, Java 1? (1896) pp. 15-18.

2 That Sakas could have actually come to the Archipelago from Western
India —theic expulsion roughly coincides with the oldest traces of Hinduism in
the islands-was proposed by Stutterheim, Indian influences in the Lands of
the Pacific (1929) p.5. Ou a supposed later introduction of the Suka year cf.
Sarkar, Jour, Proc, As. Soc, Bengal, N.S. 29 (1933) pp. 17-21

Google
The Oldest Kingdoms 35

came into vogue much later even in India itself. The oldest
inscriptions of the Archipelago are, as we have observed, not at all
dated. A letter received at the Chinese court in 1432 places the
foundations of the Javanese kingdom 1376 years ago, that would
consequently be in 56 A.D., but the Chinese themselves have
calculated upon its basis chat the foundation should have occurred in

the initial year of Yuen-k'ang period of emperor Hiaosiien, i.e., in
65 B.C This difference has not yet been explained, bue the reference
has got no other value than that of a Javanese tradition from the
fifteenth century. On the possibility that Aji Saka (considered then
as a personification of Hindu-culture) would have come from Guierat,
we shall speak in the following chapters all internal data regarding
the oldest phase discussed here exclusively refer us to South-India.*

Ics clear that in order to obtain definite results, the Hinduism
must have found, as we have observed in different places, a favourable
nourishing ground and there must have been points of contact between
the Hindus and the Indonesians. The earlier intercourse of che
Archipelago with South-India which we have discussed previously
pethaps contributed to that receptiveness; it is surely remarkable that
the Hindu culture brought about such a great social and spiritual
revolution, while the Chinese had no gripping power at all upon the
Indonesians; surely there have bezn Chinese in the Archipelago for
centuries as “residents” and founders of families, bur in che develop-
ment of the land (except, here and there, in an economic sense) the
influence from that quarter has been almost negligible.

Naturally, Hindu-colonisation itself had not the same history
everywhere, influenced as it was by accidental circumstances; in one
colony, it might have occurred that the descendants of the Hindus
themselves founded, e.g., through matrimonial alliances with royal
families, a royal dynasty, as the Bulinese Kaundinya boasted of his
Indian pedigree; in another colony the Indonesian royal house,
although Hinduized, continued, as we surmised in the case of Kutei.
Sometimés ancient Indonesian traditions might have been conveniently

1 Grocneveldt, Notes p. 39.
2 CE, Sarkar in Journ. Gr. Ind. Soc. 1 (1934) pp- 54 57.

Google
36 The Oldest Kingdoms

given up, elsewhere they could have been carefully retained, with or
without Hindu-disguise, At a distance the image appears in a general
way to be everywhere approximately the same, and one is, in our
opinion, nearest to the truth when he supposes an original Indonesian
community, remaining Indonesian in its organisation, in which Hindu-
culture and Hindu religion were taken up and in various spheres of
which the Hindu-forms became the leading ones.

It is impracticable to control the particulars of chis oldest period.
But we can rightly think chac at this time the community must have
had - already a conversational language (beside the Sanskrit of official
documents); it would be preposterous to suppose that the language had
undergone a principal modification between its formation and the oldest
specimens available to us; in other words, we may formulate that the
general characteristics of the Old-Javanese were also in vogue at the
time of Taruma and Ho-lo-tan, The language is Indonesian, but the
large number of Indian words assures the conclusion that they represent
ideas which were brought over by the Hindus, and these terms appear
to belong to social, religious and moral domain, in short, the higher
spiritual assets are of Indian origin.

A second inference is to be drawn from the fact that the Indian
ideas are preserved in their Sansktit-form. The Hindu-colonists did
not of course speak Sanskrit as a colloquial language among themselves,
but a Prakre; for intercourse with the native population, they learnt
the native language. Regarding the higher ideas which they gradually
wished to interpret, they used their “high’” language, i.e. the forms
used for instruction to others, not for their own daily needs. The
language which proceeded from it and which we later on know as
Old-Javanese is then essentially the language of the Indonesians initiated
into the new culture; it has been fashioned and propagated inasmuch
as the children of the soil were Hinduized; it is not a mixture of
Hindu colloquial language and Indonesian colloquial language, but an
Indonesian language with accretions of Hindu-terms; this explanation
agrees with the remark of Brandes’ thacin the oldest Old-Javanese
available to us the Sanskrit words leave the impression of being taken

1 Tijdschr, Bat. Gen, 32 (1889) p. 130.

Google
The Oldest Hindu Kingdoms 37

upon hearing. That sucha language gained ground even among
the descendants of the Hindus indicates that the people who used it
must have been, for the greater part, Indonesian in origin, and that
the Hindus and Hindu-companions who occupied the leading positions
did this merely on account of the recognised supericrity of the culture
represented and borne by them?

Before all opposition was worn out and the Hindu-Javanese society
formed the harmonical unit which we first clearly recognise in the
cighth century, there must have elapsed long years in which che
Hindu culture was yet strange and exotic, which was admiringly and
willingly appropriated, but in which they could not yet feel at home.
The unity had co be brought about by give and take, by adaptation on
either side. In the following chapters we shall try to be acquainted
with this phenomenon somewhat more precisely; here the task was to
render an account of how the first foundations were laid in the
colonisation-period and how some characteristic traits must have been
present from the beginning.

—-—o——

The first Central-Javanese period

After the signs of life from the fifth century and thereabout,
which clearly and convincingly testify to Hindu-influence in the
Archipelago, it would appear that there set in either a kind of reaction
or at least some stagnation. Is this merely apparent? It may bea
mere accident that the epigraphic data in Java are silent for a couple
of centuries ; it also appears in later times and in other regions that
the presence of epigraphic data is dependent on other factors than on
the question; whether the organs, from whom the promulgation of
edicts of religious inscriptions is to be expected, were present in a
particular period Indeed, contrary to expectation, we find important
inscriptions from insignificant periods and an equally inexplicable
scarcity of epigraphic materials from periods of great political and
culcural efflorescence. And so far as the Chinese data ate concerned,

1 Regarding the influence of Sanskrit and the method by which it exerted
its influence, see also. Drewes in Schricke, The effect of Western influence
on the native civilisations in the Malay Archipelago (1929) pp. 130-132.

Google
38 The first Central-Javanese period

the gap that follows after what we have discussed in the previous
chapter finds explanation in this fact, that such data are more or less
connected with the maintenance of relationship with foreign countries;
consequently a period of inactivity on the Chinese side by the with-
holding of embassies to and from the islands of the Archipelago
would leave the incorrect impression, as if a less stimulating life held
sway in the Archipelago. In the same manner, the presence of new
data since the seventh century is to be explained by greater interest
shown in foreign affairs since the advent of the T’ang-dynasty in 618,

Thus, the lacuna in our sources of information, by itself, need not
lead us to the conclusion that there was really some kind of stagnation
or reaction, The matter will however appear in a different light
if we remark that as soon as the data come back to our service,
transformations appeat to have set in, of which the bearing we can
not indeed wholly judge, but which nevertheless seem to be of extra-
ordinary interest, specially in connexion with the further course of
history. At present, we shall try to ascertain how those transforma-
tions can be best studied.

The least satisfactory are those data which enlighten us about
Borneo, where the Kutei-inscriptions of Milavarman are followed by
a period of complete darkness. Many centuries afterwards, East-
Borneo reverts to the domain of history when the kingdom of Maja-
pahic exercised its sway there: Kutei then appears under the
foreign possessions of that kingdom. As a resule of its domination,
unmistakable traces of Javanese culture exist, as already mentioned,
specially in South-Borneo. It does not yet seem possible to recognise
among them anything from an older preceding Hindu culeure. Conse-
quently, we do not know in the least if the Javanese overthrew a
Hinduized land in Borneo, notably in Kutei, or if they came there
among a people who did not differ from those of other Eastern islands
and had long ago lost recollection of earlier Hindu-culture. The
question, whether the Hinduism of Kutei was strong enough to conti-
nue its existence—may be in a strongly nativized form for want of
fresh contact with India—may perhaps be answered in the affirmative,
as the native tradition of the Salasilah gives us information about a
small independent state as Muarakaman with Hindu-institutions that

Google
The first Central-Javanese period 39

did not come from Java, and with rulers bearing Indian names
(Indramilya, Satyaguna, Dharmasatya, Satyayuddha) ; this state was
conquered by Kutei in the beginning of the 17th century. It has
lefe no other traces than the hoary stones with inscriptions and probab-
ly some images and little objects among the royal ornaments.

So is also the case in other regions of Borneo, where we observed
some antiquities presumably standing under direct Hindw-influence;
we can possibly come, in the region of the Kapuas for example, to a
somewhat later date than that of Miilavarman, as the letter-forms
seem to testify—although it may be conceded that the indistinctness
of available photos and estampages makes that view fairly uncertain—
still,-after a period somewhat later than Batu-Pahat we stand in any
case before a veid, An uncorroborated information is that in 669 an
ambassador came to China from the land Po-lo and in later accounts
this Polo is equated with Brunei? In these later accounts, it has
been very distinctly Javanised, but from the statement of 669 it does
not at all appear if it is a “civilised” country. In short, we continue
hete also to grope in the dark. Indeed, we do not know whether we
can speak of a colonisation before the seventh century, whether the
ambassador of that century came from a Hinduized land, or whether °
his state could have remained Hinduistic until the Javanese became all-
powerful in the beginning of the fifteenth century. The Chinese
themselves say that between 669 and 1406, the intercourse had ceased
for along time. For the sake of completeness, it may also be recalled
that ifsuch as we have recorded in a previous chapter as a not-
impossible conjecture—the Po-li of older accounts has t2 be sought in
Borneo, this would not also bring us any further, because the records
about Poli are silent after 630.

Before leaving aside Borneo, we may refer in this connexion to a
later notice regarding a different region of this great island, namely
Pueni on the West-coast, which was also subject to Java in the foure
teenth century, but of which we fortunately possess somewhat
older data,? because it has been recorded that an embassy came

1 Mees, De Kroniek van Kutat (1935) p. 12.
2 Groenevelde, Notes, p. tor, ef., Pelliot, Dil, p. 256.
3 Notes, p. 108-110,

Google
40 The first Central-lavanese period

to China in 977, for che first time, as it states explicitly. To
this have been added some particulars about land and people, for
which we refer to chapter VIII, but which, on the whole, leave the
impression of a Hinduized society, although Hinduism is very
litele pronounced and, as agsinst native custom, occupies a vety
modest position. Can this phenomenon be attributed to the fading
away of what was once much stronger, the results of a process of
nativisation? It is possible, but a different explanation may hold
equally true: the expansionist policy of the Javanese kingdom of
Dharmavaméa was launched in the second-half of the tenth century,
and an attempt was made in these years towards the Javanisation of
Bali, In the same way the p netration of Hinduism into Pu-ni might
have been effected in this time by the Javanese, but then, it was
confined to a region which had so far remained outside all foreign
influence. So this account does not provide us with any certainty
regarding the continuation of Borneo-Hinduism between the oldest
colonisation and the advent of the Javans.

If our preference to the equation of P’odi with’ Bali in the
previous chapter stands on good grounds, then here also a lacuna is
to be mentioned, because the first new signs of life of that island
after the last embassy from P¥oli in 630° consist of antiquities,

which, on account of the type of script employed, are to be placed
and that at the end of the last-

in the eighth and ninth centuries,
mentioned century the dated inscriptions first begin to appear. We
then find a Hinduized society, which appears to be of the same
ature as that of contemporary Java, but betrays. an individual
feature in some particulars,. specially in the use of a distinct Old-
Balinese (and not Old-Javanese) language. For this reason, one is
justified in arguing that the society originated, not through the
intermediary of Hindu-Java, but through a direct influx from India,*

1 Regarding the possibility that Bali is also meant by Dwa-pa-tan, which
sent an embassy in 647, see below.

2. See Stutcerheim, Oudbeden van Bali 1 (1929) pp. 35+ 52, 59 and cf.
pp. 104-108,

3 This view finds support from the appearance in Bali of an Upanisad not
found in Java, the Nardyana-Atharvasira-Upanigad; see Lévi in Versl, 6 de

Google
The first Central-Javanese period 4t

and in that case one can readily hold it to be a continuation of P’oli
described by the Chinese. If these older accounts are compared’ with
the data of the copper-plates, of which both the sources lie separated
from each other by about two centuries and a half, one can state,
that, what the insctiptions make us presume is certainly not
less Hinduistic than what the narratives of the Chinese make us
suppose. About a recession of the Hindu-element or an increase of
the native-influences, nothing is to be observed; on the contrary, if
both the sources are placed beside each other, we shall not hesitate to
hold the copper-plates to have taken the most Hinduistic complexion
of these two, Yet, this cannot, on the whole, be adduced as proof
regarding a fresh and more powerful Hinduism; from the nature of the
case, official royal inscriptions have more chances of betraying Hindu-
peculiarities chan the notes of foreigners on the people as a whole.
Consequently, there is no specific mecessity for admitting a
reinforcement of the Hindu-influence between P’o-li and the ninth
century, but on the other hand, it is as much clear that the
Hinduism in this mixed society had not lost in vigour, and the
possibility of fresh infusion is at least not improbable.

In Sumatra, the lacuna is the shortest; we recorded that the
last embassy of Kan-t’o-li dates from 563 and already in 644 there
are fresh Chinese notices which are not, for the time being,
interrupted, It is noteworthy however that the name Kan-voli
has disappeared ; it reappears for the first time long afterwards in
connection with a statement not earlier than the fourteenth century,
recording that the-then Stivijaya (Palembang) was the former
Kan-t’oli. Meanwhile, the name Srivijaya itself is not yet certain
in 644, but at this time the name of Malayu is mentioned for the
first time. We shall presently revert to these data ; within the span
of these eighty years, there cannot, of course, be any question of
an interruption of the Hinduistic culture and social organisation,

Congr. Oost, Gen. (1929) pp. 8. OF the stotras found by that scholar in
Bali, che derivation is unknown; remarkable is moreover a grammatical treatise,
the Karckasamgraba, with a Balinese commentary, which names Pinioi, Cf,
Sanskrit Texts from Bali, Gackwad Oriental Series 67 (1933).

6
Google
42 The first Central-Javanese period

but important events have evidently occurred there and these have led
to a change of the political condition of the island.

And lastly, so far as Java is concerned, the gap which isnot covered
by dates occupies a much longer period. Parnavarman and Fab-hien
brought us in the beginning of the fifth century—also the last of the
embassies from Horlo-tan appeared in 452—and it is in 640 that
Java first reappears within the ken of the Chinese, During this
interval, there have evidently occurred great changes, the nature of
which we can only guess on the basis of the results. As in Sumatra,
there is a change in the name; we find for the first time a description
about the land Ho-ling, in which we immediately recognise Kaling,
Kalinga. The history of the T'ang-dynasty, written after 06,
mentions that Ho-ling is also known as Ché-p’o. Now it is interesting
to observe that while in other records of this period there is always a
reference to Ho-ling, the last embassies, those from the ninth century,
are precisely said to have come from Chié.p’o. The latter name
remains in vogue as the usual designation of the island. So it appears,
concludes Pelliot, that in the closing period of the T'ang-
dynasty, the Chinese again began to designate the land with the
name which they had already given it in the fifth century.

As appears from above, it does not yet seem to be certain to us,
whether that other Ché-p’o, Java, was actually situated on the island
of Java, but the remark does not thereby lose its significance. Its
purport is consequently this, that in the data of the seventh and the
eighth centuries che Javanese kingdom was known as Kaling, and
that in che ninth century the name Java was applied to Java, either
as an old name of the same island which was again taken up, of as a
name which formerly belonged to elsewhere, but was now applied to
Java? In any case, since the ninth century the name with a palata-

1 Dil, p. 287.

2 According to Moens, Tijdsch. Bar. Gen. 77 (1937) pp. 348-414 the
first Ché-p’o or Ho-ling was situated on the Malay Peninsula, The same author
discusses the place of Po-li, first (6th century,) to be sought in Sumatra, after-
wards (7th century) in Central Java,

Google
The first Central-Javanese period 43

lized initial sound is usual for the island Java, next to that of the
formerly employed one with Y.

OE greater importance than the change of the name is the shifting
of the centre of the kingdom which must have occurred during the
two centuries, The data on Ho-ling and Ché-p’o refer, as appears from
the context, to the same Javanese kingdom that is known to us during
the time of the T’ang-dynasty from inscriptions and monuments of
the island itself, and which was no longer established in West-Java,
but in Central Java. Moreover, with regard to this transference, there
remains another uncertainty, because we know very well that Pirna-
varman’s Taruma lay in West-Java and the kingdom of Kaling in
Central Java, but we do not know the exact situation of Ho-lo-tan.
Although the contemporaneity of the dates of its embassies with the
script-form of Pirnavarman possibly brings both to be placed in the
same West-Java, there is still the possibility that in the same years as the
West-Javanese Taruma there was a Central-Javanese Ho-lo-tan—also
Fah-hien could have been, after all, in Central Java and not in West-
Java—and that Kaling is to be viewed as the continuation of that Ho-
lo-tan, Yet, a difference in cultural respect, whether with West-Java
or with an earlier Central Java, is not to be doubted. In this period
there appear the oldest monuments, the first specitens of the Hindu-
Javanese art. As we have already observed, nothing of that nature
has emained from previous times; it is presumably the result of the
fact chat at that time exclusively wood-buildings were in use. There
is nothing surprising in this. The colonist, whose compatriots in the
mother-country lived in loamy and wooden houses (and, for.the
greatest part, this they do even now in the villages), came in the
midst of an Indonesian population who were housed in a similar
manner; as for himself, he thus remained satisfied with a dwelling of
undurable material and it was, in the main, the same with the dwelling
places for the gods; the village-sanctuaries in India are extremely
primitive even up to this day, and in the time of colonisation stone
temples for the mightier deities of the community did not exist even
in India or, at least, they existed in a very modest scale. The same
phenomenon occurred for long ages inthe colonies including Java, and
for that reason, no vestige remains from old art or old monuments. But

Google
44 The first Central-Javanese period

now, there comes in a change towards the seventh century, both in the
mother country and in the overseas-colonies; the stone-buildings for
sanctuaries become generally prevalent. The phenomenon in Java
does not at all stand by itself; in further India also, we pass off, after
the Indian example, to stone monuments just in this time.*

Now, in our opinion, one thing is clear: that such a thing is
incomprehensible without a close contact with the mother-country
and a strong Hindu-preponderance in cultural respects. In these
centuries, the navigation was certainly not on the wane; the Arabians
came more easternly than they had previously done, the Chinese also
proceeded to take part in the forcign-trade*; and ships “from all
lands” penetrated in the beginning of the sixth century* even into
the seas which washed Campa. We shall presently notice, in the
course of the seventh century, the emergence of Srivijaya on account
of its excellent position on the great trade-route between the west and
the east. Consequently we can visualise a decidedly much more lively
intercourse than that which occutred, for example, when Fab-hien
experienced such difficulty in facilities for journey by sea; nevertheless
that intercourse had been sustained for long ages and was increasing
rather than declining, and yet we perceived the Hinduistic lands of
Java and Sumatra standing by themselves and pursuing an individual
course without taking direct and immediate part in the culeural
movements of the mother land, That is why scholars have thought

of ascribing the very mighty Hindu-influence which promoted the
Hindu-Javanese culture of Central Java since the seventh century—ie is
Brandes who first formulated this view clearly*—to a specific reason,
and that is a fresh immigration of Hindu-colonists,

We have no proofs for it and it is always possible that at some

1 Pormentier, Les sculptures chames au musée de Taurane (1922) pp.
10-15 and more elaborately in Origines communes des architectures bindones
dans Vinde et en Extréme-Orient, Etudes asiatiques (1925) Il pp. 199-241,

2 Hornell in Mem. As, Soc, Bengal 7 (1920) pp. 199ff.

3 Ferrand, J. As, 11: 13 (1919) p. 461.

4 Inthe article “Oudheden” in the first edition of the Encycl, v. Ned.
Indie,

Google
The first Central-Javanese period 45

other time a different explanation for this strong Hindu-influence will
appear to be more convincing; but so long as that is not the case,
the supposition of such a new influx appears indeed to. be the most
probable one. Again, these colonists need not be viewed as so many
individuals, bue they must be culture-bearers par excellence, people,
from whom, in a spititual sense, great power emanates. Political
potentates must certainly not be thought of; for that, the organisation in
Java as well as in Further-India remains in all respects much too
“native.” Nevertheless, a spiritual revolution in the colonies them-
selves could have again led to a political change and, with that, to
new states and new names. Meanwhile, the main thing appears to be
the inflow of conceptions and ideas of the mother-land, of which one of
the symptoms, the transition to the stone-temple, eloquently speaks to
the posterity, This inflow of ideas has also found expression in other
respects; it is much more faintly perceptible to us, but to the contem-
potaties it was perhaps more obvious than the monument-constructions.
Ac the end of this chapter, we shall examine somewhat more closely
a few aspects of this oldest Central-Javanese culture.

A shore while ago, we have mentioned 640 2s the year in which
the T’ang-history seems again to know of Java; itis possible however
that there is yet a solitary earlier information which we ought to. men-
tion, although we can detive little benefit from it, It is again Pelliot
who drew attention to the reference of a land Tu-po in the time of
the Sui-dynasty (589-618), and since tw is frequently confused with
ché, this land should again refer to Java; but the above-mentioned
scholar himself thinks that this Tu-po has unjustifiably been brought
under the Sui and that in reality it belongs, in the form Tchu-po, to
the chird century; it has therefore all chance of being Ché-p’o." Conse-
quently, this information cannot yet reduce the gap. It is no more of
importance, if, among the lands, which the celebrated pilgrim Hiien-
sang (who himself was not in the Archipelago) knew in the first half
of the seventh century as kingdoms of the East in which Buddhism
was followed? chere occurs the name Yen-mo-na, long transcribed as

1 Did, p. 275-278,
2 Mémoires sur les contrées occidentales, te. St. Julien, Il (1872) p, 83; ot

Google
46 The first Central-Javanese period

Yavana(dvipa), which may rightly be interpreted as Yavadvipa.’ Ie
would only prove that in the earliest times of Kaling, the name Yava
was the usual expression for Java in foreign lands.

Now, there are directly two questions which present themselves
to us in connexion with che supposed events occurring during this
lacuna: what was the relation of this new Central Javanese kingdom
with the old West-Javanese one? And were there also circumstances in
India which provoked fresh immigration of the Hindus to the colonies
of the East, an immigration which must have then differed from that
of the oldest colonists, because, those who sought a new abode in
foreign country were not new traders in pursuit of trade objectives:
they were people, who, unwanted in the father-land for some reasons,
went to settle in places where they expected a favourable reception in
an existing Hinduized environment.

The first question naturally involves, if the course of events was
such that the WestJavanese Hindu-colony after a course of time
went into ruin or fell into obscurity in the selisame manner
as can be supposed for that in Kutei, while later on, withoue
any connexion with the preceding West-Javanese settlement, a new,
colonisation led to better results in Central-Java; ot if Kaling is to be
viewed as the continuation of Tacuma, and metely for an indiscernible
reason the centre of authority and culture was shifted from the
West to the middle of the island, perhaps on the occasion of a new
culture-stream which brought in a welcome reinforcement from the
mother-land,

For an answer in the first-mentioned sense we may refer, beside
the analogy with Borneo, the circumstance that what is found in
later times in West-Java does not at all appear to stand on its own
leg, but isto be considered in close connexion with the Central-
Javanese culture. The material is not sufficient and we can even
doube, whether Central-Java exerted a direct cultural influence here,

for if the resemblance has to be explained from the connexion of Central

Si-yu-ki, ee, Beal (1884) Il, p. 2c0; Watters, On Yuan Chwang's travels IL

(1905) p. 187.
1 Dl. pp. 278ff, and Finot in JRAS, 1920, pp. 4478.

Google
You

he

The first Central-lavanese period 47

Java with Sumatra on the one hand, and the explicitly stated authority
of Sumatra over West-Java on the other. There does not appear to be
anything distinctively and specially West-Javanese, at least prior to
the new efflorescence in the Majapahit period, and it may be inferred
from this that the old pre-Central-Javanese culture of the West of the
island was entirely obliterated.

That the Chinese, when they make mention of Kaling after the
oldest notices, recount nothing of a transition or change and, with
regard to that, there appears to be a continuity between the eatlier and
later state of affairs, is an argumentum ex silentio; we now pitch its
value less high than it was previously the case, Taken all together,
there’ is however the gap of acouple of centuries and the history-
writers of the T’ang-dynasty begin with something new. By the side
of it, there is however an epigraphic datum, whose importance we have
to judge at present: it is the inscription on the rock of Tuk Mas in
Mr. Métbabu,*

The name shows that it is to be found in Central-Java, and its
location on the face of a rock also guarantees that it has always been
there and was not brought from elsewhere. The contents suggest
too little by themselves, because we read there only an encomium on
the cold fountain springing up here and flowing forth, purifying as the
Ganges. The remarkableness specially consists in the objects which
are engraved above the one-line writing and in the script of the
inscription itself.

The objects are manifestly emblems, not all to be recognised, as
the majority are indeed; disc and conch-shell, pince-scissors, kudw,
bowie-knife, staff, trident, water-jar, axe, and lotus-rosette seem to
appeat there; the majority are therefore objects which are u.ually
employed for religious service; they are partly divine attributes, partly
objects belonging to earthly ascetics. We can think of a hermit in
pious seclusion near this sacred fountain or think, in a general way,
of a place of religious worship; in any case, these emblems contain
the oldest indications of the Hindu-Javanese worship, and the nature

1 Keru, VG VIL (1917) pp. 199-2045 Inl. I, 165, Chhabra p. op. cit, pp.
338.

Google
48 The first Central-lavanese period

of the portraits seems to show that in this case we have actually to
reckon with Saivism.

Regarding the question with which we are occupied at present,
the great importance of the inscription consists in the character of the
script which is a Pallava-types according to its forms, it should be
placed after the West-Javanese specimen, but before the Pallava-
inscription which we shall presently find at Canggal as the oldest
dated inscription of Java (732). The main thing is now to assign
the script of Tuk Mas its precise position by a more exact dating
and by determining whether it can be considered as a continuation
of the Piirnavarman-script.

The briefness of the inscription and the absence of a number of
test-letters make the dating difficult; for similarity with Parnavarman-
letters, Kern placed the script in +500, while the present
writer, by comparing it with Canggal, referred it to one and a half
century later. With full recognition of all difficulties which render
a fixed conclusion impossible, we think that on ground of the
new-fashioned forms like and bh, this inscription may not be
brought too near the West-Javanese ones; at the same time &
and 1, by differing from Canggal and remaining in an old-
fashioned way, cannot be included under too late a date. Since there
ate also letters which, in contradistinction to the later Central-Javanese
form, ate affiliated to the West-Javanese, e.g., s and g we should be
inclined to draw the inference that the script of Tuk Mas can either
be from the time of our lacuna or from that of the oldest T’ang-
informations on Central-Java (thus +650); moreover, by its modest
preservation of the West-Javanese forms, it surely indicates to be
remote from Purnavarman, but still to stand in connexion with that
script. In other words, if this view be correct the insctiption of Tuk
Mas should offer an indication of the continuity between West and
Central Java; but, on the other hand, we should not lose sight of the
fact chat the script has not remained the same even in the mother-
land, and later colonists from India might have brought with them
later types of script,

1 Not, Bat. Gen, 1910 p. 77.

Google
The first Central-Javanese period 49

Nevertheless, although Kaling may be said to be the continuation
of Taruma in a certain sense, in cultural historical respect we observe
much more modifications than can be said of a simple transference and
this brought us to the acceptance of Brandes’ notion of a new influx.
Te is tempting, but hazardous, to look for the cause of the fresh
emigration into the political circumstances of India, the more
tempting, because we can learn at the same time something about the
regions from which the new colonists hailed. The commotion, which
was an-after-effect of the disruption of Harsa’s kingdom and which
perhaps promoted the flourishing of Sumatra, sets in a bit too late for
Java; but already was Kaliiga, Harsa’s Eastern neighbour, depopula-
ted and impoverished by his campaigns' and this may be significant
from the view-point of an eventual emigration, the mote so, because

the new kingdom in Java bore just the same name as Kaling.

Nevertheless, we should immediately recall the circumstance that
from nothing appears that the Javans themselves designated their
land so; it was only the Chinese who expressed it with the designation
Horling, but then it need not signify anything more than that they
found there a “Hindu"sland, because the term “Kaling” is used in
a much broader sense than alone for what is derived from the region
of Kalifiga; we can compare it with the modern parlance in the Archi-
pelago, where every Indian, without further enquiry into the otigin,
is called a Kling, It is obvious that such an use of the language does
not otiginate by accident, and, in truth, the people of Kaliiga had had
a great share in the trade with, and in the spread of Indian culture in,
the far East. Nevertheless, just on account of the spread of the term,
it remains very well possible that the Chinese, after finding the
Kaliiga-people elsewhere as the representatives of the Hindu-element,

1 This is referred to by Stutterheim, Rama-legenden und Rame-reliefs in
Indonesien (1924) p. 213, See now Banerji, History of Orissa (1930) p. 93-108.

2 In fact, Ptolemy also places (VII, 1, 16) in this vicinity the aphetéri
from this place the ships for Chrys Chersonésos left off the coast and fell into
the open sea; in the neighbourhood lay the famous City of the Tooth, described
by him with the Tamil-name Paloura, but better known as the Dantapura of
Buddhist traditions, See Lévi in Journ, As, 206 (1924) pp. 46-57, and cf.
Nogel, De cosmopolitische betechenis van bet Buddbisme (1931) p. 5.

7

Google
5° The first Central-lavanese period

have, on meeting a similar culture in Java, also spoken of “Kaling”,
without considering whether these Hindus had come, in a narrower
sense, from Kalifiga. This latter region comprised the present Orissa
and Ganjam, probably with Vizagapatam; an older Kaliiga, called
Kalliga by Prolemy (VII, I, 93), must have been situated a little more
to the South, between the Kistna and the Godavari.’

The inscription of Canggal will presently refer us to the extreme
south of India, and events of importance have occurred precisely there
towards the end of the sixth century. As appears from the Mahakita-
pillar of 601, the western Calukya king Kirtivarman I, older brother
and predecessor of the king reigning in the above-mentioned year, de-
feated, among other enemies, also the kings of Pandya, Dramila,
Coliya.? We have thus to imagine these campaigns in those regions
wherefrom emigration took place; this occurred at a time when such
an emigration would lead to an advanced spiritual life in Java per-
ceptible only in the first half of the seventh century. Without over-
estimating the value of such data we may yet state that they may
very conveniently be associated with the second stream of Hinduism
into Java. Now, when we find the king of Kaliiga in the same
series of overthrown kings, we ask ourselves, whether under the
pressure of military exploits of that conqueror, people from both South-
India and Kalifiga could have migrated to foreign lands in order
to eke out a more peaceful existence in the tranquil colonies.

Be that as it may, we wish to leave aside the question whether
this new life really blossomed forth in the initial years of the seventh
century or if it was present long ago and merely the improved report
of the T’ang-dynasty, which was going to keep itself occupied more
with the foreign land, brings it relatively accidentally before our
eyes in about 640; whatever it may be, it is a fact that we get signs
of life in three places at one and the same tinte, in Java, Sumatra and
a third land which was called Dwa-pa-tan and lay to the east of
Kaling. Ie sent an embassy in 647, and then it is stated that the

1 Pargiter, Markandeya Purina, p. 334; Lévi, J. As, 203 (1923) p. 13.
2 Fleet in Indian Antiquary XIX (:890), pp. 17, 19.

Google
The first Central-Javanese period 51

customs of that place are almost the same as those of Kaling, that
rice ripens there once a month, that people write letters on patra
leaves, and that the dead are burnt on a funeral pyre with golden
ornaments, gold in the mouth, and all sorts of perfumes.’ These
particulars and the location to the east of Java favour an identification
with Bali; that this island, as we saw, was also known as P’oli, need
be no objection, because in a number of other cases double names for
lands, states and towns have been observed. It is also possible that
the kingdom lying to the east of Kaling, Central-Java, is no separate
island but represents East-Java, but then it is manifestly improbable
that such a place could go unnoted between a colonised Central-
Java and a colonised Bali.

Now, what is known to us of Kaling, to begin with the year
640? The usual ethnological particulars in the T’ang-history, noted
down after the end of that dynasty, thus in the tenth century, after
a number of embassies in the ninth had afforded them opportunities
of being abreast with Javanese conditions, have, in the main, all
chances of definitely referring to the last part of the T’ang-petiod,
and regarding some of them, this is even, as will appear, an ascertained
fact. This makes us doubt whether it is advisable to make use of the
other ones for the oldest part of the Central-Javanese history discussed
in this chapter. The old T’ang-history, which knows only the
name Horling (to which the improved new T’ang-history
adds as another designation Java), marrates* that the city-walls
were made of wood and that the king lived in a building of two
storeys covered with palm-leaf; there he had an ivory bench as
achair. Writing and some astronomy were known there; but what
was specially striking, the Javans did not make use of spoons oe chop-
sticks in eating, but took food with their fingers; their spirituous
liquor was made out of the flowers of the cocoa-palm,

In the middle of the seventh century, the land sent two embassies
to China, the first in 640 or 648, the second in 666; then it was

1 Notes p. 58.

2 Notes pp. x2ff. Regarding an astronomical difficulty in connexion with
the equation of Hosling with Java, see Pelliot, D.l. p. 2938.

3. Pelliot, D.l. p. 286.

Google
52 The first Central-Javanese perlod

again a century before any fresh contact in the official sense was made;
during this course of time the political condition in Java must have
changed. Somewhat later than the second embassy is the year, in
which a little story is narrated of an independent ruling Javanese
queen, the first one known to us. It statest that in the period 674-675,
the people of Holing elevated a woman to royal dignity; she was
called Si-mo and ruled with a strong hand; no body (other than the
owner) dared to pick up what fell down on the way. The king of
the Ta-che heard that and he sent a sack of gold to be laid down on
the way ; those who came along avoided that, and so it continued for
three yeats until the successor ‘to the throne, while passing by it,
touched the sack with the foot. Si-mo wished to behead him for
this offence, but on the intercession of the ministers she ordered his
feet to be cut off because these were guilty. Fresh protests of the
ministers were no more of any avail, and the punishment was cattied
out, as an example for all, When the Ta-che heard that, they were
frightened and dared not wage war against this queen.

We can leave aside this edifying story for what it is worth, as we
cannot ascertain if it has any factual basis; such punitive measures
against an innocent one do not precisely appear to be the most effec-
tive method of scaring away foreign invaders! That such a definite
year is named for the accession of the queen awakens, by itself, some
faith in the correctness of this information; from later time also,
satisfactory examples of queens are known to render this female-
administration by no means improbable and consequently we are
inclined to accept the appearance of Si-mo as queen in 674. Remark-
able is the idea that the people of the kingdom raised her to royal
dignity; pethaps this is only a manner of speaking, to which no
further value has to be attached, but otherwise it seems
more to be an assignation of the headship of the tribe than
a succession of an Indian royal family, Ta-che is the Chinese name
for the Arabians? and so it has been asked what they had exactly to do

1 Notes p. 14 and Pelliot p. 297. We follow the latter, whose translation
is more correct (thus Duyvendak in thesis X in his dissertation (1928).

2 Groeneveldt, op. cit.,.p. 14. Regarding the form Ta-che, see also Ferrand,
1. As 204 (1924) p- 242,

Google
The first Central-Javanese period 53

with the state of affairs in Java; hence it is suggested, but least proved
or even made probable, that these Arabians are not to be thought of
in their father-land, but in an Arabic settlement in Sumatra’s West-
coast.

It is at this very time that the Chinese pilgrims touched Java in
their journeys to and from the holy land of Buddhism, at least we heat
that for the first time in this period through the statements in I-tsing's
Memoir written towards the close of the same century. The first
pilgtim, of whom mention has been made, came there, even as Fah-
hien did good two centuries ago, only by accident, through storm,
but the next, master Hwui-ning, went there on purpose, in
664/5, and even remained there for three long years, and others
followed; one of them passed there one summer, but then fell sick and
died!

Now, Java is so situated that though it is not far off from the
great trade-route between China and India, yet it does not lie in the
proper course; so it is not surprising, admitting the presence of a
civilised ie. a Hinduized land, that the Chinese halted there now and
again, but not so much as in Sumatra, which they had to pass in any
case, For that reason, it is of so much importance that the biography
of the previously-mentioned Hwui-ning informs us that Ho-ling was
also something more than a mere passing-station, What has the master
done there three years? Fortunately, L-tsing informs us in detail.*
Hwui-ning worked there in collaboration with a learned clergyman of
Horling, named Joh-na-poh-t’o-lo, which corresponds to the Sanskrit
name Jéiinabhadra, With him he translated from the Agama-texts
the Nirvana of Buddha and the burning of his body; this text presents
great variations from the Nirvana of Mabayina. When he had
finished his translation, he charged a youthful clergyman, Yun-k'i,
to take it to China, to which he consented, Afterwards, Yun-k'i
returned to Java to thank Jéainabhadra and to join again with Hwui-
ning, but the last-mentioned person had at that time already gone

1 Mémoire, p. 53,60, 100, 158, 190. and cf. BEFEO, 33 (1932) pp.
220-227.
2 Op. cits pp, 60-62

Google
54 The first Central-Javanese period

towards the West, where his trace could no more be followed up by
Tsing.

This passage deserves to be examined a little more closely,
because we find here Java all at once in an entirely different light,
asa centre of Buddhistic scholarship. It is under the direction of
the Javanese Buddhist that the translation of the text took place,
and another Chinese disciple stood prepared to carry it away after.
wards: thus there is manifestly a circle of followers who devoted
themselves to study here. That the study was concerned with
Hinaydna is clear from the wordings of L-tsing who, in a following
passage, expounds more precisely the difference between the translated
text and the Mahiydnistic one; it has also been remarked? that the
work in question was here classed with the agama, i. e., the first class
of Hinayanistic sitras; one will find it in the present Tripitaka-
catalogue under the fifth class of Mabayanistic sitras. The biographies
written under the Sung-dynasty confirm and define precisely the
statement that the translation of Jidnabhadra and Hw
the closing portion of the Nitvanasiitra which contains the story
of the burning of Buddha's corpse and the collection of relics,
and that there exist differences between that text and the Mabipari-
sitra. The Hinayanistic character of the-then Buddhism of the
Archipelago has been underlined expressly by the statement in I-tsing’s
other great work,? that on che islands of the Southern ocean; here
reference has been made to Ho-ling also, where Hinayina was followed
in the main (about an exception we shall speak presently), but that
pertained almost exclusively to the school of the Milasarvastivadins.
In this connexion we may also refer to the popularity in the selfsame
islands, not less chan in India herself, of Afvaghosa's Buddbacarite.”
We can consequently presume that duting the supremacy of the Hina-
yina, previous to the victory of the Javanese Mahayana which is so
much better known to us, the history of Buddha was read and sung

1 Chavannes p. 61, See also Hobogirin, fase. ann. (1931) no. 377 and

pp. 1460.
2 Record pp. roff.

3 Record pp. s65ft.

Google
The first Central-lavanese period 55

in the form of that famous poem; a gracious fate has handed it down
to us and it has always, even as in I-tsing’s days, ‘delighted the
heare of the reader, so that he shall never feel wearied by
reading.”

The said Sung-biography also narrates something else which is of
impottance and it is this, chat Jitanabhadra hailed from Java; he was
consequently a son of the soil and not an Indian who had settled there
for certain reasons. The study of Buddhism was thus made by the Javans
themselves and among them there were persons who had raised them-
selves to celebrity, to which the descriptions about Jiianabhadra bear
testimony. It was under his guidance that Yun-k’i received ordina-
tion, Now, it is evident that such scholars knew Sanskrit, but it was

not, of course, the common colloquial language. It is not therefore
surprising hae it has been stated of such Chinese pilgrims that they
excellently understood, besides Sanskrit, also the native language.
The mentioning of this fact in connexion with their studies makes it
plausible that something more has been meant by it than that they
could decently make themselves understood in their new surround-
ings: it seems indeed that their study was actually facilitated
through this knowledge, in other words, that language, the mother-
tongue of the native-savants, played a role in instructions and in
translations from Sanskrit into Chinese.

That the native language must have thus been equal to the task
is a remarkable fact, because it refers to a time from which no record
of the language bas yet come down tous. A second remarkable
thing is the name of the native-language which is designated Kw’un-lun
by the Chinese, and that was current in Java as well as in Sumatra;
it is consequently a general designation of what was spoken in the
Hinduized islands, an indigenous Indonesian with strong admixture of
Sansktit-words, That the Chinese use one name does not prove that
there was one and the same language everywhere; the few Sumatran
inscriptions from about I-tsing’s time also clearly demonstrate that Old-
Malay is something different from Old-Javanese. But from the use of
that one name it appears indeed that the character of what the Chinese
heard spoken in different islands was the same, and for that reason
they could see there che regional forms of one kind of language. This

Google
56 The first Central-Javanese period

view may be explained by the fact that the Chinese everywhere
recognised the similar and through their study well-known Sanskrit
elements. ;

Ferrand has devoted the atticle cited previously to the signification
of Kw'un-lun (K’ouen-louen is the usual French transcription). He finds
that the term is applicable, besides some islands of the Archipelago,
to P, Kondor, Campa, Cambodge, Burma, the Malay peninsula, tracts
of Souch China, Madagascar and the opposite-lying African East-coast.*
cis difficult to make out, what in all these terms may be the tertium
comparationis, but it seems that the Chinese came everywhere in
these places across a civilisation which was akin to what we shall, for
the sake of brevity, call Indonesian culture and which has not become
irrecognizable through other elements. What was common in it was
considered by che Chinese spectators to be essential in spite of the
gradations in mixture with dissimilar elements. In connexion with
what we have just now said about the Old-Javanese asa “scientific”
language, a fine parallel is to be found in an account on Campi from
about the selfsame time; when a Chinese general captured the capital
of the kingdom in 605. he took away as booty no less than 1350
Buddhistic works in Kw’un-lun-script.? Although it is possible that
Sanskrit works were reproduced in the native script, it is yet
very probable thatthe native language? had also to perform here a similar
task as was the case in the Java of Jéanabhadra,

Now, regarding the name Kw’un-lun which is also of such impor-
tance for the Archipelago, we may perhaps draw attention to the fact
that it also appears in other places than only on those referred to by
Ferrand, viz.’ as the name of a mountain-range in India, which plays
acertain réle in the history of the Achats, among others, ina text
already translated into Chinese before 220. If this be the Malaya-

1 Résumé on p. 332ff.

2 Chavannes in BEFEO 3 (1903) pp. 438; Ferrand, pp. 24a.

3 According to Pelliot, D.l, p. 221 perhaps Mén; Blagden in JAAS, 1928,
P+ 915, holds it to be Cam,

4 De Visser, The Arbats in China and Japan (1933) p. 25.

Google
The first Central-lavanese period 57

range, which is so famous in the Buddhistic literature? then we can
hold Kw’un-lun for a translation of Malaya, and can say that.the
Chinese have come across a sort of Malay (this term is then taken in
a very broad and general sense) in all the regions summed-up above.*

We have already said that the pilgrims who travelled or returned
from China to India did not come, in the first place, to Java, but that
the other great island, Sumatra, lay much more in their route. They
could follow a Northern or a Southern course. In the first case,
teckoned from the West, the Malay peninsula was touched first;
there we soon find Kédah developing as an important harbour; we
may recollect from the oldest epigraphic data discussed in the previous
chapter that the navigation had evidently been directed, as is indeed
obvious, cowards these regions for long ages. Thereafter, one passed
through the strait of Malacca and then, before undertaking the
Jong and perilous journey through the Chinese Sea, one could call at
a port of South-East-Sumatra. On the other hand, if one pursued
the Southern route through the strait of Sunda, then he must, after
passing this, immediately curn Norchwards, thus leave off Java aside,
but come once again for a last anchorage and for a refreshment-place
duly in a South-East Sumatran port. These ports were consequently
imporeant points for both the routes and were mote ot less in use in
various times or seasons; situated in about the middle of the entire
route, they consticuted the natural resting points and were in chem-
selves the best transhipping and trading ports in those cases where
only a part, and not the entire course between India and China, had
to be covered.

We come to leatn of one of these ports in an account from 644
(or the beginning of 645), when, as the Ts'eb-fu-yen-kwei states,
the kingdom Molo-yeu despatched an ambassador to present the
produce of the land.? Similarly, to the seventh century must also
belong the grouping-up of a number of Southern kingdoms, to wit

1 Cf. Pelliot, Dl, p, 359 and Takakusu, Record, p. 11,

2 That the later Malayu is connected with the South.Indian Malaya is
already the opinion of Yule-Burnell, Hobson-Jobson (1886) p. 416.

3, Pelliot, Dil. p. 324,

8

Google
58 The first Central-Javanese period

Kindi-p'iche, by which Cherli-fo-che (see below) is perhaps meant,
then some kingdoms not yet localised—among others, Mo-ho-sin, to
which we shall return—and lastly the kingdoms of To-lang, P’o-
hwang, Mo-lo-che, Kamboja and Campi." Mo-lo-che is, of course,
Mo-lo-yeu, and the Indian equivalent is Malayu. The same Malayu
was visited by one of the pilgrims, whose career I-tsing has described
and who came there while travelling from Java to Middle-India*.
Ltsing’s own travel (co which we shall presently revert) also makes it
clear that this kingdom must have been situated in Sumatra, This
brought Ferrand to assume that the preceding names, about which
Pelliot had already supposed that they perhaps rendered only one
To-lang-p'o-hwang, should be understood as Tulangbawang. So far
as the sounds are concerned, they agree splendidly well, and as the
situation of the basin of the river in the Lampongs, still known as
such, agrees also, there is no reason why the identification should be
unjust, Nevertheless, it deserves to be kept in the eye that the
Chinese name does not any further appeat elsewhere; so that identi-
fication cannot be supported or weakened by any other passage. If
the above explanation be correct, the upshot is the existence in the
seventh century of a kingdom in the Lampongs, whose name is pre-
served in a present river, but otherwise nothing is known of that
kingdom.

The rapid disappearance of this state in course of the seventh
century or a little later is not at all inexplicable; it should then
have shared the fate of Malayu itself, which, after this century, also
remained obscure for a considerable time in consequence of the loss
of its political independence. Now, where did this Malayu exactly
lie? For long years, various kinds of conjectures were projected on
it,* but it would be of no use to give a survey of them, because they
have been covered by later research. That the situation of Malayu
is now as much fixed as is possible under similar circumstances is

1 Ibid., pp. 324-326, and on both the places Ferrand, J. 4s, 11: 9 (1928),
pp. 918.

2 Mémoire pp. 426.

3 Regarding it reference may be made to Pelliot, D.l. ppe 326-333 and
Gerini, Researches, pp. 528-539.

Google
The first Central-lavanese period 59

mainly due to the contributions of Rouffaer, who, brushing up old
arguments and adding new and very forceful ones thereto, has demons-
tated. with great probability? that Malayu is the old Jambi. Referr-
ing to Rouffaer’s article for particulars and in order not to reiterate
what has already been excellently expounded we deem that it may
here be sufficient to record our agreement with his conclusion, as
others have already done.* Only it should be noted chat the possibi-
lity of Malayu being Palembang is not being discountenanced by
some writers.

Only a shore time after Malayu, there appears in our records a
different kingdom which was destined to occupy a predominant
position not only in Sumatra, but during a great part of old
history, in the whole western half of the Archipelago, a kingdom
which became the foremost state of the whole Archipelago before
the expansion of the authority of Java, whose fame spread far and near
and which particularly arrests out attention as the first great’ maritime
power in the island-world. The texts speak of Che-li Fo-chie and
San Fo-ts'i (making no reference to further variants) and Groeneveldt
had already brought® the names in connexion with the place well-known
to the Arab seafarers somewhat later on as Sarbaza, as it was read
at that time, or Stibuza, as we render the name at present, in the
great dominion of the king of Zabej, now written as Zabag,
Thereupon Beal made the first explicit pronouncement* that this
oldest Che-li fo-che must have been situated by the tiver of Palembang.
It was however in 1918 when Coedés, who has assessed the various
data at their true worth, published’ his brilliant contribution on the

1 Bijdr, Kon, Inst. 77 (1921) pp. 11-19.

2 ¢. g., Ferrand, op. cit,

3, See Moens, op. cit., pp. 338-347 and the present author in Meded.
Kon, Akad. v. Wet, NW. R. 1. (1938) pp. 3977423+

4 Regarding the transcriptions see Aurousseau in BEFEO 23 (1923) pp.
47578.

5 Notes p. 62.

6 Verhand. Bat. Gen, 1886 p. V (cf. 1884 p. 21).

7 Le Royaume de Srivijaya, BEFEO, 18, No, 6 Coedés, Journ, Mal, Br.
R.A. S. 14, IML (1936) pp. 1-9. Perhaps am earlier Srivijaya in the Malay
Peninsula had existed; cf. Majumdar, Suvarnadvipa (1937) pp. 142ff. and

Google
60 The first Central-lavanese period

subject. He has convincingly demonstrated that this Sumatran king-
dom must have been the same as Stivijaya of indigenous and Indian
sources; he has, at the same time, distinctly ehrown light on the
great importance of the adventures of this kingdom—definitely
localised in Palembang—for the whole history of the Medieval Archi-
pelago. To Coedés certainly belongs the credit of clarifying our
insight into the course of the history ina special way. Later on,
Ferrand combined (see above), as far as possible, the data about this
kingdom in a continuous nexus, and thus a beginning was made
for writing the history of Srivijaya; as will appear in course of our
arguments, we take, with full recognition of his highly meritorious
work, the liberty to differ from him on some points of opinion.

That Srivijaya is the name of the kingdom even in the oldest
account is at present beyond all doubt; of it Che-li Fo-che is the
perfectly correct transcription, and San Fo-ts'i has all chance, with the
emendation of the first character, of precisely being the same name as
Che Fo-ts'i.t The flourishing of this Srivijaya, so soon after the earliest
data and so durable in result, may be due to a concerted action of
geographical, economic and political factors. We saw already that the
ports of South East Sumatra were predestined, onaccount of their
position in respect of the great sea-traffic, to play an important role as
refreshment and transhipment stations. In that respect they could more
and more tell to better advantage, because beside the Indian navigation
existing from olden times, there now appear on the scene Arabic sea-
farers who ventured themselves continually further to the East: in the
fourth century an Arabic colony is already pointed out in Canton*;
the importance of these ports became great especially because the
advent of the T’ang-dynasty brought in its train a great revival in
foreign intercourse, and along with it also the commercial intercourse
of China, From incidental notices it is to be concluded that the
domestic navigation of the Hinduized states of South-East-Asia also

‘Moens, op. cit, The Srivijaya of Palembang may have come in the place of
ancient Malayu (the present author in the atticle cited, p. 416 fn. 3).

x This is the opinion of Aurousseau, op. cit.

2 Hornell, Mem. As, Soc, Bengal 7 (1920) p. 199.

Google
The first Central-lavanese period 61

proceeded to participate in that intercourse.’ And it is entirely in
conformity with that increasing contact between East and West that
we find in 692 an embassy of a Calukya from Mysore at the Chinese
court, and in 720 the emperor of China granting investiture to the
king of Kafci in South-India,? although that was naturally only a for-
mality and it had probably some significance only in the eyes of
the Chinese themselves. Above we have already referred to the
circumstances that, after the disruption of Harsa’s kingdom in 647,
the new flourishing of South-India possibly also worked to the advan-
tage of Srivijaya.* It is obvious that the choice of a resting-point ot
refreshment-station in the part of the Archipelago under observation
was limited for the sea-farers, because there has to be, to a certain extent,
a cultural centre, that is to say a Hinduized society, and the place had
to satisfy a particular geographical demand, viz. a protected harbour, a
river-mouth for example, in any case a secure anchorage. As for the
rest, there is, by itself, no reason why one harbour would have pre-
ference over others and why the opposite shore (where later Singapore
would appeat) should not, under the circumstances, be preferred to
the Sumatran coast. Thus, the phenomenon would create rivalry
and perhaps lead to high-handed method for occupying for itself the
first place in the struggle. If one of the rivals wished to ensure a
monopoly for itself, then it must render the other harmless, or at
least possess the means to regulate the trade of others by using
its own discretion. Moreover, it must be sure of its own security,
so that surprise attacks from the interior may not take away its
support on the sea. It must, in the end, control commercial
intercourse in still greater a scale by exerting its influence on
the straits and on the opposite side of them; it must

1 We refer, amongst others, to the data noticed by Ferrand (J. ds, 11: 13,
1919, p. 461), that the great sea-ships of Cambodge came to China from
Western India, with a cargo of looking-glasses.

2 The passages in Pelliot, D.l., p. 359-

3, Thus in later years, even the Portuguese obtained on their request an
investiture from China as rulers of Malacca! See Notes p. 134.

4 On the other hand, Bosch in Tijdschr. Bat, Gen. 65 (1926) p. 554
considered this factor to be of little significance.

Google
62 The first Central-Javanese period

further try to bind the powers of those places (which, by a
shifting of the traffic could take up the réle of the subdued
Sumatran harbour-states) to its interests, either by force of arms or
by treaties. Of necessity, a commercial policy, as sketched here,
must always provoke deep concern for che rest of the Archipelago,
in so far as the traffic passed through the straits, and the establish-
ment of a supreme power ruling over the seas and the coasts must play
the réle of a maritime power.

Now, that is exactly what we see happening with Srivijaya. Even
from the meagre data available to us for the first centuries of its
existence, we see how it rendered the neighbouring states, the tivals
Malayu and Bangka, impotent, how it ensured for itself the requisite
internal peace by getting its supremacy acknowledged in the Upper-
Jambi and how it subsequently set its firm foot in the Malay
peninsula and entered into close relationship with Java, chus both
the regions which could be dangerous at the opposite side of the
great straits. With this a foundation is laid for the powerful
maritime dominion of “Maharaja” (an individual proper-name ot
further designation appeared superfluous) which the Arabians in
later centuries recognised as a great power in the Archipelago. We
shall now try to trace the first settling of those foundations.

For the first time, Srivijaya comes within our angle of vision
from the notice of the new T'ang-history, that it sent embassies
to China from the period 670-673 to the period 713-741. Specific
years for the first embassies are not given ; however, that they
must have occurred in any case in the last decade of the seventh
century is indicated by an edict of the Chinese emperor from 695,
by which it has been promulgated that certain quantity of provisions
must be given to the foreign ambassadors, viz., for six months to
those of South-India, North-India, Persia and the Arabians, for five
months to those of Stivijaya, Cambodge, Java (Ho-ling) and other
kingdoms, three months to those of Campi.’ Now the “other
kingdoms", as if of less significance, are not expressed by name, and
consequently there must have been some more states in the Archipelago

1 Pelliot, D.l. p. 334 f.

Google
The first Central-lavanese period 63

which maintained relationship with China, but from Sumatra
exclusively Srivijaya is named, and this kingdom was, in the eyes of
the Chinese, the foremost representative of that island.

Indeed, Malayu had at that moment already ceased as an
independent state. When I-tsing summed up the islands of the
Southern ocean where the Milasatvastivadanikaya was followed by
the Buddhists, he offered, beginning from the West, the following
series: Po-lu-shi, Malayu, which is now the land of Srivijaya,”
Mo-ho-sin, Ho-ling, and so forth, (also P’o-li, Bali is mentioned),
The first, P'olu-shi, is explained by Kern as Baros,? a most plausible
opinion when we pay attention to its location* and to the citcum-
stance that the name was probably already known to Ptolemy, and
in any case, corresponded to the Varusaka of the Matijuirimalakalpa
(see above). When the identification of Ho-ling as Kalinga,
Java, is right, che other places lie in between Baros and Java;
Mo-ho-sin was sought by Takakusu, without any ground, in
Banjérmasin and later on in Biliton,* while Rouffaer placed it in the
Southern point of the Malay peninsula;* this fits in with the
position in the series, and the mentioning of a kingdom in this
peninsula we can also hardly miss. It this view is reasonable, then
Malayu and Srivijaya are perforce the names which represent the East
and the South of Sumatra, What have we now to understand by
the expression that Malayu is at present the land of Srivijaya? Given
the fact that the two are geographically different places and that
Letsing, who, while he wrote this stayed in Sumatra and had
visited both the places, was completely well-abreast of the state of

1 Record p. 10

2 The same statement on Malayu also in Mémoire p. 119 (Rec. p. xxx);
the opinion that this statement was later on interpolated into the text has been
proved to be untenable,

3 VG VE Bp. 216, ef. Pelliot, D.l.pp. 340-342.

4 Also elsewhere itis said to lie to the west of Srivijaya (Mémoire p.
36ff,).

5 Record p. XLVII and chart,

6 Bijdr, p. 68. For other identifications of these places see Moens op. cit.

Google
64 The first Central-Javanese period

affairs, the obvious explanation is that with the expression precisely
the same thing has been intended as when one, so take a modern
parallel, would say that Hanover is at present Germany, As an
independent entity, Malayu existed no more ; it was absorbed into
the kingdom of Srivijaya.?

By this it is not of course said that Malayu disappeared; on the
contrary, not only the monk Wu-hing had travelled from Srivijaya
to Malayu,? but L-tsing himself, who had departed from Canton in
671, after studying grammar for six months in Srivijaya, repaired to
Malayu, and he remained there two months more.* When he again
returned from India, where he was for ten years associated with the
famous Buddhistic University of Niland, he again temporarily
settled down in Srivijaya, That was in 6853 after four years,
coming to the conclusion that he was not equal to the task of
copying and translating the holy texts, he repaired to Canton in 689
and came back to Srivijaya with four assistants, There he wrote
both the works, which have been translated by Chavannes and
Takakusu, his survey of the practice of Indian Buddhism, in
order to improve by it some errors which had crept into
Chinese Buddhism, and into his biographies of Chinese pilgrims
from his own time. He entrusted both the works in 692 to a
clergyman travelling to China; he himself turned back to his
fatherland in 695. From this biography* it can be deduced chat the
books were written between 689 and 692. If he had prepared
them before 689, he could have himself taken them with him.
What he narrated of the state of affairs in Srivijaya was consequently
written down on the spot between the above-mentioned years, and by
a person who had lived there in these years. The transference of
Malayu under the hegemony of Srivijaya consequently occurred, in
any case, before 692.

1 Another interpretation is that the capital of Srivijaya had been
transferred to the ancient Malayu,

2 Mémoire p. 144.

3 Mémoire p. 119.

4 Chavannes, Mémoire pp. IV-VIIL. Texts cited in Hobogirin fase, ann,
pe 136.

Google
The first Central-Javanese period 65

About the same time we notice the projection of influence in a
different direction, and that is towards Bangka. We are enlightened
about it by an inscription of that island itself, dating from 686, and
thus belonging to the group of the oldest dated inscriptions of the
Archipelago. In contradistinction to the Sanskrit records discussed
previously, it is composed in the nativelanguage. This language,
Indonesian with numerous Sanskeit words, represents, in its composi«
tion, great similarity with what we shall presently come actoss as
the oldest Old-Javanese; nevertheless it is yet cleatly distinguished
from it, because the Indonesian element bears a Malay, and not
Javanese character. One can thus designate this language as Old-Malay,
and see that although the languages possess sufficient general chatace
teristics in common to justify a description under one name by the
Chinese, they are nevertheless, each by itself, clearly distinguished,
The inscription is incised in ten lines of very beautiful Pallava-
script on a six-sided pillar, found in Kota Kapur on the Ménduk river
in West-Bangka,* on a kind of stone not available in that island. It
was explained, as far as possible, by Kern.? The beginning is, after
a wholly unintelligible formula, an invocation to the gods and other
higher beings (amongst others, pethaps water-spicits) who protect the
Kadatuan Stivijaya; in this expression, the Kadatwan can be explained
as “kingdom” (thus, Jav. &daton) but also as “region that stands
under a ditw (governor),” thus a province or dependency. A curse
is cast on those who are rebellious against persons who have been

1 In the neighbourhood an image of Visqu has been found; sce Stutterheim
Oudb, Versi. 1937 p. 31; Ind, Art. Lett. 11 (1937) p. 105 and Jaarb, Bat, Gen,
5 (1938) p. 116, pl. 1.

2 Kem, VG VII (1917) pp. 205-214; Coedés, p. 1; Ferrand, J. As, 11:14
(1919) pp. 149-155. The opinion of the last named scholar that Srivijaya
should be the name of a king and not of the kingdom appears untenable to us;
it is yet maintained in J. As, 11: 20 (1922) p. 170 and is again refuted by
Cocdés, BEFEO 23 (1923) pp. 471-474. At present, the last-mentioned scholar
has again edited and discussed the whole group of inscriptions, to which the
Bangka-stone belongs, in an article ‘Les inscriptions malaises de Srivijeye,?
BEFEO 30 (1930) pp. 29°80, See also Ferrand J. as, 221 (1932) pp. 271-326
aad Chhabra op. cit, pp. 28-31." For the language Haaksma, Ioleiding verw
vormen indon. Talen{(1933) pp. 26-28.

; Google
66 The first Central-Javanese period

installed as datw from Srivijaya; the submissive, on the other hand,
will participate in all. sorts of prosperity. The record as a whole
consequently signifies, as far as this, the imposition of submission on
the population in respect of the governors of Srivijaya,

Only the last line and a half we have so far left out of considera-
tion, and this precisely contains the important dating. It states that
on a definite date in 686 this curse-formula was incised, “at a point
of time when the army of Srivijaya undertook a campaign to the land
Java which was not subject to Srivijaya.” Of course one is tempted
to recognise in this Java the island Java and to conclude that already
in this early point of time Srivijaya came into an armed conflict with
Java. The reference to the expedition should then signify a warning
for Bangka. On the other hand, it can be remarked that some time
later on one finds the name Java just localised in the Sumatran part
of the Archipelago, and consequently the same is possible in the
Bangka-stone: Stivijaya, asa sign of its supremacy, got this procla-
mation to be engraved right in the centre of a part of this Java that
had been punished on account of disobedience.

The view that this stone isa proclamation of the supremacy of
Stivijaya over a land subjected to its authority is made all the more
admissible by the discovery of the same ptoclamation in a wholly
different region, on the upper-Mérangin.? A stone at Karang Brabi
contains, with only insignificant differences, also the curse-formula,
but without the dated end. Meanwhile, the type of script ensures a
similar antiquity. The promulgation of similarly-couched curse-
formulae in so far outlying regions, outside the centre of Srivijaya,
bear, in our opinion, entirely the character of an act of taking posses-
sion, what at present should be equivalent to the hoisting of the flag.
In 686, Srivijaya had not only commenced its policy of expansion,
but had even already been a good distance in the way: the rival
Malayu is rendered harmless, the tranquility from the domestic side
is ensured, the overseas Bangka is brought under control.

Srivijaya itself is not only the political, but also the scientific
‘centre, particularly in the domain of Buddhism. The clergymen who

1 Tijdscr. Bat. Gen, 59 (1921) pp. 435, 431, and Coedés, pp. 45-50.

Google
The first Central-Javanese period 67

passed by were received there with the greatest respect; but it-was
not simply a passing-station, men stayed there with pleasure and
studied for long years® and in that respect I-tsing is least an excep-
tion, Men studied there, first of all, the Sanskeit grammar, and
further applied themselves particularly to the translation of the sacted
texts into Chinese, if necessary, with the aid of the native language.
Ising himself brought with him no less than five hundred thousand
stanzas on Tripitake-texts from India, which he went to study in
Srivijaya, By che things mentioned, this city also became the central:
Point for text-explanation and research; it is then mo - wonder.
that, of the seven great. Masters under [+tsing’s contemporaries,
one was settled in Srivijaya. This scholar was Sakyakirti,
celebrated as the author of a work taken into the canon, the Hasta-
dandatastra, which was translated into Chinese in later years (711)
by L+sing himself.*

Such scholars did not scrupulously bind ehemselves to one patti-
cular school, but studied, as befit the scholars, the Buddhistic science
in its full range, admitting knowledge from what Hinayana and.
Mahayana aught and sought to ascertain the stand of the great philo-
sophical schools, That we also learn from elsewhere® and ‘T-tsing, who
besides gratefully acknowledging how much he owed to the personal
association with his teachers,* has emphasised this point with so many
words. That naturally the authoritative Mahayanistic texts were
studied appears moreover from the separate niention of the Yogacirya-
bbimisastra.’ Tantcic-Mahayna had been taught in che Atchielge
already before 655 by Punyodaya.?

1 Mémoire, p, 144. 2 Ibid., pp. 64, 159, 182, 187, 189. 3 Ibid p. 125,

4 Record p, 184, and Takakusu’s Introduction, p. Iiii ff. The pext- in
question is no, 1226 of Nanjio's Catalogue (App. 1, 54, p. 378). Habagirin
fasc, ann, no. 1656,

5 See e.g. Barabudur (1920) p. 763. One same school could, in one place,
adhere to Hinayna, in the other to Mahayana (Rec., p. XXII f.).

6 Record p. 184,

7 Mémoire p. 77. The (originally Hinayanistic) AbbidbarmakotaSastra
hhas, in the long run, secured general validity in all Buddhism,

8 See Lin Li-kouang in J, As. 227 (1935) p. 8E:

Google
68 The first Central-Javanese period

Nevertheless, Sumatra, the ‘Gold-island”, such as it is now
called, followed, as we already saw, like the rest of the
Archipelago, almost exclusively the Hinayanistic practice, with one
exception: in Malayu there were some who adhered to the Mahayana,”
Even though it be from a later source, we know that Dharmapala a
celebrated scholar of the Mahayana, taught in Sumatra.* This
Dharmapala, hailing from Kafci, after teaching for thirty years at the
Buddhistic university of Nalanda, repaired to Suvatnadvipa, which
gold-island in this notice is also most probably Sumatra. Dharmapala
passes off for a contemporary of Hiien-tsang, and should consequently
be the same person whom I-tsing designates as a contemporary of
Bhartghari who died in 651 /2;* in that case, his sojourn in the island
should precede that of I-tsing by about half a century. He is a
disciple of the famous Dignaga, the great Mahayanistic logician who,
in his turn, was a disciple of a person no less than Asafiga, the founder
of the philosophical school of the Yogaciryas. Now Dignaga must
have lived before the sixth century® and if this is correct, Dharmapala
must also therefore be placed earlier than the seventh or
considered to be merely a disciple in spirit, not in flesh, of
the logician; in any case, the foot-hold of che Mabiydna can
be brought in connexion with his activity in Sumatra and, in this way,
he could have gathered about himself some disciples, probably at
Malayu, Ie is remarkable that later in Javanese Mahayana, which is
so closely connected with the Sumatran, Digniga is again cited as an
authority in the domain of yoga.*

Te is here the place to record that the influence of a centre of
leatning like Nalanda, which was in continuous contact with the
Buddhistic world elsewhere, cannot certainly be estimated to> low.
We have here first of all to keep cycon the penetration of particular

1 Mémoire, pp. 181, 186.

2 Record p. 11, cf. Finot in BEFEO 20 (1920) p. 146

3 Taranitha, Gescbichte der Buddbismus in Indien (trans. Schicfner, 1867)
p: 161, Bosch doubts the story in Tijdschr. Bat. Gen, 65 (1926) p. 559-

4 Record p. 179.

5 Peri, BEFEO, 11 (1911) p. 387.

6 Sanghyang Kamabiyanikan (ed. Kats, 1910) p. 45,

Google
The first Central-Javanese period 69

conceptions of Buddhism; we saw already how catholic in spirie the
Buddhistic scientific men were and how readily they subjected all
creeds to tell to their full advantage, It is precisely for this reason
that we have to account for the swift propagation of the new dogmas
which were preached there: it is to be viewed as a natural upshot of
the influence of Nalanda, Above all things, the influence must have
been great on general cultural domain: the scholars and pilgrims
travelling hither and thither, the study of the Buddhists from all lands
in that centre, the coming over of those, who were there initiated into
the doctrines, to other regions where Buddhism lived, must have
created ample opportunity for diffusing far and wide various kinds of
usages and conceptions which governed at Nalanda, also in domains
other than religious, In so far as the Buddhistic lands were concerned,
Nalanda certainly deseeves to be viewed as one of the foremost points,
wherefrom, in the wake of Buddhism, waves of Hindu-culeure also
surged out elsewhere, notably towards the Archipelago.

In the field of religion itself, this broad conception, which the
learned men aspired after by penetrating into the docerines of all
schools, must make the more conscientious ones inclined to be not
sceptical about or inimical towards those thinking otherwise; and the
reversal from Hinayana to Mahayana which was so rapidly executed
in Java as well as in Sumatra is to be considered as a change which, in
reality, had certainly very little of che character of a religious revolu-
tion, as it would seem to us from a distance.’ It is certaisly wrong
to imagine both che yanas to be in keen opposition toeach otber: they
are bound with each other by numerous and exquisice tissues.”

In [+sing’s days the change must have, as will presently
appear, already commenced. We pause for a moment over what
he narrates about the Buddhism of Sumatra during his sojourn.
At Srivijaya itself, there were more than a thousand Buddhistic
priests whose study-method and manner of research fully agreed
with the Indian one, so also did the regulations and ceremonies

1 Onthe importance of Nalanda, see Bosch, op. cit. p. 528-563. Other
centres were founded at Samatata and Harikela.

2 Lévi-Chavannes, J, AS, xi:8 (1916) p. 28,

3. Record, p, xxxiv,

Google
7° The first Central-Javanese period

fully correspond; that is why it is so useful when Chinese priests,
who were willing to go to India, first prepared themselves here in
Sumatra for a yeat ot two. Of the four great sects, such as we saw,
principally the Miilasarvastivadanikiya was followed in the islands of
the Southern Ocean but some people also subscribed to the Sammiti-
nikiya, and lately there happened to be some disciples of both the
other schools (Mahasaighikanikaya and Sthaviranikaya). Questions
regatding the doctrine ot discipline were decided swiftly and in a few
lines. The similarity with India is also elsewhere put into the fore-
front, e. g. in the celebration of the Upavasathe-ceremonies;* on the
other hand, some solitary minor variations between the practices of
India and the Archipelago can also be noticed;* thus, the garb of the
nuns there is differene* and the monks carry a cloth for kneeling.
Incidentally particulars are mentioned also in the economic sphere;
the king of Srivijaya made the pilgrims travel in his own ships towards
India;* thus, these were manifestly native mercantile ships which were
efficient for foreign trade and could venture through the wide ocean.
Moreover there is frequent reference to gold," which is not
surprising for che gold-islands also other products, such as che camphor
of Baros, are mentioned.2® And chen, there is lastly an astronomical
notice which has entailed some amount of troubles: in the middle of
the eighth month and in the middle of the spring, the Sun-dial at
Stivijaya casts no shadow and men have no shadow at mid-day.t?
The fact that this statement, when understood literally, would bring
Srivijaya on the equator, thus a bie more Northern than Palembang,
cannot be left out of account; there is yet room for a somewhat less

literal. interpretation.'2

1 Record p. xxiv. 2 Rec, p, 10,
3 Rec. p. 16, 4 Rec. p. 35. cf. 112
5 Rec., p. 45 ff. In connexion with what has been said above we refer
to the occurrence of the Kalpavrksa in the festivities described here (p. 49).

6 Recs p79. 7 Rec. p. 111,
8 Rec., p, xxx, xivi. 9 Recap. 45, 46, 49-
10 Recap. 48. 1 Recy 143

12 Sce the note of Takakusu, op. cit., p. 143ff, and Kern in VG VI (1917)
p-235, According to the latter, the statement refers to the kingdom of

Google
The first Central-lavanese period 7

A couple of inscriptions from the neighbourhood of Palembang
itself offers an important amplification of our ‘knowledge of Stivijaya
from the end of the seventh century! Their’ script is almost the
Pallava-character of the Bangka-stone, a bit more new-fashioned,?
although the inscriptions chemselves are somewhat older: pethaps
the resule of the fact chat an innovation into the sctipt was sooner
employed in ehe metropolis than in the hinterland.

The former, of ten lines, on a rounded stone from Kédukan Bukie,
bears the year 683 and is therefore the oldest dated inscription of the
Archipelago. It contains the information that on a particular date in
that year the dapunte biyang, undoubtedly the king, went on board
a ship to acquire the magical power, siddbayétra, accompanied by a
great army, and in fact assured that supernatural power to Stivijaya,
Notall is clear,* but the great importance attached to this magical
procedure at once leaps into che eye, and that is quite in conformity
with the data known from elsewhere. That we should have here to
do with the consecration of a new capital for the kingdom Stivijaya
does not seem impossible; in any case, that a fact is mentioned
which was highly important for this state is certain.

Srivijaya, which indeed extended to the North of the equator. See also Moens
op. cit. ; this author distinguishes a former Srivijaya in the Malay Peninsula
from a later one on the river Kampar irs Sumatra, near the equator.

1 After a provisional review by Van Ronkel, Acta Orientalia 2 (1924) pp»
32-21, discussed by Coedés, op. cit, pp. 33-44.

2 This particularly appears in the form of the r. (Coedés, p. 60).

3 OF some words itis especially uncertain whether they are or are not
Proper names, thus Simbau (after Poerbatjaraka here translated with ship), and
the mysterious Minanga Tamwan, from which the king “dissociated” himself.
According to R, A, Kern Bijdr. Kon, Inst. 88 (1931) p, 510 £. Mindnga signifies
a fiver-mouth and a journey upwards the stream is meant, See also Coedés in
BEFEO. 33 (1936) pp. 1001-1007; Chhabra op. cit. pp. 19, 29; Nilakanta
Sastei in Journ, Gr. Ind. Soc. 4 (1937) pp, 128-136.

4 Cocdés pp. 37, 53. Also a fragment of a second inscription found
in Bangka contains the word jayasiddba (with something before and after it),
See Not, Bat, Gen, 1922, p. 103 and Coedés p. 59, . Recently at Télaya Batu
near Palembang Schnitger has discovered some thirty stones with (jaya)siddbae
yatras Invt, Arch, f. etbnols., Suppl. Band 35 (1937).

Google
92 The first Central-Javanese period

The second inscription, derived from Talang Tuwo, occupies forty
lines on a flat stone and is dated in 684. At that time, on command
of the king (pwnte hiyang) Sri Jayanaéa, the park Stiksetra was
laid out and H. M. took the vow (prenidhana) that all what was
planted there and set in order, and all other good works, should
come to the benefit of all living beings. After the happy conditions
in material respect to be achieved chrough this pious action follow
the achievements of spiritual nature viz. the awakening of the thought
on bodbi, not being separated from the three Jewels, the fulfilment
of conditions and the acquisition of attributes in a slow progres-
sion, co which belongs the possession of the diamond body, the
Vajrasarira, of the Mahasattva, led to the suppression of rebirths, the
suppression of Karman, the suppression of kleéas and the attainment
of the Highest Perfect Insight.

This vow, of which the terms are known from the Buddhistic liter-
ature,” and which extends to the welfare of all creatures, is of unusual
interest, because it entirely represents the Mahayana, and therewith
it is the oldest evidence for the existence of this school of thought in
South-East-Asia (Indonesia and Indo-China). Now the fact that
Ltsing mentions only a few Mahayanists in Malayu, while everywhere
else in the archipelago Hinayana was adhered to, is a strong argument
in favour of the view that old-Malayu was situated in Palembang, and
was succeeded in 683 by Srivijaya. In the second place, it is note-
worthy that, as appears from the Vejratarira of the inscription, here
wehave to do with the Tantric Buddhism, which showed itself openly
first in the middle of the seventh century and which must have thus
spread with unusual rapidity even outside India. This Tanerism otigi-
nated in Bengal from the school of the Yogicatyas, and its first teacher
stood at the head of the cloister at Nalanda, thus the selfsame region,
to which we shall, as will appear, be also directed for Javanese Maha-
yana, Now, since this last one is so much Tantric in tenor, resting

1 One should rather expect Jayaniga (Cocdés, p. 39). Stutterheim,
Ondbeden van Bali 1 (1929) p. 67, reads Jayawaga.

2 See Coedés, p. 43 and 54-575 particularly, the Bodbicittotpadana-
Sastra, ascribed to Vasubandhu, and Santideva’s Bodbicarydvatara come up for
consideration,

Google
The first Central-lavanese period 73

on the dogmas of the Yogicdryas, the probability of a connexion
between these phenomena is already exceptionally great and it is
certainly not hazardous to find in the Palembang inscription from 684
an indication of the way by which Tantric Mabiyana reached Java.
Also apart from that, the data which have been brought to light in
respect of the development of Buddhism in general are not to be
underestimated in significance.

In the beginning of the eighth century Srivijaya again saw a famous
traveller, Vajrabodhi, the South-Indian monk, who went to China
to introduce the Tantrism. In 717 he sailed from Ceylon with 35
Persian ships and his first halting-poine was Srivijaya, where the king
received him with the greatest respect and where the eminent man
was compelled to stay for five months due to hostile wind'. Among
his disciples was Amoghavajca himself, a great name in Tantric
Buddhism, of which he was destined to fix the dogma and ehsure the
triumph. When he returned from Canton in 741, he did so ina
“Malay” ship?

In the meantime, the embassies of Srivijaya regularly appeared at
the Chinese court in 702, in 716, and in 724 under the crown-
prince (Kiu-mo-lo=Kumira), presenting two dwarfs, a Seng-k’i-gitl,
and a number of parrots; in the same year, a high title was granted
to the king of Srivijaya, named Che-li-t'olo-pamo, in which Sti
Indravarman is suspected. Then again in 728 and in 742; the latter
embassy was again led by the son of the king, and the king himself

again received a couple of titles. For his name, Lieu-t’eng-wei-kong,
the equivalent has not been found*. In these notices, the Seng-k’i-
gitl especially arrests the attention; this word agrees with zanggi,
janggi, the usual designation for the Niggers in the Archipelago;
also in Old-Javanese inscriptions the joggi-staves are not unknown,
The question is only this : whether the Niggers or other persons
similar to them are really aimed at; but whether one thinks of the

1 Pelliot, D. 1. p. 336: Ferrand, J. ds. 204 (1924) p. 242.

2 Lévi-Chavannes, of. cit.. p. 4g; De Visser, Arbats (1923) p. 65.
3. All these informations collectively in Pel'iot, D.l. p. 334ff

10

Google
74 The first Central-lavanese period

New-Guinea Negeitos or of the inhabitants of East-Altica’, in both
the cases this notice is the oldest evidence that such trade-commodities
wete brought over from their remote home-land to the civilised part
of the Archipelago; that chey were still scarce is indicated both by
the fact chat they were deemed valuable to be presented to the Chinese
emperor and by the presence of only one such curlyhead in many
Barabudur-teliefs® from good half a century later.

That such a great part of this chapter is devoted to Srivijaya_may
indicate what an important position this kingdom occupied in the
Archipelago shortly after its existence. At present, we return again
to Java, where we find in 732 the oldest dated inscription of the
island,? the previously-mentioned inscription of Canggal in Kédu,
engraved on a stone in the Pallava-character resembling that from
later time, but still composed in Sanskrit and not in the native
language. On the plateau of the hill Wukir lie foundations and
images, originating from a Saivite sanctuary, and by the entrance
in the ring-wall which encircled this temple-zone the inscription was
setup.t It mentions,* first of all, that in 732 king Safjaya got a
linge erected on the hill, offers thereafter homage to Siva, Brahma
and Visgu, and then relates, in the seventh strophe (since it is entirely
composed in verses): “There was an excellent island, called Yava
excelling in grain and other seeds and rich in gold mines; it is taken
into possession by immortals (here follows a lacuna) ete, There is a
most glorious miraculous sanctuary of Sambhu (Siva) which for the
welfare of the world, was brought over, as it were, from the race
settled in the blessed land Kufijara-kudja”. Ie is further communicated
that a high-born king, named Sanna, after having overthrown his
enemies, reigned in this Java with righteousness and that, after his

1 Pelliot, D.l. p. 291; also Ferrand in J. As. op. cit, 241.

2 Barabudur, relief It B 33.

3. A copper-plate inscription in the muscum at Frankfurt on the Maine,
of a Sci Mahadevi, was thought to be from 715; provisional description of Bosch
in Oudb, Versl. 1929 p. 156; on closer examination it appears to be of later
date,

4 Inleiding 1, pp, 165-167.

5 Kern, VG VII (1917) pp. 115-128; Chhabra op. cit. pp. 34-37

Google
The first Central-Javanese period 8

death, che son(?) of Sannaha (evidently the full name of Sanna), king
Safjaya, proficient in the subtle idea of books, conqueror of the domain
of neighbouring kings, governed the kingdom. The record ends
with an eulogy on the all-pervading security.

First engaging ourselves with this last part, we observe that the
king being celebrated as a law-knower and conqueror is a common-
place expression in Indian royal edicts and encomiums and need not
involve actual conquests in ain extensive scale; but such a tirade does
not, of course, preclude real martial spirit of these kings. On Java's
richness in gold-mines, we spoke above already and saw at
that time that the question, if these were really there, is not even-
tually the principal one: this inscription proves conclusively that
Java, rightly or wrongly, passed for richness in gold-mines.

The principal ching of the record is, of course, what is said of
the erection of the lifige and of the Siva-sanctuary which was, as it
were, brought over from Kuijarakuija, Kern translated’, “brought
over from the “race”, as one calls it, established in the blessed land
Kuiijarakuijadesa”. One understands the difference; according to
the latter conception, a sanctuary was really brought over from the
mother-land, and by tracing a parallel between these data and those
about the Cambodian Devaraja-cule and aboue similar tradition in
Campa, Bosch comes to the conclusion? that, in all the cases, there
is a close connexion between Siva, his litiga, the reigning dynasty and
a prominent Brahman, It is the king who takes the place of Siva upon
the earth and the essence of his royal prowess is the litiga emblem;
the Brahman is the mediator who receives the ore-liiga of Siva and
presents it as a palladium to the founder of the dynasty, Who that
Brahman in Java was, we shall presently see, although he is not
especially named in the inscription of Canggal.

Now, although such traditions in Java are much less distinct than
those in Cam and Cambodian sources cited by Bosch, one can_never-

1 Op. cit. p. 122. Chhabra, Journ, Gr. Ind, Soc. 3 (1936) pp. 170:177 is
of opinion that in this passage only a comparison is indicated, Java was as
abounding in holy places like Ganigi and so forth as the blessed land of Kufja-

rakuija. See also Stutterheim, Tijdschr, Bat. Gen. 79 (1939) p- 73-82.
2 Tijdschr, Bat. Gen, 64 (1924) p. 236f., 2711.

Google
76 The first Central-Javanese period

theless admit in a general way the soundness of his arguments.
Meanwhile, the use of the word ive, ‘‘as it were”, in the Sanskrit
expression’, which cannot surely exclusively be a stop-gap, suggests,
not that a sanctuary was directly and entirely brought over to Java
from Kuijarakuiija, but that it was found again, as it were, in that
island: it is modelled thereon but is not the same. This miraculous
sanctuary does not appear to be that of the Wukir—then the poet
could have very well brought out the connexion—but was elsewhere
in Java and its special mention makes it admissible that it should
indeed be considered as a sort of palladium.

In any case, King Safjaya and his relations take their Siva-worship
back to that of Kuijarakufja, and with this starting-point of the
ancesttal worship is also furnished a starting-point for the advent of
the ancestors themselves. As the lineage is not carried higher than
the king’s father, one could think that it did not also go beyond, and
this father is the first of the Javanese dynasty, possibly a participant
in the new influx of the Hindus but on the other hand, the
Centeal Javanese Ho-ling, according to the Chinese had already existed
for long and would remain famous under the selfsame name. But,
whether it is to be dated earlier or later, Kufjarakufja offers us at last
a name, a clue for the origin of the immigrating Hindus and fotunate-
ly, doubt about the identity of chat region does not exist any more.*
Ie is a tract in Southern India, appeating as Kudjaradari, and in the
Brbatsembita (XIV: 16) it is mentioned between Kach and Tamra-
pani. Ic is just on the border of Travanccre and Tinnevelly that the
hill is situated, to which this region owes its celebrity, because there
on the Podiyam stood the cloister of the great Seer Agastya, who once
brought the Hindu-culture to Souchern India and is still considered to
have his dwelling-place there. It is therefore obvious that the Siva-
worship originating from there also included the adoration of Agastya;
so Agastya should be the Brahman who functioned in the royal in-

1 Srimathwiijarakwijadesanibitavamsad itivadbrtam, Chaabra’s reading is
Srimatkudjarakuijadesani,,.agiditirehavetam.

2 VG, op. cit., p. 112; Tijdscbr. Bat. Gen. 57 (1916) p. 425; Ind. Ant,
428 (1913) p. 194.

Google
—_—

The first Central-Javanese period 7

vestiture as the mediator mentioned just now, and, in any case ie is
firmly established (in the following chapter one finds the proof) that
Java venerated Agastya. With the data referring to Southern India
for the derivation of the Hindu-colonists, the certainty is thus assured,
on the authority of the inscription of Canggal, that men in 732 were
well aware of obtaining their Siva-worship from the South-Indian land
of Agastya.”

The name of Safjaya is yet known to us in a different manner?
In a remarkable inscription from Kédu, published and edited by Stut-
tetheim’, dated in go7 and emanating from king Balitung, a series of
deceased kings are invoked as the protectors of the kingdom and this
seties concludes with the name of the reigning king himself. Now,
this summing-up commences with: rakai Matarim, sang ratu Saijaya,
upon which follow names with the title Sri maharaja. Alchough one
may now ask, whether the meaning is that Safijaya is the raka of Mata.
tim (what indeed seems to be probable) or whether two persons are
intended by them, and although it is somewhat queer that just
Saijaya is not called maharaja, still it cannot, in our opinion, be
doubted chat here the well-known Safjaya of the Canggal inscription
is meant, The significance of this is of great importance in two
respects: first of all, we are enlightened about the successors of the
king—to chem we shall revere in the following chapter—and, in the
second place, it appears that Safjaya was, or let us rather be more
cautious and say: in the tenth century could be reckoned as the first
in the series of the Mataram-kings.

Now, when the same author means‘ to attach historical value to a
passage from the Carita Parabyangan*, where Saijaya, the son of Séna

1 On Agastya see Nilakanta Sastri in Tijdschr, Bat. Gen. 76 (1936) pp.
471-545 (and c£, Stinivasachary in Aiyangar Com. Vol., 1936, pp. 492-495).

2 Also his name is that of a river Séndjaja in Central Java (Rouffaer,
Bijdr. Kon. Inst, 74, 1918, p. 159); likewise that of his father corresponds with
the Snawa (Poerbatjaraka, Tijdschr Bat. Gen. 93, 1933, p. 529).

3 Tijdschr, Bat, Gen. 67 (1927) pp. 172-215,

4 A Javanese period in Sumatran bistory (1929) p. 18; Ondbeden van Bali
1 (1929) p. 15 and tgoff.

5. See TBG 59 (1920) p, 403 and 416ff.

Google
28 The first Central-Javanese period

(the Sanna of the inscription) is mentioned as a conqueror of Bali,
Bima, Malayu, Kémir (Khmer), Kéling, where there is a king, Sri
Vijaya, Barus, China, and thus considers thisking as a great conqueror,
then it seems to us that too much honour has been shown to this
troubled source, which is so far removed from the events, The possi-
bility of overseas campaigns can be recognised, but it is decidedly no
more than a mere possibility.?

Of king Safjaya’s lidge-sanctuary, only little traces are extant; of
them it is not even settled if they are not pethaps due to a later
renewal of the sanctury.* Nevertheless, we stand, with this oldest dated
information about such a foundation*, in the beginning of the Hindu-
Javanese architectural and statuary art, and it is here the place to
consider a few points regarding it, not naturally over the particulars,
about which separate works provide the necessary data, but over the
problem of origin and character of the Hindu-Javanese art in general.

Regarding the oldest Central-Javanese times, from which no liter-
ature, no document in the native language is left over, but only such
a few Sanskrit inscriptions and further Chinese notice, there isonly one
sphere in which we can perceive a little of the culture of the days, and
that is che sphere of Buddhistic science. From these two things emerge
clearly:: first of all, the lofty flight which this study had achieved, as
appears from the protracted sojourn of several pilgrims and the special
recommendation of I-tsing who, in this connexion, did not differentiate
the Buddhism of Sumatra which was visited by him from that of the
remaining islands. And, in the second place, that we have here to
think not only of the Hindus who had come to the foreign land but
also of the children of che soil, wich special emphasis on the latter, as
has been ascertained in respect of Jaanabhadra and as also appears from
the proficiency in the native language, the Kw'un-lun, which the
pilgrims reckoned as advantageous for their study. Without wishing
to draw directly a parallel between science and art, we may yet infer

1 Regarding this see also Bosch in TBG 6g (1929) p. 147 and 155.

2 On recent excavations see Ondb, Versi, 1937 p. 11ff 23 and pl, 2-4,

3 Pethaps the sanctuary, where king Saijaya was buried, is mentioned
in the inscription of Todjok, dated 1100, See Stutterheim Bijdr. Kon.

Inst, go (1933) pp. 282-287.

Google
The first Central-Javanese period 79

that the ability of creating this art may not « priori be denied to a
people who had made such scientific achievements, In both the
cases, it refers to an att, a science, which was exclusively Hindu in
origin, In both the cases, one must not imagine any cultivation of
them under the general people but under the small minority who fele
themselves called to such a task.

The oldest forms of the Hindu-Javanese art, which have come
down to us, are found on the plateau of Digng, the Old-Javanese
Dibyang, the plain enclosed by hills, formerly a crater-bed, to the
North of Wanasaba. Ie has been expounded elsewhere? that this
settlement on an outlying, chilly and moist mountain-plain is not to
be considered, as it was once done, as an old capital of Java an abode
there was ultimately far from being alluring, the provisions for a
population of some magnitude can and could be procured only with
great difficulty and, as a central point for governing a kingdom, such
a remote and barren tract was also extremely unsuitable. It was rather
a place of great sanctity, where the higher powers were probably
worshipped even before the advent of the Hindus, and in the Hindu-
Javanese period a place of pilgrimage of particular importance was
consecrated to Siva.* The sanctuaries were then the main things
what dwellings there were (only left over in foundation) have served
for the houses of priests, the dwelling-places for the personnel, guest-
houses, abodes of the pilgrims, also of very notable ones, the court
and the great persons of the state.t The extant remains of buildings
ate best explained by this conception.

Ac first sight it appears doubeful if we may ascribe these remains
to the oldest Central-Javanese period: the earliest dated inscription
of Diéng is from 809, thus from the Sailendra-period which is to be

1 Recently very-old remains have come to light in Gébang (Kalasan); see
Oudb, Versh 1937 pp. 13-16, 24 and pl. 5-13,

2 Ink. Up. 204.

3 An image of the bhatarai Dibyang (the deity of Diéug) ismentioned
in Tijdschr. Bat, Gen. 64 (1924) p. 334 and 657.

4 We cannot however admit that Ding should be meant by Lang-pi-ya, a
place situated in the hills, to which the king, according to a later Chinese datum
Wotes p. 14), frequently resorted in order to see the sea} see below,

Google
80 The first Central-lavanese period

discussed in che following chapter and, in the buildings, one
finds many peculiarities which are characteristics of the Sailendra-
monuments. On reflection, one can however ascertain that in building-

forms and ornamentation an older and a later phase is perceptible,
and then just the later one agrees with that of the Sailendras, Also in
other respects, regarding the representation of divine figures and
worship, Diéng appears to have preserved all sorts of antique traditions
which have altered elsewhere: a peculiar conception of the so-called
Guru, the institution of the pitémabas (a class of spiritual dignitaries),
the worship of Haricandana.?- On ground of all chese together, it is
admissible that in Diéng the oldest: Hindu-Javanese art and the
oldest. Hindu-Javanese Saivism ate met with among the later
products; both continued to flourish here in the Sailendra-petiod,
and in conformity with the new ideas the former was modified.
That the inscriptions now refer to a later time is however purely
accidental.

A survey of the Javanese Saivism cannot be expected in a history-
‘work like this, the less so where ie is, in the main, Indian : how could
it be otherwise, where the effect of the divine worship is considered
to be dependent on scrupulously following the directions and the
formulae of tradition? Meanwhile, it is equally natural that, in
practice, it is impossible to keep things always the same, and con-

sequently something peculiarly Javanese has also penetrated here.
On Digng was also found one of the old kettle-drums introduced from
South-East Asia,* perhaps it had been venerated there for its
supernatural power even before the Hindus came to Java; one can
imagine its worship in one of the Hindu-Javanese sanctuaries in the
same way as a specimen, manifestly manufactured later on, is at
present found in Pejeng on Bali.

Of how great importance Digng was considered to be, can appeat
from the arrangement for the drainage of and the approach to the
plateau: for the former, a great, partly underground canal stood in

1 See further in Meded. Kon, Akad. v, Wetensch. fd. Lett. 58 (1924)
pp. 210-215 and 222-225, ef, Gonda. Bijdr, Kon, Inst, 92 (1936) p. 452.
2 Rouffaer in Enc. v, Ned. India Il 2 (1918) s, v, Keteltrommen.

Google
The first Centrab Javanese period 81

service; for the latter, thete were some routes constfucted from the
South and North, which can yet be followed over kilometres distance
and which ascended the slopes by flights of stairs. Similar great
undertakings consequently also belonged to the realm of possibilities.
In the foundations of houses is noticed the tenaciousness of a tradition
which is represented up till now even by the ground-plan in the krstons
of the Principalities and che Balinese ‘puri’s. ‘The att is especially
represented in the temples and in the divine images, both set up in
great sobriety and sternness; the buildings are small in circumference
and little complicated in construction; the architecture in its clear
outline is here the main thing, and the fine ornamentation, though set
up with great artistic sense, remains in the back-ground,*

Everyone is fortunately of one mind that this art is Hindu in
origin. We saw already that the stone-construction for the sanctuaries
got currency in different parts of the Indian East in about the same
time, and it would not be proper to fail to appreciate the connexion
with the same phenomena in the neighbouring countries; the question
is only: whether the new art-forms were also introduced at that time,
of a wood-are already existing on the spot was transformed into stone.
In any case, it is not possible, so far as Java is concerned, to find out
the prototype of the Hindu-Javanese art anywhere in India. Still, the
best agreement—or, properly speaking, the least difference—is furnish-
ed by South-India, but, forms are also met with in other parts of India
(Bengal, e.g.) which do not appear to stand quite far away from the
Javanese ones. A great obstacle for this investigation is the scarcity
of Indian materials for comparison, because very little is left over from
this period, particularly in South-India, Consequently it is not preclud-
ed that in reality there existed an art-expression somewhere, whose
kinship with the Javanese one should do away with all uncertainty.
But we do not really know at the present moment its existence and
consequently the case stands thus, that a fatherland for this Indian
are is not to be found out.

One can now lay emphasis on this last fact and deduce from it
that the variation in the Javanese art is caused by the indigenous

1 Description in inl. I pp. 168-205,
i

Google
82 The first Central-Javanese period

clement which has co-operated in bringing it about; one can also bring
the manifest Indian character of the same Javanese art to the forefront
and think that it is really Hindu and that it would be possible to give
evidence of its being the direct off-shoot of that over there, if only
people had somewhat ampler material and a lite less restraint in
outlook. In this way; opinions stand diametrically against each other
regarding the share that the native people had in the oldest Javanese
art: from the cheory, that exclusively che children of the soil have
erected the sanctuaries, on the basis of the Silpei@stras laying down the
traditional Indian precepts, the Hindus only cooperating in giving some
indications ot explanations, to the completely reverse opinion which
consigns the art entirely to the credit of the Hindus and denies the
native people all share therein. We shall not discuss the theories here,
but refer to their exposition in the existing literature.’ Besides, we
have already made our own opinion known; placing the original Indian
character of the art to the forefront, we think we may yet recognise
Indonesian influences in the method of execution. The formula in

which we laid down this opinion has given rise to misunderstanding,
and therefore we could perhaps best express it in the following
manner: ‘an art originating from India, whose execution was taken
over by the Hindu-Javans”.

The centre of gravity for us lies in this that the creators of this
are were neither Hindus nor Indonesians, but Hindu-Javans, people,
who had adopted the art-traditions of Indian masters, but had also
involuntarily and unintentionally introduced some of their Indonesian
characteristics into them. Thus, they were the participators in the culture
of the Hinduized society, which has also produced meritorious scholars,
and whose peculiar composition we shall try to determine in a later
chapter from other points of view.

1 Bosch, Een bypothese omtrent den oorsprong der Hindoe-Javeansche
kunst , Hand, Eerste Congr. Taal-Land-Volkenk. v, Java (1921) pp. 93-1695
Van Erp, Het ornament in de Hindoe-bouwkunst op Midden-Java, Versl Eerste
Congr. Oost, Gen, in Nederl, (1921) pp. 10-12; Inleiding 1 pp. 127-141 Het
onde Java en Zin kunst (1937) pp. 41-533 Wolff, Schoemaker, Aesthetick en
corsprong der Hindoe-kunst op Java (1924); Coomaraswamy, History of
Indian and Indonesian art (1927) p. 125 ff

Google
Original from

Google UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

Digit

Original from

Digitized by Google UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
Original from

Digitized by Google UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
9 UNIV CHIGAN

