THE JOURNAL.

OF THE

GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

Vol. lll, No. 2 . July, 1936

eT tT

EDITED BY

U. N. GHOSHAL

Agents outside India:—
Messrs. LUZAC & CO.

46, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, LONDON, W,C, 1, °

Annual Subscription Rs. 4 or 6 shillings excluding Postage.

ta

GREATER INDIA SOCIETY
AIMS AND OBJECTS

To organize the study of Indian culture in Greater India fie.
Serindia, India Minor, Indo-China and: Insulindia], as well ag
in China, Korea, Japan and other countries of Asia.

To arrange for the publication of the resulis of researches into the
history of India’s spiritual and cultural relations with the outside
world: .

To create an interest in the history of Greater India and connected
problems among the students in the schools, colleges and Univer-
sities of India by instituting a systematic study of those subjects and
to take proper steps to stimulate the same.

To popularise the knowledge of Greater India by organising mass
meetings, lantern lectures, exhibitions and conferences.

MEMBERSHIP RULES

The annual subscription payable by the members is Rs. 12/- only.
Members are entitled to receive the publications of the Society at
concession rates and copies of the Journal ot the Society free of cost.

For rates of advertisement etc.
Apply to the Manager,
GREATER INDIA SOCIETY,
21, Badurbagan Row,
P.O. Amherst Street, Calcutta.

GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

PURODHA

Dr, Rabindranath Tagcre.
PATRONS

Maharaja of Pithapuram, Sir J. C. Bose, Sir B. L. Mitter, ete.
MANAGING COMMITTEE FOR 1936-7

President—Sir P. C. Ray, Kt.

Hony. Secretary—Dr. U. N. Ghoshal, Ph.D. .

Hony. Joint-Secretary—Dr, Kalidas Nag, D.Litt (Paris).

Hony. Assistant Secretary—Saresi Kumar Saraswati, Esq., M.A.

Other members cf the Committee—Prof, Suniti Kumar Chatterji,
D.Litt. (Lond.); Dr. Prabodh Chandra Bagchi, D.Litt.
(Paris): Dr. Nalinaksha Dutt, D.Litt (Lond.); O. C.
Gangcly, Esq.; Dr. Narendra Nath Law, Ph.D.; Nani
Gepal Maujmdar, Esg., M.A.; Prof. Vidhushekhara
Bhattacharya; Satyasundar Deb, Esq.

Journal Sub-Committee for 1936-37—-Drs. U. N. Ghoshal,
Kalidas Nag, Narendra Nath Law, Nalinaksha Dutt,
Prabodh Chandra Bagchi and Suniti Kumar Chatterji.

aye

&ca. No. DELAY
Date ae f- & / i. pea
Qall Nes P ate te Oe soe aemy

iy
roe go
. Ge Yeo eH
* Hana CS fi fa 5 ae i at
; eed Le Te 4 al of fs i" n
Pap on » Leo,

NOTICE TO SUBSCRIBERS

Subscribers are kindly asked to note that their annual
subscriptions to the Journal for the current year expire with
the present issue. It is earnestly requested that their subs-
eriptions for the next year may be sent to the Manager at
21, Badur Bagan Row, Calcutta, on or before the 3lst
December next.

REVISED RATES OF SUBSCRIPTIONS from next
year are Rs. 4/8/- or 88./6d. inclusive of postage in place
of the present rates of Rs. 4/- or 8s. exclusive of postal .

charges.

Manager, Greater India Society,
21, Badur Bagan Row, .
Calcutta.
JOURNAL OF THE GREATER INDIA SOSIETY
JULY: 1936

CONTENTS
Articles: Page

Contributions from the Mahavamea to our
knowledge of the Medizeval culture of

Ceylon (IJ) bee bee ses 139
By Dr. Wilhelm Geiger.
The Terminal Stipa of the Barabudur a 158
By Dr. J. Przyluski.
Kufijarakufijadega and the Changal Inscription @ 170
By Dr. Bahadur Chand Chhabra.
Veda and Avesta (II) . _ vee ee 178

By Dr. Batakrishna Ghosh.
Comment and Criticism

(i) ‘‘The Study of Javanese literature in India’’ 188
By Mr. Himansu Bhusan Sarkar.
(ii) A Correction aes me 196
By Mr. Himansu Bhusan Sorker.
Notices of Books - 197

J]. GONDA, The jagetcre Version of the Bhagavad-
Gité, (S. K. De); B. M. GOSLINGS, Gids in het Volken-
kunde Museum, XIll, (WH. B. SARKAR); J. PH.
DUYVENDAK, Inleiding tot de ethnologie van de
Indische Archipel, (H. B. SARKAR);. R. H. VAN
GULIK, Hayagriva, The Mantrayanic Aspect of Horse-
cult in China and Japan (J. N. BANERJEE); J.
GONDA, Agastyaparwa, (H. B. SARKAR); Koninklijke
Vereeniging Kolonial Instituut, 1935 (H. B. SARKAR);
ELIZABETH SHARPE, The India that is India, (K. N.) ;
HARI PRASAD SHASTRI, Book of. Ram: the Bible of
India (K. N.).

Obituary Notice.
Dr. E. Obermiller _ .
By Prof. Dr. Th. Stcherbatsky, Ph. D.
Extracts from the Annual Report of the Society
for the year 1935-36 Rs. — .
Publications of Gognate Interest in other doutnalé

2ii

214
219
THE JOURNAL

OF THE

GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

Vor: III JULY: 19356 No: 2

aun

Contributions from the Mahavamsa to our
knowledge of the Mediaeval Culture.
, of Ceylon
By Dr. Wilhelm Geiger.
[Continued from JGIS., Vol. I, no. 2.]

il
I. THE KING AND THE ROYAL COURT.
2. Court-life. |

19. The town or village where the king had his residence
is called rdjadhdni (royal city). It is the capital of the king-
dom. The oldest capital was Anuradhapura, situated near
the Malvatu-oya, in a plain which could be cultivated by
artificial irrigation. It was a village founded, according to
tradition, by one of Vijaya’s companions in the’ time of the
first Aryan immigration (Mhvus. 7.43). Pandukabhaya, the
fourth Sinhalese king, is said to have founded a city near
Anuradhapura and to have made it his residence. The city
was fortified and the ancient wall and ditch are still traceable,

but the area it covers is comparatively small, hardly more
than fifty acres. Nearly all the ruins of the splendid monas-
tic monuments lie. outside the fortification. But from, that
time onwards Anuradhapura has been a sacred place for the

wipes ot innate db onrbracaabe araationgipaathe oo

140 WILHELM GEIGER

Sinhalese people; so it was even in later times when it ceased
to be the seat of the royal court: it bore the name of
mila-rajadhani (the original capital). It suffered much from
the invasions of the Damilas, the population decreased more
and more, and the sacred buildings went to decay, In our
chronicle the situation is thus described as it was in the 12th
century (Mhvs, 78.98.) The great Dagobas, the Lohapasada,
the palaces and monasteries aforetime destroyed by the
Colas, were ruined and the ruins overgrown with trees. Bears
and panthers were dwelling there and the ground of the jungle
scarce offered a foothold by reason, of the heaps of bricks
and earth. Parakkamabahu | bestowed care upon the restora-
tion of Anuradhapura. In two different passages (74.1 sq.
and 78.96 sq.) an account is given of his enterprise. He sent
to Anuradhapura a high dignitary who restored within. a short
time the walls and the streets, the palaces and the gardens,
the ruined Dagobas and the Lohapadsdda and many other
buildings. It seems, however, that the work was not com-
pletely executed, for about a century later prince Vijayabahu
(IV) betook himself to Anuradhapura, had the mighty forest
round about the Thiparama and all the other sacred places
felled and these places embellished with new buildings
(88.80 sq.). But apparently he did not complete the restora-
tion of the most sacred Ruvanviéli Dagoba, for he appointed
a prominent priest to look after his work.

The second capital was Pulatthinagara, now Polonnaruva.
The town is first mentioned in the 7th century (Mhus. 44.122)
and was a temporary residence of Aggabodhi IV (658-74 A.D.)
and later on of some other kings of the 8th, 9th and 10th
centuries. (46.34, 48. 74, 50.9, 54.68), chiefly as a refuge when
the invasions of the Damilas were threatening. In the reign
of Vijayabahu I (1070-1114 A.D.) Pulatthinagara definitely
became the capital of the kingdom. Before that time the
Colas had taken possession of the northern half of Ceylon
and the power of the Sinhalese rulers was restricted to the
southernmost provinces. But Kitti, the later Vijayabahu,
after some vain efforts, finally succeeded in defeating and ex-
pelling the Colas and in restoring the Sinhalese kingdom (G. C.
CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 141

Mendis, Early History of Ceylon, pp. 55, 74).. However he
did not make Anuradhapura his residence, but Pulatthinagara.
It offered more security against the Damilas and was of greater
strategic importance, being farther off from the western coast
of the island and nearer to the frontier of Rohana.

The last king who resided in Pulatthinagara was the cruel
Kalinga usurper Magha. In, these disturbed times some of
those isolated rocks, which are so frequent in the Ceylonese
lowland, had been fortified by prominent Sinhalese who wish-
ed to keep their independence, as the Subha mountain in the
Maya-rattha and the Govindasela in Rohana. King Vijaya-
bahu III (1232-36 A.D.), who succeeded in restoring the royal
power at least in the Maya country had his residence in
Jambuddeni, i.e., Dambadeniya near Kurunegala. Later
capitals were Hatthigiripura, i.e., Kurunegala, Gangasiripura,
i.¢., Gampol, in the 14th century and Kotté near Colombo up
to the 16th century. The last royal residence of the Sinhalese
kings in the Portuguese and Dutch periods and when the
Englishmen arrived in Ceylon, was Sirivaddhana, the
modern Kandy.

The city of Pulatthinagara was considerably larger than
that of Anuradhapura. It had the length of about one mile
from North to South and a breadth of half a mile from East
to West. On the Western side it dominates the Tépi-veva,
on the three other sides walls and ditches can still be easily
traced. As in Anuradhapura, a good deal of the ruins lie
outside the city. They have been excavated to a large
extent and they make the splendour and wealth of the
mediaeval Sinhalese royalty manifest to the modern, visitor.

20. The Royal Palace (pasdda, rajageha, raja-
mandira, rafifio ghara, antepura) with the surrounding court-
yard (rdjaigana) was a citadel within the city and had its own
ramparts. The remainder of the palace in Anuradhapura may
perhaps be the building which is now traditionally called
Gedi-gé and which is situated near the centre of the city.
Much larger was the citadel in. Pulatthinagara with the splen-
did palace built by Parakkamabahu 1. It measures about 350 -
yards in length and 250 yards in breadth. |

saonkesh fats once tan Shgitsseniotooree

142 WILHELM GEIGER

The description of Parakkamabahu’s palace in the
chronicle (Mhus. 73.61 sq.) is quite in accordance with a
common model and we cannot make out from it a true idea
of the building. The technical expressions occurring in. the
passage are met with in literature wherever a palace is
spoken of (A. K. Coomaraswamy, Early Indian Archiiec-
ture, UI Palaces in Eastern Art Ill, 1931, p. 181 sq.).

The palace ‘is (i} satfabhiima, seven-storeyed. It had, no
doubt, upper storeys, but the number is merely schematic, as
the numbers thousand or hundred in 2, 3, and 4. It had (ii)
thousand chambers (gabbha) and (iii) many hundreds of pillars
(thambha) which were variously adorned (vicitra) either in
form or in colour. It had (iv) hundreds of kitdgaras, sepa-
rately roofed pavillions which projected on any of the storeys.
It had (v) doors (dvdra), large and small, (vi) windows (kavdta),
(vii) stairs (sopdna) and (viii) well adorned walls (bhiiti), It
was radiant with manifold ornaments of creepers and flowers
and offered conveniences for every season.

It is a lucky chance that the ruins, as far as they are
excavated, render a better description of the palace possible
than the verses of the Mahavamsa. :

The main and central part of the palace is a building of
about 23 yards in length from North to South and 15 yards in
breadth. It is divided into two equal parts by a broad passage
running through it from East to West. The walls of this

building are made of brick and very strong, nearly 10 feet

thick, so that the interior space has not more than 8 yards in
breadth. It is obvious that these walls had to support a
superstructure, most probably the upper storeys.

The main door of the palace was on the eastern side.
Through a vestibule one entered.a large hall of about 38 yards
in, length from North to South and of 14 yards in breadth. Its
roof was supported by three rows of altogether 36 pillars.
We may suppose that in this splendid room the Court-festivals
took place. The king in great state, sitting on his throne and
surrounded by his attendants, showed here his sacred person
to his subjects and received their homage.

Behind the hall is the central building and having passed
CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 143

through it one entered a smaller hall on its Western side with
one row of 8 pillars only, and quitted the palace through a
gateway similar to the Eastern entrance, but much
smaller.

The whole building is encircled on four sides by a great
number of chambers, the largest of which have hardly more
than four yards in length and even less in breadth. There
ate also remains of stone stairs leading to an upper storey.
Here were, I think, the private chambers of the royal family
and also open floors or terraces (pdsdda-tala, mahdiiala) where
the king and the queen and their attendants could enjoy the
sun on‘chilly days and the shade in the hot season. But the
upper storeys of the palace in Pulatthinagara have entirely
disappeared, probably owing to the fact that they were of
slighter construction and partly made of wood. Doubtless
the royal bedroom (sirisayanagabbha) which is described in
Mhos. 73.65 sq. was in this part of the building.

21. Besides. the royal palace, there were, often or regu-
larly, other buildings within the citadel (rajangana), In
Pulatthinagara, ruins of several structures are still visible ‘near
the pasdda. It is, however, impossible to ascertain their
appropriation. But in Mhos. 90.66, we are told that in the
14th century King Parakkamabahu IV, who was residing in
Kurunegala, erected a temple for the sacred Tooth Relic
(dathadhatu) within the royal courtyard. The Tooth Relic
that was brought to Ceylon in the 4th century (37.92) was the
palladium of the Sinhalese kingdom, and the rulers kept it
in their immediate neighbourhood. In, Anuradhapura, the
ruins which by tradition are assumed to be those of the temple
of the Tooth Relic (dathddhdiughara), are situated in the
city not far from the Gedi-gé. It is of imterest to know where
in Pulatthinagara the sacred relic was kept during the bright-
est period of the kingdom.

Within the citadel no trace has been found of a dathd-
dhatughara. But outside it, near its Northern Gate, there is
an artificial terrace, measuring a little more than 100 yards
square, on which a very important group of monuments is
situated. Hitherto it was the prevalent opinion that these

144 WILHELM GEIGER

monuments represent the Jetavanarama which is mentioned
as a foundation of Parakkamabahu I and described in Mhuvs.
78.32 sq. 1 accepted myself this identification which was first
suggested by H. W. Codringtom. But it has been contested
with weighty arguments by S. Paranavitana (Polonnaruva
Topography, in the Ceylon Journal of Science, Section—
Geography, Vol. H, p. 161 sq.). |

Paranavitana points out that it. was against the practice
of the Buddhist monks to have their monasteries inside the
city, as we also see in Anuradhapura. Moreover, he states,
chiefly from inscriptions found on the monuments, that the
Quadrangle was the Temple of the Tooth Relic in the
Polonnaruva period. It had the name Dalada-maluva,
Terrace of the Tooth Relic, both in books and inscriptions.
One of the Quadrangle buildings was the Tooth Relic Temple.
of Vijayabahu I (1059-1116 A.D.), another that of Nissanka-
malla (1187-1196). We might expect that Parakkamabahu I,
who was reigning in the time between the two aforesaid
kings, had also built a temple on the Quadrangle for that
sacred palladium of the kingdom. The chronicle, however,
merely says (74.198) that the King had erected in the middle
of the town. (nagara-majjhamhi) for the Tooth Relic a splen-
did temple of five proportions. On the Quadrangle there is
one building, the so-called Thiiparama, which perhaps can
be regarded as Parakkamabahu's temple of the Tooth. But
I do not know if it can be attributed to that period on grounds
of style.

I fully agree with Paranavitana so far that the Quadrangle
is not identical with Parakkamabahu’s Jetavana monastery,
and that its buildings were dedicated to the worship of the
Tooth Relic. But I hesitate to accept the identification of
the Jetavana with the northernmost group of ruins round the
image-house, popularly called the Demalamahasdya. It
seems indeed to be beyond all doubts that the enumeration
in Mhos. 78.40 sq. of the monasteries founded by Parakkama-
bahu proceeds from South to North. The Jetavana is men-
tioned first. Since it is not the Quadrangle, we must identify
it with the group immediately outside the Northern Gate
CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 145

between the city wall and the Rankos-Dagoba. We return,
therefore, to the former traditional nomenclature. The next
monastery is the Alahana-parivena (78.48 sq.) with the
Pacchimarama, the Western monastery, adjoining it in the
west, and the third is the UttarArama, the Northern Monas-
tery (78.74-5} which is now appropriately called Gal-vehera,
i.e., Rock Monastery. Finally, the Damilathiipa is men-
tioned in the chronicle (78.76). This is, no doubt, the huge
heap of bricks, north of the Gal-vehera, now overgrown. with
jungle, looking like a natural hill over which run the paths
of the wild elephants. The traditional name Demalamaha-
siya has been erroneously transferred to a building which
is situated a good deal farther to the North and resembles
the monuments of the Quadrangle, the Thiiparama and the
Hata-da-gé

Regarding the Jetavana, I refer to Mhus. 78.41, where
we are told that the King built in this monastery a beautiful
round temple wholly of stone to the Tooth Relic. If this
notice, which does not seem to be in keeping with the afore-
cited passage concerning the erection of a Tooth temple in
the middle of the city, is reliable at all, it would certainly
better suit the Jetavana than the buildings to the North of the
Damilathipa, where Paranavitana supposes that temple to
have been, situated. It is hardly probable that the King would
have kept the palladium of the royalty at so great a distance
from his palace.

22. The Royal treasure (rajasaidhana, rdja-
bhanda) is frequently mentioned in the chronicle. The royal.
dignity is closely connected with its possession. It contained
the insignia or ornaments (rajabharana, rajabhiisana) which
the king was wont to wear on festival occasions. Whenever
the kingdom was in danger, the ruler did his utmost to secure
the regalia. When Kassapa, the heroic. son of Upatissa Il
(522-24 A.D.) realized the uselessness of resistance against
the mighty usurper Silakala, he took his father and with his
life and the royal treasure tried to escape, to the hill-country
of Malaya. But he was surrounded . on the way by his foes
and committed suicide (Moe. ae 10 sa). Ak ‘was considered |

Panetta sean!

serene

>
j
,
i
i
i

146 WILHELM GEIGER

as a great disaster that the Colas, when they seized King
Mahinda V in the year 1017 A.D. also took possession of the
royal insignia (sabbam Gbharanam, 55.16) and sent them to
Southern India.

A new Sinhalese king was always anxious to seize first
of all the regalia without which his dignity would have been
imperfect. When in the year 496 A.D. Maggallana after
the suicide in battle of his brother Kassapa I had occupied
the kingdom he took the whole of the royal treasure (sabbam
sddhanam addya, 39.28) and entered the capital to ascend
the throne. After the death of Aggabodhi IV (647 A.D.) in
Pulatthinagara the royal subjects secured the regalia (raja-
bhandam, 46.38) and brought them to Anuradhapura. When
Agegabodhi VII died in the year 772: A.D. the heir apparent
Mahinda If came from Mahatittha and having crushed the
rebels he had the intriguing queen put into fetters and seized
the royal power together with the royal treasure (rajjam ganhi
sasGdhanam, 48.89). .

The usurper Mitta who had killed the legitimate king
Vijayabahu IV about the year 1273 A.D. forced his way
into the city of Tambuddoni, entered the royal palace, seated
himself on the throne and showed himself to the whole army,
his person adorned with royal ornaments (rajab hiisanabha-
sitam, 90.13). After the Tooth Relic and the Bow! Relic
were retaken in Rohana by the generals of Parakkamabahu
and carried to Pulatthinagara with great solemnity, the king
himself arrayed with all his ornaments (sabbaébharanabhi-
sito, 74.224) mounted his favourite elephant and surrounded
by many dignitaries he went forth to reverence the sacred
relics. .

Such was the appearance of the Sinhalese kings on festive
occasions,

23. The royal insignia were 64 in number (Mhus. 82.50),
but though they were often mentioned in literature, a list of
them is not readily available (E. W. Perera, Ceylon Notes and
Queries, II], 1914, p. xxxvi). Some of them are enumerat-
ed in the Thiipavamsa, a work composed in the 13th century,
but the terms are hardly reconcilable with those occurring
CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 147

in the Pali chronicle. There the following regalia are
mentioned :—

(a) The throne (dsana, sihdsana, pallahka). The ex-
pression ‘licn-seat’, is frequently used, for the lion is the
symbol of royal power (25.98; 90.13, 23). Sometimes the
king’s seat was erected on the stone figure of a crouching
lion. A specimen of such a figure with an inscription of king
Nissankamalla is preserved in the Colombo Museum.

(b) When sitting on the throne the king wore a crown on
his head which was adorned with gold and precious stones.
The most superb of the stones was the crest-jewel (ciilamani).
In the Mahdvamsa three terms occur for the crown: meakuta,
kirita, moli. | translate these words tentatively with crown,
diadem, tiara. In the Thiipavamsa five kinds of crown (Sinh.
otunna) are distinguished: siddha-, mini-, simha-, vydghra-,
and ruvan-, crown, i.e., the celestial crown, the jewel-, lion-,
tiger crown, and the golden crown (E. W. Perera, I.c.
p. xxxvii, 19). It is, however, impossible to trace such a dis-
tinction in the Pali chronicle, nor do we know whether the
three words used here are merely synonymous or denote
different kinds of crown. King Kassapa I] having defeated
the usurper Dathopatissa (641 A.D.) united the island again
under one dominion, but it is expressly said that he did not
wear the crown (makutam eu na dharayi—44.145), for, the royal
insignia were in Dathopatissa’s possession (44°126-8). Among
the treasures captured by the Colas in the year 1017 A.D.,
there’ was also the royal crown (makutam—55.16). In a
similar connection the diadem is mentioned (kiritam—
56.10) which is also classed among the sixty-four royal
ornaments in Mhus. 82.50. In the description of Parakkama-
bahu’s first coronation the term moli, the tiara, is used
(71.28), and when after Manabharana’s death, his second
coronation took place he entered the capital in’ a
solemn procession, sitting on the back of his state-elephant
and wearing on his head the tiara (siras@ dhdrayam molim
72,326), which sparkled with the brilliance of its jewels.

(c) The particular symbol of the royal dignity was the
white umbrella (seta-chatia).. The phrase ‘to raise the (white)

148 WILHELM GEIGER

umbrella’ means the same as to ascend the throne (Mhus.
55.1) and the phrase ‘to unite Lanka under one umbrella’, the
same as to govern the whole island (64.32; 69.4). In the
inscriptions the date is generally given by the words “‘in
such and such a year after the elevation of the umbrella’’
{see above in para 4). In festive assemblies the umbrella was
held over the king’s head by an official of high rank whose
title was chattagadhaka (59.16). Even in. battles the king riding
on his elephant was made recognisable by the white umbrella,
as in modern times the position of the commander-in-chief
by his standard. By a mishap king Samghatissa lost his
umbrella in the battle against the rebel Moggallana (after-
wards M. Ill, 611-7). It fell to the ground, because it knocked
against the branch of a tree. The hostile soldiers took it and
handed it over to their commander. Moggallana raised it
standing on the summit of a hill. Thereupon the troops of
Samghatissa abandoned their ruler and surrounded Mogga-
lana thinking he was now their king (44.18 sq.). The um-
brella as a symbol of royalty is known to the whole of India
since ancient times. A chatta was according to the tradition
among the presents sent by king Asoka to Devanampiyatissa
(11.28). The latter himself dedicated a white umbrella to
the eight shoots of the sacred Bodhi-tree to honour them like
kings, and he bestowed the royal consecration (abhiseka)
upon them (19.59).

(d) The camara was a costly fly-flapper, the chowry
or the bushy tail of the Tibetan Yak, Bos gruniens. It was
often set in a costly decorated handle in which form it was
one of the insignia of ancient Asiatic royalty. The chowry
is therefore mentioned side by side with the umbrella (76.123;
99.47, 15; 100.193). Its handle is made of gold and silver
(85.26; 89.19). The term vdlavijani, literally fan made of
hair, seems to be synonymic with cdmera. When the Hair
Relic had been brought to Ceylon, king Mogegallana | (496-
513 A.D.) constructed a casket for it which he placed under a
pillar-supported canopy, and he dedicated a valavijani to
it, in order to make its royal dignity manifest (39.53). Besides
the cdmara and the chatta a jewel-fan (mani-télavan{o), i.e.,
CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 149

a fan decorated with jewels is mentioned among the royal
insignia in a purely mythical passage (31.73).

(ec) Ornaments worn by the king on solemn occasions also
occur among the regalia, such as bracelets (kataka—Mhovs.
82.50, vajiravalaya—55.16), etc. The most precious ornament
was apparently a chain of one string of pearls (ekévali). It
is noticeable that the same is mentioned in the Kautaliya
Arthaégastra II, 11.29 (transl. by Shamasastry, p. 87) in an
enumeration of royal ‘treasures. When Aggabodhi II] was
defeated, by Dathopatissa about the year 626 A.D. and forced
to flee to Jambudvipa, he left everything behind and took
with him ofily the ekdvali by which to make himself known.
King Aggabodhi IV, who was a devoted friend of the
Buddhist community used that chain as rosary (akkhamala—
46.17). .

(f) A royal weapon was the unbreakable dagger
(acchijja-cchurikd) mentioned in 55.16 immediately after the
vajiravalaya, It was no doubt the dagger with which Kassapa ig
committed suicide by cutting his throat (39.27). This was
also done by Jetthatissa II] (44.112) who was wont to keep
the dagger in his betel-bag. In the description of a similar
scene the word asiputtaka is used insted of churika (41.24).

(g) Together with the unbreakable dagger in 55.17 also
chinnapattikadhdtu is mentioned as belonging to the royal
treasure. The word requires a few remarks. Wijesinha in
his translation of the Mahdvamsa (II, p. 90) renders it as
“sacred forehead band’’ and adds the note: ‘“The term, is
of doubtful meaning, but it evidently refers to the fillet worn
round the forehead.’’ But this is impossible. The final word
dhatu clearly points to some sacred relic and the first word
of the compound chinna is incompatible with the idea of a
fillet, for it means ‘“‘cut off." Perhaps even the suffix in
pattika should not be neglected: pattikd is a small piece of
cloth. I believe, therefore, that chinnapattikddhdiu was a
relic consisting in a torm piece of stuff from the Buddha's
robe which was probably kept in a small costly case and ©
worn by the king asa talisman. :

150 , WILHELM GEIGER

24. In Ceylon as in the whole of India the king's vehicle
was the elephant. The best elephant in the royal stables was
the state-elephant (mangala-hatthi or -dvipe). It was mounted
by the ruler not only during festive processions (see above
22, 23b) but also in war (23c.) When Kassapa | and Jetthatissa
II] committed suicide in battle (22, 23/), they were riding on
their elephants. A most heroic scene from ancient times is
the single combat between Dutthagamani and Elara near the
south gate of Anuradhapura, as it is described in Mhvs.
25.69-70. Both kings had mounted their elephants; that of
Dutthagamani was called Kandula, that of his adversary
Mahapavvata. Elara hurled his dart first, but Gamani
avoided it. He made his own elephant pierce his enemy's
elephant with his tusks and hurled at the same time his dart
at Elara and Elara fell with his elephant. The state-elephant
was no doubt always a tusker of extra-ordinary size. As
tuskers are very rare in Ceylon such animals were imported
either from Burma or from India. Impert of elephants from
Burma, as we shall see below (29}, is confirmed by the
chronicle itself (Mhus. 76.17).

There were also horses in the royal stables (70.265), and
a state-horse (mangalavajin, assa mangala) is mentioned in the
chronicle (22.52, 34.86). Prince Kassapa, the brother of king
Sena I, was on horseback in a battle against the Danilas,
and the swiftness of the noble steed was so great that the
one horse leoked as if it were a line of many steeds (50.26-28),
The royal elephants were under the cate of the elephant-
keepers (hatthipaka) and the horses under that of the riding-
masters (furafgasddin—88.34),

25. In mediaeval Ceylon, as everywhere in India the
harem was an essential part of the royal court. There are
several terms for harem in the Mahavamsa: antepuritthiyo,
i.c., palace women (14.46), oredha and orodhajand (60.85),
itthagdra or in the plural itthdgdra (70.266; 72.302; 59.33).
The last term may be compared with German frauenzimmer.
The women of the harem were not only the king's retinue
but also his concubines. It is expressly stated in 59.33 that
none of king Vijayabahu I's itthégard conceived a fruit of the
CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 151

womb by the monarch. Only onthe wives of equal birth, the
queens, he begot children. Sons begotten on the itthaégara
had no right of succession. |

The women of the royal seraglio were in constant attend-
ance upon the king and they did their utmost to please him
and to grow in his favour. Those of Vijayabahu were em-
ulating his attendants in amassing many merits in many ways
(60.85). Without credha the splendour of the royal court
was defective. When Manabharana had overcome king
Gajabahu and taken possession of Pulatthinagara he fetched
from Rohana the sacred relics, tooth and bowl, his mother
Sugala and the whole of the harem (sakalam itthdgaram
—70.266), fer he wished te show the people that he was now
the legitimate ruler.

Chiefly on festive occasions the palace women were in
the king’s retinue. Ten years ago | was present in
Djokjakarta, Isle of Java, at the celebration of one of the
three anniversaries (garabek) in the Sultan's palace. When
the Sultan entered the festival hall, he was followed by
officials who catried the insignia, the umbrella, the fan made
cf peacock’s feathers, the lance, etc., and immediately after
them came the women of the seraglio who, during the whole
solemnity, were squatting on the side of and behind the
Sultan’s throne. A group of women had strong yellow paint
on their necks and shoulders. On beholding the whole cere-
mony | could form a notion of a mediaeval Indian court-feast.

The Javaka king Candabhanu was accompanied by his
harem even in war, for in the booty got by Vijayabahu and
Virabahu after his defeat the loveliest women of his court
(orodhavari—Mhus. 88.74) are mentioned besides the
elephants and horses, many weapons and the entire treasure.

3. Reyal duties.

26. In order to be able to fulfl his duties in the most
perfect manner the king must know the precepts of political —
wisdom (niti, naya), If he masters them he is worthy of the
name of a clever statesman. (nayafifiu—Mhos. 48.50; 58.1).
The king is'to relgn according to >the mules of stateoralt fueled:

152 WILHELM GEIGER

nayam—48.96) without transgressing the precepts laid down for
monarchs (rajanilim avokkamma—-90.56). We have noticed
above (para. 11) that the study of various works of niti
literature was included in the princely education. In the later
part of the chronicle, which was composed by Dhammakitti's
successor, Manu is recognised as the highest authority.
Vijayabahu Hl (1186-7A.D.) was an eminent ruler who did
not depart from. any precept of the political teaching of Manu
(Manunitikkamadm kimci avokkamma—80.9} and Parakkama-
bahu II (1236-71 A.D.) is praised as versed in the ordinances
of Manu (Manunitivisdrado—84.2).

Ten virtues (dasa rajadhamma—37.107; 52.43) are essen-
tial for a gocd ruler. They are not enumerated in the chronicle.
It is supposed that they. are well known to everybody. But
they are specified in a Jataka verse: giving of alms (dana),
leading a moral life (sila), liberality (pariccdga), fair dealing
(ajjava), gentleness (maddava), self-discipline (tapo), free-
dom from wrath (akkodha), mercy (avihimsda), patience
(khanti), peaceableness (avirodho).—Jataka, ed. by Fausball,
Ill. 274. The ten meritorious works (dasa puffiakriyd, 37.180)
are a similar list of royal virtues, or they are identical with
dasa rajadharnmd.

As a king is always menaced with ambuscades of foes
and rebels (cord, démarikd), he must try to gain the goodwill
of his subjects by liberality (dana), friendly speech (peyyavajja)
beneficence (aithecariya) and scciability (samdnattatd), These
are the four heartwinning qualities (cattdri samgahavatthiini—
37.108; 52.43; 92.8) by which good rulers are distinguished.

27. Upon his officials the king used to confer distinc-
tions in order to acquire ready and cbedient followers or to
show them his gratitude if they had successfully executed the
royal orders. We meet in the chronicle with several terms,
which are manifestly nothing but honorary titles, bestowed
on the bearers by the king for public services. The system
became more and more complex reaching a climax about

‘ the time of Parakkamabahu the Great. One of these titles is

kesadhdtu or kesadhdtu-ndyaka. Tt may have orginated
in the members of the order entrusted with the care of the
CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 153

Hair Relic (kesa-dhatu). Later on this became a mere
formality Parakkamabahu conferred the title on his general
Rakkha (kesadhdtu-padam datvG--70.19} when he had sub-
jugated some districts of the Malaya province, and to another
of his generals (add kesadh&tu-nayakattam—70.279) ere he be-
gan the war with his most powerful rival, Manabharana.
The title of a kesadhdtu(-ndyaka) first occurs in the I1th
century (57.68). In the reign of Parakkamabahu several
officers or generals are mentioned who bore it (70.23, 66, 98;
72.2, 5, 7, 107; 76.253, 255, 269, 324). Later on it seems to
have fallen into disuse.

It is sometimes impossible to say with certainty whether
such a term is a mere title or the designation of an official
post with peculiar duties. But this much seems to be very
probable that all the compounds with -giri, -gala as second
part and with lanka- as first part are honorary titles only. |
refer to nagaragalla and nagaragiri. The former title was
bestowed by Parakkamabahu on his general Sankhadhatu
(nagaralla-padam datva—70.280). As nagaragiris are men-
tioned Mahinda, Natha, Kitti (70.89, 146, 199; 70.318: 72.107;
76.60); the nagaragiri Gokanna was im the service of king
Gajabahu (66.35, 62; 70.68). Similar titles are lokagalla
(75.138), nilagiri (70.137, 140, 142), jitagiri (72.25), mdGragiri
(72.11; 72.164, 174) and lantkdgiri (72.27; 72.124-5; 76.250).
Other compounds with lankd- are lankaddhindyaka or lanka-
dhindtha (70.24, 98) and lankapura (72.39; 75.70; 76.250) in
addition to lankagiri. The title lankddhikarin was conferred
on Kittti (add... lankadhikarittam—70. 218) who up to that time
was a sankhakandyaka,

A translation of these terms: wauld Sadly be appropriate.
Generally the title is immediately joined to the personal name
of its bearer, as for instance, Mahinda-nagaragiri or Rakkha-
lahkapuro. If the person is mentioned before in the narra-
tion and therefore known to the reader, often the title alone -
is used. Frequently the phrases like “‘the lankapura which
is known as Kadakkuda” (Kadakkuda-iti-ssuto lankapuro} or

“the kesadhatu named Tamba”’ aroha, Kes 2) are
met with in the chronicle, = ere

154 WILHELM GEIGER

28. One of the principal duties of the king was the dip-
lomatic intercourse with other people. He received the
messengers sent to his court by foreign kings and he himself
sent messengers to other courts. When in the 12th century
the island of Ceylon was divided into three or four provinces
and each of the provinces had its own ruler, there was a
polite diplomatic intercourse between the courts, as eng as
the rulers were living in peace. Manabharana sent messen-
gets to Pulatthinagara to bring king Vikkamab&hu the news
of the birth of his son,. Parakkamabahu (Mhus. 62.54).
Later on Parakkamabahu himself announced in the same
manner the death of his uncle Kittisirimegha to king Gaja-
bahu in Pulatthinagara and to his cousin, the younger Mana-
bharana, who was the ruler in Rohana (67.95).

29. Of greater importance were the diplomatic relations
with Ramafifia and with the Dravidian kingdoms in Southern
India.

Ramafiia was the name of the province of Pegu in
Southern Burma. Its inhabitants were, like those of Ceylon,
Buddhists of the Theravada school. Between the two
countries there had never been a dissension up to the 12th
century, and their monarchs were wont to send each other
many costly gifts and in this way to maintain. a friendly inter-
course (Mhus. 76.10 sq.). Vijayabahu I (1059-1114 A.D.) sent
envoys with various presents to the king cf Ramafifia and
received in return valuable gifts from him (58.60.) When in
Ceylon the number of the bhikkhus had decreased so much
that it became impossible to make the chapter full for the hold-
ing of the ecclesiastical ceremonies, the same king fetched
from Ramaiifia bhikkhus who were thoroughly versed in the
Buddhist precepts and able to restore the Order which had
declined in Lanka (60-4 sq.). It is well known that for the
same purpose in the 18th century an embassy was sent to
Siam by king Kittisirirajasiha A chapter of bhikkhus arrived
in Ceylon and established there the Siamese sect (Sir D. B.
Jayatilaka, Saranarkara, the last Sengha-Raja of Ceylon—
p. 148q.). The Burmese sect.in the Island is of a somewhat
latersorigin,| 0 aS

owes EES
CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 155

The friendship between the two countries was severely
disturbed in the 12th century when new regulations concern-
ing the trade in elephants were introduced by the ruler of
Ramafifia. These regulations were disadvantageous to the
Ceylonese merchants. Moreover envoys sent by king
Parakkamabahu | were ill-treated and a princess who passed
through Burma’ on her way to Kamboja was seized by force.
Parakkamabahu resclved to make war on the Ramafifia king.
His troops having crossed the sea landed in two different
ports and overthrew the hostile armies.

Such is the report of the chronicle (Mhus. 76.10-68), but
we do not know how far it is reliable. It is certainly much
exaggerated. In the negotiations of peace which followed
the campaign the community of bhikkhus is said to have
acted ag intermediaries. The former friendly relations were
restored by king Vijayabahu II (1186-7 A.D.). The king him-
self composed a letter in the Magadha language which he sent
to the ruler of Ramafifia and concluded a treaty with him, as
Vijayabahu I had done before (80.6-7). :

30. Much more troubles were caused by the relations
with the Dravidian kingdoms in Southern India. Those with
the Pandus had generally a more friendly character than those
with the Colas. According to a half legendary tradition the
leader of the first Aryan immigrants, Vijaya, married a
daughter of the Pandu king in Madhura and his companions
married maidens of the same race (Mhwus. 7.48 sq.). In the
mediaeval period Mitta, the sister of Vijayabahu I (see above
para. 9), was given away in marriage to a Pandu prince, while
the wooing of the Cola king was refused, because the Cola
was not considered to be of equal. birth. Later intermarriages
between the royal families of the two countries are mentioned
above (para. 9). On the other hand already in the 9th century
the chronicle (50.12 sq.) gives an account of the incursion
into the island of a Pandu army by which palaces and temples
were plundered and destroyed _ and many treasures carried
away to India. The war was brought to an end by a treaty
concluded with the Sthala ruler by. the. envoys of des sora in

king.
3

156 WILHELM GEIGER

Sometimes the Paindus when they were in conflict with
the Colas sent messengers to the Sinhalese king or took refuge
with him and requested his assistance, as it happened in the
reign of Kassapa V (913-23 A.D.) and Dappula IV (Maus.
52.70 sq.: 53.5 sq.). In the 12th century the Pandu king
Pardkrama entreated the help of king Parakkamabahu
against Kulagekhara. As it was always in keeping with the
policy of the Sinhalese kings to support the Pandus in such
conflicts Parakkamabahu sent an army into Southern India.
The campaign is amply described in the Mahavamsa (76.86
sq.; 77.1-105), but the failure which overtook the expedition
after the initial success is concealed by the chronicler. (Cf.
Codrington, Short History of Ceylon, p. 62). At the end of
the 13th century a Pandu army invaded Ceylon during a
famine, took the stronghold Subhagiri and carried the Tooth
Relic, which was kept there, away. to India. The Sacred
Relic was brought back to Ceylon by king Parakkamabahu III
(90.43 sq.; 51 sq.).

But the most dangerous enemies of the Sinhalese were
the Colas. The history of Ceylon in ancient and mediaeval
times is filled with accounts of bloody struggles between the
Sihalas and the Colas, who invaded the island and devastated
it. Already in the 2nd century B.C. Elara came from the
Cola country and occupied Anuradhapura. Similar events
frequently occurred in later times. Often the northem pro-
vinces of the island were posssessed by the Damilas whilst
the Sihala kingdom was confined to Rohana. Such was the
state of things in the 10th and Ith centuries in the reigns of
king Udaya IV (Mhus. 53.42 sq.), of king Sena V (54.64 sq.)
and of king Mahinda V (56.1 sq.). The last was even taken
prisoner by the Colas and brought to India. About
1070 A.D, Vijayababu I succeeded in restoring the Sinhalese
kingdom (58.59). But we know that it was the fear of the
Cola invasions by which the Sinhalese kings were compelled
to transfer their residence from Anuradhapura to Pulatthi-
nagara and later on to such places as Jambuddoni in the south-
western province. The chronicle tells us that the Kannata
and the Cola kings gent ‘envoys with rich presents to king

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 157

Vijayabahu’s court. It is difficult to understand what the
purpose of that embassy was and how it ended. But the
messengers sent in return by the Sinhalese king to the court
of the Cola king were ill-treated and mutilated. Vijayabahu
declared war, but was prevented from carrying out his
plan by the mutiny of the Velakkara mercenaries in Pulatthi-
nagara (60.24 sq.).

In the [3th century the Pandus and Colas had again the
opportunity of meddling with the Sinhalese affairs (80.43 sq.).
But later on the relations had a different character. Buddhism
was apparently flourishing in the Cola country, and bhikkhus
betook themselves there from Ceylon or were summoned
by Sinhalese rulers to return therefrom to the island (31.20
sq.; 84.9-10; 89.67).

Vy
ie
ie
|
|
|

The Terminal Stupa of the SBarabudur
By Dr. J. PrzyLusx

Mr. Stutterheim’s researches, continued by M. Mus,
have brought to light the analogies which exist be-
tween the Barabudur, the mountain-temple of the Indian
Cakravartin, and the Assyro-babylonian ziggurrat. | have
endeavoured recently to lend more precision to these analo-
gies, and showed that all those monuments consist of three
parts: the tower of Babylon had a subterranean base, seven
stories, and a shrine on its top. Likewise, mount Meru, the
prototype of the mountain-temple, has an invisible base sur-
mounted by the mountain, which, in its turn, is crowned by
the palace of the gods. Again, the Barabudur has a base
concealed by a facing of masonry, seven. terraces and a ter-

minal stiipa.1 The question which | would now like to ex.

amine is the following: which was the deity worshipped in
the terminal stiipa of the Barabudur?

Theoretically, there is scarcely any doubt about the
answer. On the summit of the cosmic mountain sits the king
of the gods. The Cakravartin’s palace is the image of the
ged’s palace. The Barabudur, being both the cosmic and the
royal mountain, the personage who sits on its top must be
the summit of the religious and of the political hierarchy.
Thus he must be at the same time the Cakravartin-Buddha,
and the king-Cakravartin. We shall see that these politice-
religious ideas, having spread to the distant boundaries of
the Buddhist world, were given in the empire of the
Sailendras, a special character.

Several Buddhist siras, translated into Chinese, bear a
title which corresponds. to Brahmajéla-siiira. Here is the

| Les sept terrasses du Barabudur, article in the press in H/AS
(Harvard Journal of Asiatic Studies). |

THE TERMINAL STOPA OF THE BARABUDUR 159

full title of one of them: ‘Part ten of the Brahmajdla-sitra
where the Buddha Vairocana declares the ciftabhimi and the
éila of a Bodhisattva.’’ This text belongs to the Vinaya cate-
gery and has been partly edited and translated by De Groot
in 1893.2 We will call it by its Japanese title:
“Bommékyd.’ It was profoundly venerated in Japan. In
A.D. 753, the Bornmékyé was read in all the more important
temples.
“Bommakyé doctrines,” writes Prof. S. Elisseeff, ‘*as
well as Buddhist concepts in general profoundly influenced
the political ideas of the Emperor Shému. This Japanese
sovereign felt that the government should be organized in
conformity with this Buddhist text, where it is said that Locana
produces one thousand great Sakya, who are in their nirmana-
kaya; from. each of these Sakyas come forth millions of small
Sakyas, who simultaneously are preaching in all the millions of
worlds. In. this same way the Emperor occupies in Japan .
the supreme rank, corresponding to Locana Buddha; the
Imperial will is transmitted to the thousand officials, who in
the government organization can be considered representa-
tives of the Emperor, as the thousand great Sakyas are of
Locana. The subjects are compared to the millions of small
Sakyas. That the Emperor Shému identified himself with
the central deity is revealed by the fact that after the Sila-
samadana cerernony he took the Buddhist name Joman which
is nothing other than the Chinese translation of the Sanskrit
name Lecana. It was this sovereign who erected the Great.
Buddha and thus represented in sculpture a passage from. the
Bomméky6.
‘The casting of such a huge statue presented many —
technical difficulties and the. statuaries - succeeded | in their |

2 De Groot, Le Code du Mahayana: en Chine, in the Verhand.
der Konink. Akad. van Wetensch., Amsterdam, Mitt James R.. Ware,
Notes on ithe Fan Wang Ching, HJAS, -1,. 1, — pp: 156-161;
for a bibliography of the Japanese studies about - this text, . cf. 5.

Elisseeff, The Bommokyo and. the Great Buddha of Todaiji, —HIAS, ies ee

I, t, p. 84, n. 3.

160 J. PRZYLUSE!

work only after eight attempts. It was finished in 749, but
was not yet gilded. The Japanese authorities were anxious
to find the precious metal in Japan itself in order to gild
this great statue with national gold. At the beginning of the
year 749 gold had been discovered in northern Japan, The
Emperor Shému was extremely glad of this event and in the
fourth month went to Tédaiji accompanied by his family and
many officials, This same year the Emperor Shému ab-
dicated in order to devote himself to Buddhism.

vue The Great Buddha is the Great Enlightened; he is
the essence of Buddha in the Dharmadhatu (world).

aCe “The text of the Bommékyd says: ‘You, all
Buddha's children, hear me attentively; think well (about
my words) and make your conduct conform to it. [ have prac-
tised already for hundreds of incomputable kalpas the qua-
lities (of Bodhisattvas) and the stages (of perfection), and taken
them as my guide. At the beginning [| abandoned the
worldly (life) and attained samyak-sambodhi. I am called
Locana. | dwell on the lotus throne which contains the
worlds and oceans. [The grammar of this passage is obscure,
but the Japanese engraver has understood it thus]. This
throne is surrounded by one thousand petals. Each petal
being a world, it makes one thousand worlds. | metamor-
phose myself producing one thousand Sakyas, conforming to
the one thousand worlds. Further, on each petal which is a
world there are a hundred million Sumerus, a hundred million
suns and moons, a hurdred million worlds each in four parts,
a hundred million Jambudvipas, a hundred million Bedhi-
sattva-Sakyas, who are sitting under a hundred million bodhi
trees, each of them preaching the qualities and stages of a
Bodhisattva about which you have just inquired. Each
Sakya of the remaining nine hundred and ninety-nine Sakyas
produces ‘thousands and hundreds of millions of Sakyas, who
do the same. The Buddhas on the thousand petals are
transformations of myself, ‘and thousands and hundreds of
millions of Sakyas are the transformations of these thousand
Sakyas. I am their origin and my name is Locana Buddha.’
THE

JOURNAL

OF THE

GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

Vol. Itt (1936)

EDITED BY

U. N. GHOSHAL.

CALCUTTA.

Published by the Greater India Society.

sees
aia es
ries
wh.

geksiey

THE

JOURNAL OF THE GREATER INDIA SOCIETY
CONTENTS

Volume Hil, (1936)

Articles Pages:
Archaeological Explorations on the neck of Khair
Khaneh (near Kabul),

By Dr. J. Hackin vs = «23

Contributions from the Mahdvamsa to our inowledie
of the Mediaeval culture of Ceylon (II)

By Dr. Wilhelm Geiger ae win: 439
Date of ISanavarman Il

By Dr. George Qoedés oe coe | 65
Greater India and the Work of Sylvain Lévi,

By Dr. J. Przyluski... vat .. «18
Kalinga Dynasty of Ceylon, — . :

By Mr. S. Paranavitana i vi E07
Kufijarakufijadega and the Changal Inscription,

By Dr. Bahadur Chand Chhabra... ie
Literary and Epigraphic Notes, - 4

By Mr. Himansu Bhusan Sarkar, vis a <)08:
Malay, ey

By Dr. R.C. Majumdar si sss ace 86
Non-Aryan elements in Indo-Aryan, | !

By Dr. Suniti Kumar Chatterji en ae, &,
Old-Javanese Korawasrama, oe

By Dr. J.-L. Swellengrebel bay oe OP
Pragasti, 7 : ty

By Pandit Vidhushekhara Bhattacharye pee:
Some Hindu relics i in Borneo, 00 eles teen
By Mr. O. C. Gangoly’ ee paver ren - oe ede fee Oe

| ii |

Source of, and a parallel to, Dionysius on the Beautiful,

By Dr. A. K. Coomaraswamy ve we 36
Sources of the Art of Srivijaya,

By Mr. Devaprasad Ghosh : we | “SBD
Source of the Old-Javanese Ramayana Beet auntie

By Mr. Manomohan Ghosh bee we «ENB
South Indian Portrait Bronze from Sumatra,

By Prof. K. A. Nilakanta Sastri... we «6104
Sylvain Lévi and the Science of Indology,

By Dr. Kalidas Nag... mn. ££ 3
Terminal Stipa of the Barabudur,

By Dr. J. Przyluski i wa 158
Veda and Avesta (II), )

By Dr. Batakrishna Ghosh _ eee

Alphabetical List of contributors
Bhattacharya, Pandit Vidhushekhara,

Pragasti... wes ats :. I
Chatterji, Dr. Suniti Kumar,
Non-Aryan Elements in Indo-Aryan Sia 43

Chhabra, Dr. Bahadur Chand,
Kufijarakuftjadega and the Changal Inscription
Coedés, Dr. George, |
Date of Ianavarman II: The Inscription of
Téol kul (Province of Méng, Cambodia)... 65
Coomaraswamy, Dr. A. K.,
The source of, and a parallel to, Dionysius

on the Beautiful... ees ves 36
Gangoly, Mr. O. C., | .
On some Hindu relics in Borneo ... med o7

Geiger, Dr. Wilhelm, —
Contributions from the Mahdvamsa to our
knowledge ti, the pieciceuts culture of
Ceylon (I). ee ee aot we ‘£39
Ghosh, Dr. Batalatchnai OL ee
Veda and Avesta HT) was a

re nce a RT MRR
: [ ii ] :

Ghosh, Mr. Devaprasad,
Sources of the Art of Srivijaya «.. b. 50
Ghosh, Mr. Manomohan,
On the Source of the Old-Javanese Ramayana
Kakawin see > ree Bic)
Hackin, Dr. J.,

Archaeological explorations on the neck of

Khair Khaneh (near Kabul)... we 23
Majumdar, Dr. R.C,
The Malay _ ees vee 86

Nag, Dr. Kalidas,

Sylvain Lévi and the Science of Indology ... 3
Paranavitana, Mr. 5

The Kalinga Dynasty of Ceylon ... wee 57
Przyluski, Dr. J.,

Greater India and the Work of Sylvain Lévi ... 18

be The Terminal Stipa of the Barabudur .. =
Fe Sarkar, Mr. Himansu Bhusan, |
: Literary and Epigraphic Notes ..- Dee) tae

Sastri, Prof. K. A. Nilakanta,

A South Indian Portrait Bronze from Sumatra 104
E Swellengrebel, Dr. J. L.,
; On the Old-Javanese KorawaSrama - oe 6/

Comment and Criticism!
(i) ‘‘The study of Javanese literature in India”’
By Mr. Himansu Bhusan ord
Gi) A Correction

By Mr, Himansu Bhusan Sirkat eeu =

4 Notices of Books. = 118, 224
3 W. F. STUTTERHEIM, iain ‘Influences in Old-

B Balinese Art (O. C. Gangoly); K. A. NILAKANTA
SASTRI, The Colas (U.N. Ghoshal); HARI PRASAD
SHASTRI, Teachings from the Bhagavad-Gita (Mahendra
Nath Sarkar); |. GONDA, The Javanese Version of the |
Bhagavad-Gitd, (S.K.De) ;. BM. GOSLINGS,. Gidsinbet
Volkenkunde Museum, XIll, (H.B. Sarkar) ; “J.-PH.

[ w ]

DUYVENDAK, Inleiding tot de ethnologie van de In-
dische Archipel (H. B. Sarkar); R.H. VAN GULIK,
Hayagriva, The Mantrayanic Aspect of Horse-cult in
China and Japan, (J. N. Banerjea) ; J. GONDA, Agastya-
parwa, (H. B. Sarkar); Koninklijke Vereeniging Kolo-
niaal Instituut, (H. B. Sarkar); ELIZABETH SHARPE,
The India that is India, (K. N.}; HARI PRASAD
SHASTRI, Book of Ram: The Bible of India (K.N.)

Obituary Notice :—
Dr. E. Obermiller oe Th. Seay 21

Notes... _— ee - wa 214
Extracts from the Annual Report of the aSioty
for the year 1985-36... . .. 214

Publications of cognate interest in other Journals ... 219
THE TERMINAL STOPA OF THE BARABUDUR 161

“This great Buddha in the Tédaiji is represented sitting
on a lotus throne. On each petal of the lotus flower is repre-
sented one of the thousand great Sakyas who are the emana-
tions of Locana.”’

On the upper part of the petal is engraved the picture of
the Great Sakya, who is sitting on a throne and preaching.
Under his throne is represented the Grand Chiliocosm. The
engraver has depicted the ariipyadh@tu, the rapadhatu and
the kamadhdaiu. In the lowest part of the petal is engraved
the Sumeru world with mount Sumeru in the middle. ‘This
mountain has four terraces. On the bottom of the petal is
engraved a sea. The statue of the Great Buddha was ins-
pired by the passage translated above from the Bommékyé;
the details on the petals, inspired by other sétras and Sastras,
are there to show the relation of the whole world from nor
below up to the Great Enlightened Deity.*

The whole monument proves that an exact symmetry
reigned between the state organization and the religious cos-
mology in the Japanese Buddhism cf the 8th century. The
two organizations are correlative and this is why the emperor
identifies himself with the central deity, taking the name of
Locana.

In Weltbild und Bauform Sudostasiens, M. von Heine-
geldern has noted the application of similar principles in the
Indo-Chinese and Indonesian kingdoms. The Burmese look
upon the pradsdda which roofs the throne-room at Mandalay as
the centre of the world. It is to imitate Indra that the
Indonesian and Indo-Chinese kings had thirty-two vassals.
and it is probably in view of an assimilation with Sudargana,
the city of the gods, that the capital of the kingdom was
sometimes provided with 32 doors which corresponded to
the 32 divisions of the kingdom. As a matter of fact, the
Glass Palace-Chronicle of the kings of Burma says that the
city of Sriksetra has Paar drawn Paes after the model of

3 §. Elisseeff, The Bommaka and the Great Buddha of Be ce
HJAS, 1, t, pp. 88-95.

4
4)
ue
4

162 Jj. PRZYLUSKI

Sudaréana.* In Burma, the king and his 32 vassals identify
themselves with Indra, chief of the group of the Thirty-three
gods, just as in Japan the emperor, surrounded by his digni.
taries, identifies himself with Locana in the middle of the
1,000 Great Sakyas.

The Chinese messenger Tcheou Ta-kouan, speaking of
the Bayon which is in the centre of Angkor, the capital of the
old Cambodia, said: “To mark the centre of the kingdom
there is a gold tower, surrounded by more than twenty stone
rowers.”® The Bayon, then, must have been, to use Heine-
geldem’s own expression, the magical centre of the
kingdom.” Erected in the centre of Angkor, this temple
is made of some fifty towers, linked together by galleries.
Each tower bears, looking towards each point of the com-
pass, four big stone faces crowned by diadems. Im the
ground of the big tower, the idol which was worshipped in
the centre of the Bayon, has been found: a Buddha three
meters high, in which M. Ccedés recognizes the image of
the Devaraja, that is to say, of the God-King. In-the Sivite
sanctuaries, the Devaraja was the great linga of the kingdom;
worshipped in the central temple of the capital, he personi-
fied both the king of the gods and the king of men. In the
Bayon, the central temple of Angkor, the Devaraja is per-
sonified by the great statue of the Buddha, venerated in the
great central tower. In this image, both the Great En-
lightened and the sovereign of Cambodia are represented.
As to the stone faces which adorn the fifty towers, epigraphy
tells us that they stand for a whole pantheon of deities, Brah-.
manical as well as Buddhist: Visnu, Siva, Parvati, the

Medicine Buddha, the Lion of the Sakyas.®

4 Pe Maung Tin and Luce, Glass Palace Chronicle, Oxford, 1932, pp.
14-15; Heine-Geldern, Welfbild und Bauform, pp. 45 ff. P. Mus,
Barabudur, BEFEO, 33, pp. 701 f.

5 P. Pelliot, Mémoire sur les coutumes du Cambodge, BEFEO,
2, p. 142. as cig a a

6 G. Ceedés, Notice archéologique du Bayon, in Dufour-Carpeaux,
Le Bayon d’Angkor-Thom, Paris, 1914, t. Tl, p. 30.
PO ae

THE TERMINAL. STOPA OF THE BARABUDUR 163

In a recent communication to the Academy of Inscrip-
tions, M. P. Mus, having exposed those facts, proposed a
clever explanation for them. ‘‘Four faces,”’ says M. Mus,
“Yesume space entirely because they mark the four principal
directions......", “‘Brahma& does not possess four heads, his
face is just one and it can be seen from everywhere. Four
orients are the whole of space. Four faces are the symbol
of a power which reigns over space.”” And M. Mus adds

that the Great Buddhist Miracle proceeds ina large way

from similar ideas. He quotes a part of the Avatarnsaka-
stitra where the Buddha of the Great Miracle is compared to
Brahma. ‘‘He is like the Great King Brahma, who rests in
his palace of the Brahma world, whilst everywhere, in the
numberless thousands of worlds, bodies of Brahma can. yet be
seen.” 2 |

M. Mus concludes that when the architect represented a
four-faced personage on the Bayon towers, he wanted to
figure ‘‘the royal power blessing the four orients of the
country."’ But why, then, this multiplicity of gods who are
worshipped in the Bayon towers? We know that Jayavar-
man VII, who built the temple, “‘bore a special reverence
to the Bodhisattva Lokeévara, alias Avalokiteégvara. Now,
the Lotus of the Good Law, a fundamental text, endows this
personage with a faculty to assume all kinds of shapes, so
that he may gather knowledge and save the creatures. He
shall borrow, whenever it is useful, the features of a Buddha.
But there is a particle of Truth, a primitive impulse towards
Good in every cult, and AvalokiteSvara shall be, according
to his will, either a great or a middle or a small Brahmanic
god,...... Appearing to each man under the exact shape of
the god whom he worships and One, however, under this
diversity, does not Lokeévara deserve fully the name of
Samantamukha, ‘face everywhere’, given to him by the book,
and which is inspired by the power formerly ascribed to
Brahma ?.........Jt is because he has a part in the dharmakdaya
that Lokeévara enjoys his transcendental powers. Jayavar-

7 Taissho Issaikyo, no. 278, Vol. IX, p. 618b, nea

164 J. PRZYLUSKI

man wants to associate with him. Together with Lokeévara,
in Lokeévara, in every place where his subjects adore a god,
at Vajrapura, at Chok Gargyar, the king is this god. In the
whole universe, Lokeévara,—over entire Cambodia, Jayavar-
man,—the Bodhisattva and the king are equally ‘face every-
where’. And if the monument, by the disposition of its
shrines, is like a positive map of the country, it is only to
the scope of illustrating, and perhaps of contributing to
assure magically, the penetration of the king’s subtle essence
all over the kingdom.’"®

These conclusions are illuminating. One point only is
open to a slight criticism. If Lokegvara assumes the shape
of a Brahmanical god as well as that of a Buddha, it is not
because “‘there is a particle of truth’’ in the Brahmanic, reli-
gion as in the Buddhist, but rather because Indian gods are
Brahmanic and Buddhist at the same time. In all periods,
and more particularly in, that of the Mahayana, Buddhism is
a syncretism where the Brahmanic mythology comes in for
an important part. This is why Lokegvara, who has so
many points in common with Siva, is the king of the gods like
him, or rather each god is just another shape of Siva-
Lokeévara.

‘We. are, now, in a much better position to understand
the Buddhalogy of the Barabudur, because the religion which
fin'ds its expression in, this monument, is also a syncretism
where Sivaism and, Mahayanistic Buddhism are mingled to-
gether. The three upper terraces of the Barabudur bear, as
we have said, 72 small sfipas, with a 73rd and bigger stipa
in the middle. The identities of the personages carved in
these stipas have been much discussed. According to
Dr. Krom, above the five Dhyani-buddhas which are seen
on the square terraces, it is their chief, Vajrasattva = Vajra-
dhara, who was worshipped in the stiipa of the circular ter-
races. This opinion has been criticized by M. Mus. The

8 P. Mus, Le symbolism a Anghor:Thom tle “Grand Miracle’
du Bayon, in Compie rendu de l’Académie des Inscriptions et Belles
Lettres, sitting of the 21st February, 1936, =

a eae

‘s
%

is
/

THE TERMINAL STOPA OF THE BARABUDUR 165

latter objects that Vajrasattva, the chief of the five Dhyani-
buddhas, does not appear in the older layer of the redaction of
the Sang hyang Kamahdyadnikan. He comes in the more
recent layer of this treatise only, and not, even then, as a
sixth Dhyani-buddha, but as a substitute for Aksobhya.®
Besides, M. Toganoo believes that the Buddha of the ter-
minal stipa of the Barabudur is Aksobhya, and for him the
Buddhas of the 72 small sitipas are Vairocana, and the sym-
bols of the 72 tantric gunas.*°

Does it seem possible to offer a solution which would
comply with the suggestions and the criticisms of the three
archaeologists? We must not forget that there is a close link
between Aksobhya and Vajrasattva: on the crown worn. by
the latter, there is a face of Aksobhya. Vajrasattva is one of
the shapes of Aksobhya: he is Aksobhya in his sambhoga-
kdya.' It will no doubt be admitted that the Buddha of the
terminal stipa, like the Great Buddha of Tédaiji, is the Great
Enlightened, the essence of the Dharmadhatu, prefiguration
of the Adibuddha of Nepal. Under what name was he vene-
rated at the Barabudur? He may have been known as
Aksobhya by some of the faithful. If the terminal stapa
contained Aksobhya in his dharmakdya, the Buddha of the
72 smaller stiipas would be Aksobhya in his sambhogakdya.

The names of the personages, however, are here of
minor consequence. The main point is to admit that the
Buddhas of the 72 small stiipas are the manifestations of the
same essence which has its symbol in the Buddha of the ter-
minal sfiipa. And this brings us back to the symbolism of
the Tadaiji and of the Bayon, but at the Barabudur, the sym-
bolism is more complex and announces already the
Adibuddha system of Nepal, for at Barabudur the essence of
the dharmadhdtu is shown under three hypostasis : the
Buddha of the terminal stipe, the Buddha of the 72 small

9 P. Mus, ibid., pp. 350-351. ' Sie ;
10 See Report by M.. Demieville. in  iingaphie bouddhigne v,
no. 450. die
11 P. Mus, ibid., p. 351,000 0) |

166 . J. PRZYLUSKI

stiipas and those of the square terraces. These three hypos-
tasis remind us not only of the three kdyas of the Buddha,
but not the system of Nepal also: Adibuddha, Dhynj-
buddha, Manusi-buddha.

Before we proceed any further in our study of the simili-
tudes between the several systems, it is necessary to examine
an evident difference. At the Tédaiji, the Great Sakyas
which surround the central Buddha are 1000 in number In
Burma, the number which defines the royal and divine
court is 33 (1432). At the Bayon, there are some fifty
towers. At Barabudur, the symbolical number is 73 (14-72).

For Mr. Toganoo, this last number is explained by
the fact that there are 72 tantric gunas. But this number may
also have been suggested by iconography, or in regard to
architectural symmetry. Two explanations offer themselves,
not at all irreconcilable.

The three circular terraces of the Barabudur may be
seen from four sides, as the basis of the monument is a
pyramid. The terraces becoming smaller and smaller, the
little stdpa that could be placed upon them had to get fewer
in number: eight on the lower terrace, six on the middle one,
four on the upper terrace, that is 8-+6+4=18 for each side,
and a total of 18x4=72. The reason of an architectural
symmetry might then account for the number 72.

_ Besides, at the beginning of the Saddharmapundarika, a
ray of light issues from the circle of hair which grew between
the Bhagabat’s eyebrows. This ray is directed towards the
18,000 countries of the Buddha situated om the east.’” 16,000
countries for one. of the four orients make a total of 72,000
countries of the Buddha. The disposition, at the Barabudur,
of the 72 small sifipas around the terminal stiipa is identical
with that of the 72,000 countries of the universe around the
centre of the world. It seems likely that the architect, not
being able to represent the 72,000 Buddhas who reside in the
72,000 countries, has satished himself by putting in 72 only,

12 Saddharmapundarika, f. 4b., cf, transl. by Burnouf, p. 4.
THE TERMINAL STOPA OF THE BARABUDUR 167

in order to suit both convenience and symmetry. 72 and
72,000 are just conventional numbers, chosen to give an idea
of the numberless manifestations of the Great Enlightened.
Likewise, when the sculptures show Avalokiteévara with
forty arms, when the texts call him Awalokitegvara of the
thousand arms, 40 and 1000 are conventional numbers again,
designed to mark the numerous activities of the god.**

Whether he has 33 shapes as in Burma, 50 shapes as at
the Bayon, 73 as we see at the Barabudur or 1001 as at the
Tadaiji, the essence of the dharmadhdtu ig always the Great
One and Only which fills up the universe. At Java, as in
Indo-China, as in Japan, the sovereign identifies himself with
him. That is why in the empire of the Sailendras, the name
Sailendra belongs to both the king.and the king of the gods.
Sailendra then, could mean not only the dynasty, but Siva-
Buddha also, who was the highest entity in the Javanese reli-
gion. We know enough now to engage upon the study of
an obscure question. Which was the statue contained in the
terminal stipa of the Barabudur?

The point is a strongly contested one. The first
European visitors have not seen anything below the. terminal
stiipa, all blocked up by scattered fragments. In 1842, Resi-
dent Hartmann ordered excavations to be made, no authen-
tical report of which has reached us, and an unfinished statue
of Buddha would have been discovered then in the ruins.
M. Foucher has proposed to recognize in this statue a
reproduction of the famous one seen by Hiuan-tsang on the
actual place of the Bodhi.’* This statue, which . showed
Sakyamuni in the moment of the Maravijaya, was also an
unfinished statue. On the contrary, Dr. Krom thinks that
originally the stdpa contained no image whatever, and that.
some relics had only been put there. Dr. Stutterheim
believes that the stiipa contained the unfinished statue of a
supreme and bodiless Buddha. M. Mus does not’ see: that

13. About the statues of AvalokiteSvara, the thousand arms of which
are customarily represented by forty, ef. Waley, A Catalogue of paint-
ings recovered from Tun huang by Sir A. Stein; p. 31... ok

14 The unfinished Buddha of the Boro-Budur, BEFEO, + 3, pp. 78-80.

168 , J. PRZYLUSKI

the identification proposed by M. Foucher should be
damaged radically by Dr. Krom’s objection.’

In short, the authors hesitate between two hypotheses :
(1) there was no statue at all in the terminal stiipa, (2) there
was an unfinished statue, the same which Dr. Krom des-
cribes as a ‘‘rough lump, thicker at one side than the other."’
Both hypotheses seem hardly likely. I wish to be allowed
the suggestion of a third one.

According to Indian tradition, mount Meru is a mountain
of gold. In the inscriptions of Cambodia the royal mount is
of gold’ also. The central tower of the Bayon is called by
Tcheou ta kouan, the gold tower. The ideas of gold and the
cosmic mountain are closely bound together. As it was im-
possible to make a real gold mountain, would not the idea
have arisen of replacing it by a lump of gold, placed at the
centre of the world? Let us recall to mind the importance
of the gold coating on the great statue of the Tédaiji. The
Japanese authorities were anxious to find the precious metal
in Japan. National gold was necessary in order to realize
the mystical union of the empire with the Great Enlightened.
It was desirable, then, that there should be in' the centre of
the empire a statue of gold, or at least of gilded bronze,
because it was the point wherefrom the power radiates
which creates the cosmic and the social order.

This theory finds its confirmation in a Chinese text rela-
tive to the empire of San-fo-ts’i. It is extracted from the
Cha fan Chi of Chau Ju-kua written in 1226. “There is an
idol (literally ‘‘a Buddha’’) which is called the idol of the
Mountain of Gold and Silver. Its statue is cast in gold.
Each king just before mounting the throne, causes his own
image to be cast in gold to replace that statue. Vases and
plates of gold are made and solemn homage is paid to that
image. The golden statue, the vases and plates, all of them
bear inscriptions so that the future generations may not
destroy them.”"* The Mountain of Gold and Silver could

15 Statement of the controversy in P. Mus, Barabudur, t. 32, pp. 344 ff.

16 aie and aipaesion relative to this quotation in JG/S.,
H, 1, pp. 35. 36.

THE TERMINAL STOPA OF THE BARABUDUR 169

only be the cosmic mountain, or its replica. The emperor
being identified with the king of the gods must be enthroned
on the cosmic mountain: that is why his golden statue is
placed on the top of it and he is worshipped there. What
Chau Ju-kua writes in 1226 about the king of San-fo-ts i,
alludes to politico-religious concepts which lie at the origin
of the Barabudur. Then it is likely that the statue placed in
the terminal stipa was a gold statue, and this might suffice
to account for its disappearance.

Besides, some narrations, the origins of which are not
certain, accuse Resident Hartmann of having found a little
gold statue in the stiipa, and of having stolen it: he would
have put the big unfinished statue at the same place in order
to divert suspicion.’” This is not the place to judge Resi-
dent Hartmann for such an accusation. But it not infre-
quently happens that some such legend hundreds of years old
is asctibed much later to a recent date. This explains how
some old traditions relative to the theft of the statue may
have been put down finally to the credit of the 1842
excavations. .

In short the Barabudur is a reduction of the cosmic
mountain surmounted by 73 stipas. Consequently, it is difh-
cult to look upon, itas only a stiipa. At any rate it is widely
different from the old Indian stipa. It is an, imperial cons-.
truction designed, like the Great Buddha of Todaiji, to seal
the mystical union of the empire and of the universe. The
emperor, king of the mounts (Sailendra), identifies himself
with the supreme deity in the central stipa. This Devaraja
ig at the same time Akgobhya, Bhattara Buddha and Siva-
Buddha, Under which one of those names was he more
generally adored? It is impossible to tell. But we must”
refrain from simplifying the Barabudur. The central deity
must have been conceived in a different way by the initiated
and by the humble subjects of the kingdom. It. is per-
missible to suppose that different names corresponded to. the
different concepts. three eh ee ea x

Kunjarakunjadesa of the Changal Inscription
By Dr. B. Ch, Chhabra

It is now over half a century since the stone inscription of
king Safijaya was discovered at Changal, Central Java, and
first published by the famous Dutch Indologist, Prof, H.
Kern.? It has since been further commented upon on
various occasions. The epigraph is fairly well preserved,
except that the slab has chipped off at a few places, causing
short gaps in some lines of the writing. While the main
purport of the record, namely the establishment of a Sivalinga
by king Safijaya, is clear, the lacunae in the text have given
rise to some controversy over certain points of historic import.

I have elsewhere? had occasion to point out a few
changes in, Prof. Kern’s reading, which might necessitate a
modification in the generally accepted interpretation of this
document. In the present paper, | draw attention to one
such alteration.

Verse 7 of the inscription describes the island of Java
(yavadvipa).® In the second pada, two or three syllables
have been lost. Consequently the sense of that portion is
not clear. In the third quarter, while some three. aksaras are
likewise missing, some others have been blurred. Still Prof.
Kern has deciphered that part. His reading is: Srimat-

1 Bijdragen, dee! 10, 1885, with a facsimile; Verspr. Geschr. deel
7, pp. 115-128.

2 JASB (Letters), Vol. 1, 1935, pp. 34-37, with a photographic re-
production of the inscription,

3 The following is the text given by Prof. Kern :

sata grat qareqagean( = )fecterfaai
aryed eraReRgAt — — atorfrag [1x J
drepereer cutee |e arigearad
eae RTT ATTA FATT
KUSJARAKUSJADESA OF THE CHANGAL INSCRIPTION 171

kuftijarakufijadega-nihi[tava] nédditivddhrtam. It is this line
that we are to discuss here.

lt may be shown that the latter half of the above reading
is hardly tenable. First the word nihita does not very well
suit the supposed sense. Besides, the metre requires a long
syllable where a simple [te] has been suggested. The next
conjecture[va]nsdd is equally unconvincing. Even if we
accept it as right, the following iti is inexplicable. The suc-
ceeding iva likewise does not strike us as quite appropriate.
Finally the word ddhriam has little sense. It is not met with
in any Sanskrit work, though it cam be conceived to possess
a derivative sense of the word ddhdra. It will, however, be
seen that Prof. Kern has taken this ddhrtam to be an equi-
valent of Ghriam.

Nevertheless, the above reading has passed as final, and
on its interpretation various inferences have been based,
which must necessarily be wrong, if the very text is incorrect.

In accordance with his reading, Prof. Kern translates the
passage as follows: “‘and brought over from the
<<race>>, as one calls it, established in the blessed land
Kuiftjarakuiijadega.”™* |

This phrase has thus been understood to qualify the Siva
sanctuary (gambhoh sthdnam) mentioned in; the last quarter
of the verse. Prof. Krom, while commenting upon. this,
points out that it is impossible to have transported an entire
temple from a distant land, as the above translation, would
suggest. He passes over this difficulty by taking into account
the word iva which Prof. Ker seems to have left untrans-
lated.’ His explanation is thus: “as if it were brought over”
as against Prof. Kern's ‘‘brought over.” In this way Prof.
Krom concludes that the Siva temple of Java was not literal.

Fa

4 The original Dutch being “‘(en) overgebracht van. den in’t
gezegende land Kuifijarakufijadega gevestigden <atam>, gelijk men het
noemt,”" ig He lethal Sw Bh sneer aes

5 Or perhaps Prof. Kern's “as one calls it” (geligk. men -het noemt)
answers to iftva rather than to.iti only. ie Ss F Pytalek, aie

172 B. CH, CHHABRA

ly imported from Kufijarakufijadesa, but was modelled upon
one then existing in that land.‘

This questiom of a Siva sanctuary being “brought over’’
has, on, the other hand, suggested to Dr. Bosch’ another idea.
He sees an analogy between the Devaraja cult of Kambodia,
a similar tradition in Campa and the present instance in
Java. He thinks that there is a close connexion between
Siva, his linga, the ruling dynasty and a priest. The king
represents Siva and his majesty the linga, while the priest
plays the part of a mediator who receives the primeval linga
and hands it over to the founder of the dynasty as a palla-
dium. Dr. Bosch supposes Agastya to be the priest in the
case of king Safijaya.

While in Holland during the years 1931-34, [| had
occasion to examine a photograph and a few estampages of
the Changal inscription at the Kern Institute, Leyden. |
read the passage in question as follows: Srimatkufijara-
kufijadegani- — — — ngaditirthavriam. This sounds, no doubt,
absolutely different from what Prof. Kern has read. Still |
venture to offer what I read from the impressions, and |
remember Prof. Vogel agreed with my reading. I do not
hazard filling the blank for three syllables. Seeing nAgddi-
tirtha®, however, one feels tempted to supply a ga before it
and read Gafgdditirthdurtam, And this is not impossible,
considering that the word gangd has been used to indicate
any holy river as well as the Ganges, the well-known Bhiagt-
rathi. The aksara after ni has been read as hi, whereas to me
it looks more like si or pi. The next syllable has totally
disappeared,

The altered reading would yield quite a different sense,
namely: “‘surrounded by the holy places, Gang& and so
forth." And if this is accepted, then neither Prof. Krom's
explanation nor Dr. Bosch's inference would prevail any
longer.

6 N. J. Krom, Hindoe-Javcansce Geschiedenis, 2nd edition, the

Hague, 1931, p. 124...

7 Ibid., and Tide, deel 4, ree pp. 236 &. and 271
KUNJARAKUNJADESA OF THE CHANGAL INSCRIPTION 173

In my opinion, the above clause has to be taken to
qualify yavaduipam “‘the Island of Java’’ rather than
gambhoh sthaénam ‘‘the Siva sanctuary’ of the verse. In
this case the word dvrtam may better be rendered by
‘studded with’ or “‘abounding in.”

It will, however, remain obscure, in what relation the
foregoing Srimatkufijarakufijadega stands unless and until
the succeeding three aksaras be properly restored. Probab-
ly the missing word was one indicating comparison. On this
surmise we may explain the passage thus: “(the excellent
island of Java was) as abounding in holy places like Ganga
and so forth, as the blessed land of Kufijarakufja.”

It may be noted that Dr. Bosch brought in Agastya, even
though the Changal inscription makes no mention of this
sage. However, his association has been sought through
the occurrence of Kufijarakufijadega. Prof. Kern, by way
of identification, referred to the Kufijara or Kufijaradari of
the Harivaméa (st. 12393). This is, as has been pointed out
by Prof. Kern, a region somewhere in South India, where
there are a mountain created by Siva and the abode of the
sage Agastya. It may be observed that the worship of
Agastya has been as popular in Java as in South India.
This fact strongly favours Prof. Kern's identification.

Kuiijaradart has later been located on the boundary of
the Travancore State and the Tinnevelly district in the ex-
treme south of India, on the authority of the Brhatsamhita
(XIV, 16).°

According to Messrs. Gangoly and Prapladki Kufijara-
kufijadesa is ‘‘a sacred site in Southern India on the banks

of the Tungabhadra.’”*

8 CEé. N. J. Krom,’ Hindoe-Javaansche Geschiedenis, 2nd edition, the
Hague, 1931, p. 125.

9 See above, Vol. Il, p. 35; cf. oO. Cc. Garigaty; The Art of Java, p. 4.
Mr, Lakshminarayan Rao has kindly directed my attention to Anegondi,
once the capital of Vijayanagara kings, at ‘present the headquarters of
a Zamindari owing allegiance to the Nizam of Hyderabad, situated on the
north bank of the river Tutgabhadra. In some Sanskrit inscriptions of
the 14th century this place is called Kanieabonsy, a  Titeral eerie of

174 B,.CH. CHHABRA

Prof. Nilakanta Sastri, however, supports the former view
and opposes the latter, arguing that ‘‘the Brhatsamhitd locates
the Kufijaradart along with the Tamraparni.’’!°

In fact the Brhatsamhitd does not locate any country, but
gives, in six stanzas (XIV, 11-16), a jumbled list of the regions
of South India. The statement: Kaccho’tha Kufijaradari
sa-Tdmraparniti vijfieyah, does not, therefore, necessarily
indicate that Kufijaradari is situated between Kaccha and
Tamraparnt. While this last mentioned refers to the well-
known, river of that name in the Tinnevelly district, no place
is known as Kaccha in the same vicinity. We know of one
Kaccha (Cutch) which is in the Bombay Presidency, to the
north-west of Gujarat.

Bhatta Utpala, in his commentary Viorti on the Brhat-
samhita, quotes Paragara who has drawn up a similar list of
the countries, peoples, mountains and rivers of South India.
This list is in prose and follows a different order of enumera-
tion, yet not the successive. Here Kaccha is followed by
Bharukaccha and Tamraparna by Narmada, while Kufijara-
dari stands between Sarpaparvaia and Sambhogavati"

_ The same commentator explains Kujijaradari by Hasti-
khanda. This shows that the territory might have been
known under other equivalent names as well. On this
ground the whole range of “‘the Anaimalais, or elephant hills,
which extend from the Coimbatore district southward into
Travancore’ comes into consideration. The word ‘Anai-
malai’ is Tamil as well as Kanarese and is an equivalent of
the Sanskrit Kufijaraparvata. In the Sanskrit literature,
however, this range goes under the name of Malayagiri.
Ptolemy calls it Bettigo." ‘‘In the southem portion of the

the Kanarese Anegondi, Cf. Epigraphia Carnatics, Vol. X, p. 299; A
collection of the inscriptions on copper-plates and stones in the Nellore
District, Madras, pt. 1, p. 120; Ind. Ant, Vol. XXXVI, 1909, p. 89.

10 Tijdscrift, deel LXXV, 1935, p. 611.

I}. Vizianagaram Sanskrit Series, No, 12, Brhatsamhit#?, with the
commentary of Bhatjotpala, edited hae Mon. Bacganete Dvivedi, Benares,
1895, p. 289, Pi et ,
KUSJARAKUNJADESA OF.THE CHANGAL INSCRIPTION 175

ghats is the conical peak called Agastyamalai. (6,200 feet),
where the sage Agastya Maharshi, who is regarded as the
pioneer of Aryan) civilisation in Southern India, is supposed
still to live as a Yogi in pious seclusion.”?? The Tamil term
Podigei or Pothigei denotes the same peak.  ‘‘The
Tdmraparni river rises on the slopes of .Agastyamalai, and
reaches the plains of the Tinnevelly district by the falls of
Papanagam.......... This is a very sacred spot, with a Saivite
temple, and is visited by large numbers of pilgrims.’’**

It may now be shown that the summit Agastyamalai
is the same as Kufijaraparvata. Among the different mean-
ings assigned to the word Kufjara, one finds the following
in the Sabdakalpadruma: “‘degabhedah/ iti Sabdaratnavalt/ /
(parvvatavigesah// yatha Goh Raémdayane, IV, 41, 50: “‘tatah
Sakradhvajakadrah  Kufijaro ndma  parvvatah{/ Agastya-
bhavanam tatra nirmmitam Vigvakarmmana’’).”’ I have had
no access to the criginal sources quoted here; still it will be
seen that the details given in the- above stanza remarkably
coincide with Mr. Thurston's foregoing description of the
Agastyamalai.

The Bombay edition of Valmiki’s Ramayana (IV, 41,
34.36) gives a slightly variant reading."= The commentary on
the verse 35 points out that this Agastya-bhavana on the
Kufjaraparvata is the third place associated with Agastya,
as occurring in the Ramayana. As regards the other two,

12 E. Thurston, The Madras Presidency, Cambridge, 1914, p. 18.

13. McCrindle’s Ancient India.ag described by Ptolemy, edited by
5. N. Majumdar Sastri Calcutta, 1927, p. 78; Nundo Lal Dey, The
Geographical Dictionary of Ancient and. Matinee India, 2nd edition.
1927, p 122, under Malaya-Giri.

14 E. Thurston, The Madras residence, Cimibaldze,: i914, p. 130..

15 The Ramayana of Valmiki with the commentary (Tilaka) of
Rama, 4th edition, Nirnaya Sagar Press, Bombay, 1930, IV, 4], 34-36:

aa Asaareree: get aT gaa: v3 YN
sneered aa fafad Gator |
at path ee | uae oh Salty ah

176 B. CH. CHHABRA

one is a little to the south of Paficavat?, the modern Nasik,
not far from the source of the river Godavart,** while the other
may Pe somewhere on the mount Malaya, near the Kaveri
river.!

It may be remembered that in the Raémdyaona different
countries are mentioned on, the occasion when Sugriva sends
out monkeys in all directions in quest of Sité. One may,
therefore, expect that the narrative follows the successive
order of the regions mentioned. This, however, does not
seem to be the case. It may be seen that Agastya occurs
twice in the same chapter, once on the mount Malaya, and
for the second time on the Kuftjaraparvata as stated above.
The former is followed immediately by a description of the
river Taémraparni,'® while the latter by that of the city Bhoga-
vati.’® This last is apparently identical with the Sambhogavatt
of Par&éara's list. Moreover it appears from the Ramdyana
that the Kufijaraparvata wee situated somewhere in the ocean,
beyond Ravana’s country.”°

16 Most probably it is the same as the modern Agastipuri, twenty-
four miles to the south-east of Nasik. Cf. Nundo Lal Dey, The
Geographicel Dictionary of Ancient and Mediaeval India, ind edition,
1927, p. 217. Rama's visit to this hermitage of Agastya is described in
the Ramayana, Ill, chs. 11-13.

17 Cf. the Ramayana, IV, 41, 15-16:

aa err aN frearcatird: |
eure AAT HATE TSHTT? NGA
PEC DMCC CCIM E OLUraL tket tae

18 Ibid., IV, 41, 16-18:
AAAI: TIT ARIAT 1 9¥
amret reset aftera wert |
earqaaraira: seepaarrarheat 19 <0

arat Jaret CRATES | etc:
19 Tbid., IV, 41, 36-38 :

wet attra arr acbrarea: git 1g gin ete:

20 This is, however, not mentioned by the name Lanka or any
other: but only by the term dotpa. Ibid., 1V, 41, 23.

22 GPO

Jee a a ae.

wa

sreichennstaswi- tees Eee © -
KUSJARAKURJADESA OF THE CHANGAL INSCRIPTION — 177

Leaving the discrepancy in the Ramayana out of con-
sideration, we may conclude that the modern peak Agastya-
malai is the ancient Kufjaraparvata, that the country on
its slopes along the river Tamraparni is identical with the
Kufijaradari and the Kufjarakuvijadega, and that the people
of that territory might have gone to Java by the 7th and 8th
centuries A.D,

Veda and Avesta

By Dr. Batakrishna Ghosh
[Conid, from Vol. 1, No. 2.]

Both in Skt. and Avestan an Indo-European s undergoes a
similar transformation after i, u, r and gutturals. It appears
that already in the pre-Indo-lranian age the Indo-European s
in these positions had become an $- sound, the exact nature of
which cannot be determined. In Skt. this %sound further
changed into cerebral s. The Indo-European superlative
sufix -isio appears as -isi(h)a in Skt. and -iSta in Avestan.
The sibilant of this suffix is the same as that in the com-
parative ending -yas- which appears both in Skt. and
Avestan. The transformation of the dental s into gs in, Skt.
and § in Avestan is therefore clearly due to its position after i.
The suffix -su in Loc. pl. shows a dental s after G but after i
and uw it is invariably -sa in Skt. and -'a in Avestan, cf. Skt.
agni-su, aktd-su and Av. xSabri-iu, vajhu-Su. The same
change of s may be observed in both the dialects also after
r and k, cf. Skt. t#sna, Av. tarind: Goth. Paursjan; Skt.
uksité, Av. uxSeiti: Gr. auxdné.

This characteristic of Skt. and Avestan is however shared
also by the Balto-Slavic languages, for in the original Balto-
Slavic too the Indo-European s seems to have become an
¥-sound in similar positions. The transformation of s into $
after i out of Indo-European ? may however be regarded as
a peculiar feature of Indo-Iranian, alone; even in the Balto-
Slavic languages nothing parallel can be found, for in them,
ag in all other non-Indo-Iranian dialects (excepting Greek),
L-E. 2 coincided with I.-E. a and therefore did not give rise
to an i which might have wrought this change. Thus 5kt.
kravig ‘flesh’, Av. xrvidyant ‘blood-thirsty’, Gr. Rréas
(<I.-E.*qrevos). The Greek personal ending -dsthés in 2.
sg. aor. med. has its,exact counterpart in the Skt. -ig- Aorist
ending -igthds. The initial vowel of this ending is a in

sew che RRR AS AS SST
eStore

VEDA AND AVESTA 179

Greek and i in Skt.,~-which proves that in the original Indo-
European it was o. Here we find again that an i <I.-E.
2 has cerebralised a dental s in Skt.

In the field of morphology one of the most striking
common innovations of Skt. and Avestan consists in the
employment of u as the reduplication vowel in the present
and of i or a as reduplication vawel in the perfect, parti-
cularly in the case of verbs with a radical i or u.

It is generally assumed on good grounds that the redupli-
cation vowel was originally always i in present and always e
in perfect, which latter naturally became a in Indo-Iranian.
Yet this distinction between present and perfect was not pre-
served intact in any Indo-European, dialect, and the original
state of things in this respéct was very much disturbed in the
Indo-Iranian dialects. But what is of particular interest to
us here is to note that the disturbances are exactly the same
in Skt. and Avestan. In both these dialects i is still predomi-
nantly the reduplication vowel in present; cf. Skt. tisthati: Av.
hiStonti (:Gr. histémi), Skt. sisakti: Av.hiSaxti,Skt. iyarti :Av.
(uz) yarat, etc. But the influence of the perfect reduplication
with e on the present reduplication may, be clearly per-
ceived already in the Indo-Iranian era; cf. Skt. ddédati, Av.
dadaiti, though the corresponding Greek form didésistill shows
the original i in the reduplication syllable. In the same way
Skt. dédhati Av. dadaiti (: Gr. tithési), Skt. jahati Av.
zazahi, etc. : 7 : .

The opposite influence of present forms on the perfect
was however even more far-reaching, so that even the ano-
malies of present reduplication were transferred to perfect
reduplication by analogy. In all this Avestan goes hand in
hand with Skt. At first the present reduplication: vowel i
crept into perfect reduplication in the case of roots contain-
ing ani; cf. Skt. didvésa, Av. didvaéia (: dvis-), Skt. Gsisdya,
Av. Ghivdya (: say-). Gradually however this i made its

appearance also in the case of some of those roots which |

contained no i; cf. Skt. viodsvdn, Av. vivaghuss {: vas-). The
only other quotable form of this type in Skt. is the doubtful

vivakudn (from vac-?), but several examples may be quoted

6

180 BATAKRISHNA GHOSH

from Avestan; cf. Av. didara beside daddra: Skt. dddhéra,
etc. In the same way the reduplication vowel u invaded the
perfect forms after it was firmly established in present re-
duplication. [It is quite evident that on the proportional
analogy of distéh, digdte: didistdna (imperative) a form
jujustana with an u in the reduplication syllable automatical-
ly came into being on the basis of the simpler unreduplicat-
ed forms justdh, jusate. Gradually in Skt. u became the
normal reduplication vowel in present in the case of roots
containing an u, but in Avestan the corresponding forms
still often show the original reduplicatiion vowel i; cf. Skt.
jdjosate but Av. zizuste. Yet the analogical u is found also
in Avestan, cf. Skt. dériisati: Av. susru’amnd. From the
present this analogical u gradually made its way also into
perfect and in Skt. it became even the normal vowel in per-
fect reduplication in the case of roots containing an u, just
as in present; cf. Skt. rurédha: Av. uraraoda, Skt, taidva:
Av. titava, etc. Only two Skt. roots in -@ have retained
perfect forms with the original @ in the reduplication syllable,
e.g., babhiiva frora bhi- and sastiva (beside susuvé !) from
sa-. Yet Avestan perfect forms of the former prove that in
the Indo-Iranian age both a and u could function as the
reduplication vowel of bha-, cf. baboar? (perfect of inten-
sive) and bodva (to be read as buvdva).

The peculiar passive aorisE in -i used only in third
person, singular is another striking innovation of Skt. and
Avestan, for which no parallel can be found in any other
Indo-European dialect; cf. Skt. dudei: Av. avai, Skt. érdivi
{augmentless form in injunctive): Av. sravi, etc. The origin
of this form, which is so common, in Vedic that it came to
be substituted for the proper third person of any aorist
middle that is used in a passive sense, is quite obscure. It
is all the more striking therefore that in Avestan (and Old
Persian) this isolated passive aorist form appears in exactly
the same form and exercises the same syntactical functions.

Though not so obscure, but hardly less striking is the
element u which characterises the third person sg. and pl.
of imperative in active both in Skt. and Avestan. That
VEDA AND AVESTA 18]

forms like Skt. bhdratu, bhdrantu: Av. baratu, barantu are
nothing but proper injunctive forms extended by the particle
u was recognised long ago. It is curious to note in this con-
nection that the deictic particle w is very often used after
imperative forms in the RV. and often it is an essential part
of the form itself; cf. éto (éfa+u), tépa (tépa+u). It is very
probable that this deictic particle was permanently joined to
the I.-E. injunctive forms in the Indo-Iranian age in two cases
of special frequency and gave rise to the Skt. and Avestan
imperative forms referred to above, for which parallel forms
can be found in no other Indo-European dialect. In two
other cases the personal ending of imperative exhibit analo-
gous innovations both in Sanskrit and Avestan. In 2nd person
sg. act, the usual ending is sometimes increased by -na in
Skt., cf. kdr-ta, kdr-tana. A similar phenomenon may be
observed only in, Avestan, where we find both the forms
bara and barand side by side. In Ist pers. sg. both the end-
ings -a (subj.) and -dni are current in Skt. and Avestan and
this is again a remarkable linguistic innovation common to
both. The ending -dni very probably stands for “dna, of
which the element -na is doubtless identical with the -na of
kdr-tana. Now it appears that already in the Indo-Iranian
age this ending *-dna, clearly of subjunctive origm, had been
changed into -dni on the analogy of 2nd and 3rd pers. sg. which
ended in -i. It is curious to note however that the impera-
tive forms in -tat, which are abundant in Skt. and have their
origin in, the Indo-European age, cannot be traced in Iranian.

In noun inflexion many common. linguistic innovations
may be observed in Skt. and Avestan. One may conveni-
ently begin with the ending -ndm in gen. pl. which is so com-
mon in these two languages. The I.-E. gen. pl. ending was
-5m, both for consohant and vowel stems. But in Skt. although
for consonant stems the older ending has been retained on

the whole, a new form -ndém has been substituted for it in >

the case of all vowel stems, the only exception in this res-
pect being devdm (for devdnam) in the phrase devém jénma.
Yet however, it ig not altogether a specific Skt. or Indo-
iranian innovation, for it is very probable that the ending

ee eee ee

ay
4

182 BATAKRISHNA GHOSH

-ném used to be applied to feminine -d-stems already in the
I.-E. epoch, cf. O. H. G. gebono, O. Norse runono. Per-
haps for i and ii-stems too the same old alliance with the
ending -ndm has to be postulated, for feminine forms such as
Lat. reg-ina, Gr. aischtéiné prove the |.-E. antiquity of their
alliance with an analogical n. But this is all that can be
said in support of the pre-Indo-lranian existence of the end-
ing -ndm. The -dndm of a-stems is an Indo-lranian innova-
tion. It is true that in Avesta the ending -Gndm is met with
only once (maiyGnam=Skt, martyandm) and in all other
cases we find only the ending -anam. But the latter may
easily be a defective writing for -dnam, which is rendered
all the more probable by the fact that in Old Persian the only
form known is -Gndm. On the analogy of a-stems those in
i and u too began, to employ -ndm instead of -Gm, and that
already in the Indo-lranian period, cf. Skt. girindm: Av.
gairinam, Skt. vdsiindm: Av. vohunam, etc. Yet Skt. is
often left in the lurch by Avestan in these cases, for in it
i and u-stems often take the older shorter ending -dm in gen.
pl., cf. Skt. sdkhindm but Av. hatam, Skt. pagiindm but Av.
pasvam. This shows that Skt. has gone farther than Avestan

in generalising the ending -ndm. Skt. forms such as nrndm,
pit?ndm (derived from r-stems) and further caturndm, gondm,
sanndm have no parallel in [ranian.

The declension of feminine -a-stems shows again a series
of striking common innovations in Skt. and Avestan. The
case-sufixes for Instr., Dat., Abl., Gen., Loc., and Voc.
singular of -d-stems show peculiar froms in both these langu-
ages which cannot be found in any other Indo-European
dialect. The old Indo-European ending -d in Instr. sg. is
also used for d-stems in Skt. and Avestan, specially in the
case of stems in -yd@ and -td, cf, Skt. sukriyé avirata, Av.
(uStand.) Cinahyd yesnyatd. (It is possible however that in
both these cases the sharter ending is due to haplology: -yd
stands for -yayd and -td for -tatd (i.e., -tai-d)). But in both
the normal ending is the analogical -ayd, which was origin.
ally at home in the pronominal declension. The Dat., Gen.,
VEDA AND AVESTA 183

Abl. and Loc. sg. show dissyllabic endings in Sanskrit,

characterised by the common element -dy- : -dyai, -dyah,

-dyam, The corresponding Avestan endings are aydi, -aya
and -ayd, the initial short a of all of which may be due
either to defective writing or to the analogy of the ending
-ay@ in Instr. sg. In the other Indo-European dialects the
corresponding case-suffixes are monosyllabic and such as
would correspond to the Indo-Iranian endings if their com-
mon element -dy- were taken away. It is clear therefore
that already in the Indo-Iranian epoch this -dy- came to be
joined to the -d-stems in all these cases. Only a guess can
be made as to the origin of this -dy-: perhaps it is analogi-
cally derived from the i/y@stems which have the endings
-yai, -yah and -ydm in Dat., Gen., Abl. and Loc. sg.; cf.
devyat, devydh, devyaém. In the original Indo-European the
-G-stems came to have the same ending -ai both in Loc.
(-€+i) and Dat. (-d+ai). The postposition @ was attached to
the Locative ending in the Indo-Iranian epoch’ to distinguish
it from the Dative ending,—whence Avestan -*ayd. Fur-
ther extended by the mobile element -am, which plays such
an important part in nominal and pronominal declension in
Skt., it gave rise to the Skt. ending -dydm. On the
analogy of this -dygm on the one hand and the endings
-yai, -yah, -ydm of i/ya-stems on the other, the element -day-
was intreduced also into the endings of Dat. and Gen.,-Abl.
of -dstems in Skt. and Avestan (Bartholomae, Wackernagel).
Lastly in Voc. sg. ‘the -a@stems both in Skt, and Avestan
have the ending -e (in Avestan beside it also the ending -a)
which cannot be paralleled by any other Indo-European
language; cf. Skt. sarame, Av. raziite (but also pourudistd).

The origin of this ending e in Voc. sg. is quite obscure, and
it is all the more striking therefore that it is common hkoth to
Skt, and Avestan. In the other J.-E. languages the Voc. sg.
ending of -d-stems is usually -a, which may be either derived
from 2 or, as the analogy of i-and u-stems suggests, may. be

1 Or even still earlier, for the astems in Lithuanian too seem to
have extended = Loc. sg. ending is the part- position e; a. Lith. oie,
but O, Ch. Si. eta

4

184 BATAKRISHNA GHOSH

simply the shortened form of the radical -@ in unstressed
position; cf. Gr. dphis: éphi, péchus: péchu, ndamphé:
nimpha. tn no case however can this -a be connected with
the Indo-Iranian ending -e.

It is well known, that in Skt. the -i-stems take the ending
-au in Loc. sg. which is evidently derived from the -u-stems.
The original 1.-E. ending in this case was -di (cf. Goth.
anstei: Loc. anstai), and this ending actually seems to be re-
tained in Skt. Agndy-i, which, according to the genial inter-
pretation of Brugmann, signifies nothing but “‘the female
near Agni.”? With the exception of this sole instance in all
other cases this original ending was replaced by the analogi-
cal ending -au-, not only in Skt. but also in Avestan, for there
too the i-stems, beside the regular ending, show the same
analogical form in Loc. sg., though however the forms in
question are used exclusively as infinitives; cf. haora.jata
‘to kill all of a sudden,’ huborotG ‘to nurse carefully’ (the
final -@ of these forms stands for -au). On the strength of
Greek forms like pdléi (trisyllabic)h<"pédlévi (stem poli-) it
was suggested that this analogical transfer of the case-suffix
of Loc. sg. is even of J.-E. antiquity, for *pélévi was inter-
preted as *pdéléu+i, of which -€u corresponds to Indo-
lranian -da and i is nothing but the original Loc.-suffix attach-
ed to the form at a later stage. Yet however these peculiar
loc.-forms might have arisen independently on the soil of
Greece as Brugmann has pointed out.

Beside the endings -()y@ and -ind, the only ones cur-
rent in classical Skt., the -i-stems often take the shorter end-
ing iin the older language; cf. besides utiyd, matyd, dhas ing
also dcitti. This shorter ending in Instr. sg. is again without
any parallel in the other Indo-European languages if the
Avestan is excepted. There, with one sole exception,
namely hata =Skt, sdkhyd, the -i-stems take only this short
ending in Instr. sg., cf. agi, Gisti, etc. Avestan -uw-sterns simi-
larly know only the shorter ending -a (written -a), cf. mainyu,
daénu, vohu, etc.,—the sole exception in this case being
xragwa=Skt. krdtud (ending (uva). It is quite likely there-
fore that in the earliest Vedic the -u-stems knew also the
VEDA AND AVESTA 185

shorter ending -@ in Instr. sg., though however no unambi-
guous form can be quoted from the extant texts to. prove its
existence, | .

All these and various ether common linguistic innova-
tions conclusively prove that Skt. and Avestan are to be re-
garded as a pair of twins within the brotherhood of Indo-
European languages. Yet we have to bear in mind that
neither Skt. nor Avestan represents a homogeneous language,
—each of them, contains a number of distinct dialects asso-
ciated with different ages and regions. It is natural there-
fore that the earliest Skt. agrees best with the earliest
Avestan, It is to be noted, however, that in various respects
the oldest Avestan is more. archaic than the oldest Skt. In
the earliest Avestan Gdod-dialect, for instance, the old
thematic personal ending -d (<I.-E. 6) in Ist. sg., is still retain-
ed, but even in the earliest Skt. there is no trace of it.
Already in the earliest Vedic the athematic ending -mi has
been generalised as in later Avestan. The working of
Bartholomae’s law according to which the group ‘sonant
asp.+surd’ becomes ‘sonant+sonant asp.’, is again more
archaic in the Gaga dialect than in the earliest Skt., in which
both the‘ earlier and later forms are found side by side. I.-E.
roots with initial and final aspirates appear with ian initial as-
piration in Skt. when the final aspiration is dropped, mostly on
account of contact with an s. But there are not a few excep-
tions to this rule in older Skt. Thus the aorist stem of dah-
(<*dhagh-) is daks- (not dhaks- as to be expected) and the
desiderative stem of duh- (<*dhugh-) is duks- (not dhuks-).
These d-forms appeared to be so anomalous to the Vedic
commentators that in. the Padapatha actually dh-forms are
given for them. The reduplicated stems baps- and jaks-
(derived from bhas- and ghas- respectively) are still more
striking, for they have no aspirated form at all at their side.
All this shows that the combination ‘aspirate+s’ exercised
the same influence on a preceding aspirate as an aspirate
alone. In. other words we have to assume ‘that at least in
these cases the law of dissimilation had acted at a time
when, due to contact with s, the final sonant aspirate had

186 BATAKRISHNA GHOSH

not yet become unaspirated tenuis (k-s, ts, p-s), but had
given tise to combinations gzh (<gh-s), dzh (<dh-s) and bzh
(<bh-s) (metathesis of aspiration according to Bartholomae’s
law). These sonant groups at once give the impression of
being older than the surd ones. The apparent exceptions
to the law of dissimilation are therefore nothing but the result
of the same law acting at an earlier stage. Every doubt on
this score will be set at rest if the Avestan forms are com-
pared. In, analogous cases the Gaga -dialect shows only the
sonant groups; cf. diwxaidyai (-bz-, written -w%-, from
-bh+s-), aogta (-g2- from -gh+s-) etc. In the later Avesta
however the surd groups sometimes occur; cf. hang®r®fSdne
(-78- from -bh+s-), daxfa (-x5-from -gh+ s-}.

In a very few cases in the RV. a neuter plural takes a
singular verb. In this respect, too, the Gaga dialect is dis-
tinctly more archaic than the Vedic, for this incongruity is
the rule in it just as in Greek. In later Avestan however
such constructions are rare.

In comparison with later Avestan however, Skt. is dis-
tinctly more archaic, for later Avestan actually shows some
of the characteristics of Middle Iranian dialects. Inter-
vocalic consonants tend to become spirantic in it and the dual
number is gradually got rid of. Confusion in the use of
cases, already well-nigh hopeless in the Gagas, becomes still
more confounded in. later Avestan. The various moods and
tenses are no longer distinguished, subjunctive forms are.
used in indicative, and the prohibitive particle md, which is
connected only with the injunctive in the Gaga-dialect just
as in Skt., appears also in connection with the optative in
later Avestan.

In, striking contrast with all other Indo-European dialects
Avestan, or Iranian as a whole, resembles Skt. in one im-
portant respect: the subsequent development of both, al-
though absolutely independent of each other, has been strik-
ingly alike. Phonology, morphology and syntax of Middle
Iranian dialects are unmistakably analogous to those of
Middle Indian ones. The same general tendencies, which
were inherent in the two respective. basic languages, found
VEDA AND AVESTA 187

expression in their later descendants in the same or similar
ways. This is again, a powerful, though indirect, evidence
in proof of the close affinity of Skt. to Avestan.

Comparison with Avestan, is therefore indispensable to
an historical study of Skt. On innumerable points, both
regarding general principles and particular details, Avestan
throws light on the history of Skt. as the above rapid com-
parative survey has shown. Who would, for instance, believe
that the original form of the familiar Skt. root brii- was mra-
if the verb mrav- was not actually found to occur in the
Avestan ?

COMMENT AND CRITICISM

“The Study of Javanese Literature in India”

Under the above title Dr. Berg has published in the
current number of the Annual Bibliography of Indian
Archaeology some critical remarks on my Indian Influences
on the literature of Java and Bali,”’ \t is not the custom to
reply to a book-reviewer, but as remarks have been made
which are not warranted by facts, not to speak of misuse of
the superlative degree, | apprehend that silence on my part
may mean acquiescence and have therefore been forced to
write this reply.

In judging my work Dr. Berg has completely ignored the
fact that it is written from an Indian point of view. The
works which do not betray Indian influences to a great ex-
tent, as for instance the Calon Arang, could not demand the
same attention as the Radmdyana, the Bhdarata-yuddha, or
even the Arjuna-vivtha. The Javanese element in these
works, though not unnecessary for understanding them as a
whole, could not but appear to me as a side-issue, because
my theme was not the Javanese elements themselves, but
rather the Indian aspect of the Indonesian literature. Even
then [ did not neglect to point out as far as possible the
Javanese element in these works. Reference may be made,
for instance, to my studies on the Rémdyana Kakawin, the
Korawdsrama, the Agastyaparva, the Arjuna pralabda, the
Tantri kGmandaka and other works. Moreover, it should not
be forgotten (as Dr. Berg seems to have done) that of hundreds
of old-Javanese works, not more than thirty or thirty-five have
been so far published. For the rest we have to rely mainly
on the MSS. catalogues. It is possible to ransack these
thirty-five works for Javanese elements, but what about the
rest? Any way, the Javanese elements have received the
share of credit that is due to them in a work that principally
deals with Indian influences on Indonesian literature. Dr.
COMMENT AND CRITICISM 189

Berg has raised another point. He says, “‘It is inadmissible
to treat Middle Java and Eastern Java and their respective
literatures in exactly the same manner ............ lt is necessary
to keep one’s eye on the differences existing between the two
in order to judge correctly the final results of the influence of
India on the literature of Java.’’ This remark is out of place,
since so far from treating Javanese literature as one organic
whole I have described each work separately, analysing the
Indian (and when possible, the Javanese) influences on the
same. Dr. Berg knows fully well that the place of origin of
most of the old Javanese works is not known, and as few of
these works have yet been published, a comparison between
the literatures of Middle and East Java is, to say the least,
premature. These circumstances are so obvious that Dr.
Berg should at least have referred to them. Regarding Dr.
Berg's theory, enunciated in the Hoofdlijnen, of ‘parallel
Hterature’ (which has yet to be generally accepted) | regret
] could not even refer to this, as the booklet reached my
hands too late. [I may, however, here be permitted to re-
cord my views on the same. Historical traditions of Central
and ‘Eastern Java are bound to be different on account of the
diverse political and social factors at work in these two regions.
These factors make a good case for parallel traditions but not
for parallel literature, because, to judge from extant works,
old-Javanese was the common vehicle of literature in Java
in the ancient period. And my book is ; principally concerned
with the ancient period. |

The plan of my work has led me to consider the 'chrono-
logy of old-Javanese literature, the more so as each book
has been separately treated. If in determining the date of
one work I have become involved with other works, it is not
my fault. Dr. Berg may remember that Prof. Krom, whom
he quotes more than once, has, while discussing the
Smaradahana (Geschiedenis, pp. 298-99) felt it necessary to
utilise the data from the Vrttasaficaya, Lubdhaka and the
Ramayana to elucidate the date of the first-mentioned work.

So far regarding the plan of my. work and Dr. Berg's
objections thereto. I shall now refer to the: specific charges

paneer

190 H. B. SARKAR

made by him. Regarding the so-called Middle-Javanese
literature, its position with reference .to old and modern
Javanese literature, and its chronology (between 1478 and
1682), | was guided by an article on Javanese literature pub-
lished in the Encyclopaedie van Nederlandsch oost-Indie.
Dr, Berg has adversely criticised this view, but in doing so
he should not have ignored my further statement (Indian
Influences, p. 11). “It must not be imagined .

that this division of literary epochs is absolute—it merely
represents a tough classification of literary ideals and styles
in three distinct diversified forms.’ Dy. Berg’s remark
regarding p. 160 ff. of my work misrepresents my view-point,
for | tried to show that the date of some figures on the list,
that of Udayan for example, exactly tallies with what is

derived from inscriptions. Dr. Berg could have easily

answered that this agreement of dates was accidental.

The impression which the critic has derived from the
first few chapters of my work, namely that the Indian colo-
nists turned Java into a miniature replica of Bharatavarsa is
not correct so far as the interior regions are concerned. The
mighty architectural remains, the Record of It-sing, the
occurrence of Sanskrit inscriptions jointly indicate the great
influence exerted by the colonists onthe cultural life of Java,
particularly on the colonised regions. | refer in this con-
nexion to the struggle of languages—Sanskrit and Javanese—
which resulted in the birth of Kawi, the artificial compromise
language. How again can Dr. Berg explain the fact that
70 p.c. of the old Javanese words are of Sanskrit origin, that
all the oldest inscriptions of Java are written in Sanskrit and
the Amaramala, the oldest dateable work (c. 750-850), is an
attempt to teach Sanskrit? In the place of the Kalasan ins-
cription, c. 778 A.D., however, | should now read the stone
of Dieng, 809 A.D. This does not, of course, invalidate my
main contention that the old-Javanese language arose from
the struggle of the two languages.

On the date of the old-Javanese Rémdyana there is no
unanimity among competent scholars and it can hardly be
expected that my view will be accepted by all. In studying
ARMS,

COMMENT AND CRITICISM 191

this problem I have placed the data in a new light. This
has probably led Dr. Berg to make some remarks which are
indefinite, except that the introduction of the Vrtlasaficaya
cannot be relied on for ascertaining the date of the old-
Javanese Raémayana. Any way, as this introduction has not
been my mainstay, the acceptance or rejection of its evi-
dence does not affect my conclusion. [| wonder how one
can reject without consideration the persistent and indepen-
dent traditions tending to the same conclusion. While deal-
ing with the ifiga of Krapjak in TBG 74, has not Dr.
Stutterheim shown how a particular tradition can run on for
a thousand years? Dr. Berg also forgets what I stated in my
book, that my chronology explains the existing data on the
problems of the Raémdyana better. If Dr. Berg can prove
that the writers of the Lubdhaka and the Vrtiasaficaya are
the same person, he will do a great service to Indo-Javanese
scholarship.

It is not also true to say that | He “taken it for granted
that the entire religious literature of the Hindus.was trans-
planted to Java."’ While winding up the discussion on the
religious literature of Java (indian Influences, p. 79) I have
said just the reverse thing: ‘“The Javanese people thus ac-
cepted the principles of the social hierarchy of India and
borrowed her religious views, but a substantial
portion of her literature bearing on
the subject practically remained seal-
ed to them.” Similarly Dr. Berg’s statement that “‘the
possibility that the Vedas, together with the Brahmanas,
Upanishads, Sastras (a vague term, H.B.S,) and Siitras may
have been of as little interest to the Javanese as the Indian
drama and several other branches of. Indian literature, has
seemingly not struck the author, and so...... he has
not asked . . . - what were the causes of this pheno-
menon’” ignores what I wrote on p. 396 and implied on p. 79
of my work. Whether the absence of this literature has to
be attributed to the want of interest of the Javanese or the
loss of lontar-records which were not duplicated in later
times or whether the first Brahmanas compelled by neces-

192 H. B, SARKAR

sity to intermarry. with the aboriginal inhabitants conscien-
tiously forbade the Vedic literature to polluted posterity in
spite of the interestedness of the Javanese--is a question
which may not now be answered with certainty. The last
two possibilities have been mentioned in the book. With
reference to Dr. Berg’s remarks on pp. 44-45 of the Annual
Bibliography | have not admitted the fact that the Javanese
shadow-plays have re-oriented or transformed many Indian
epic stories. In judging the Wayang-stories we should take
Indian epics as the standard, because the outline or the ins-
piration has been drawn from them. So, if by working up
Indian myths into lakons, the Javanese redactors make
Narada a clown or present Ghatotkaca and Abhimanyu as
fighting over women, is that no harm to the Indian charac-
ters? Whatever be the motive for this transformation it
cannot but appear to an Indian viewing the problem from
the Indian standpoint (/ndian Influences, Introd., p. 1) that
Indonesian presentation does scant justice to the original
characters.

Dr. Berg finds my characterisation of the Négarakrta-
gama as ‘‘more of a history than a poetical composition’’ to
be wrong. May I put the query, what was the occasion for
his explaining the name as “‘the history of the growth and
blossoming of the kingdom” (Inleiding, p. 61)? As the work
was written in verses the author was bound to pay attention
to the verse-technique. Dr. Berg quotes the authority of
Prof. Krom, but the latter scholar, while discussing the
sources of old-Javanese history, has not included the Nag°®
under the heading of literature and has referred to it
(Geschiedenis, p. 10) as one of “‘the couple of historical
works.’ Elsewhere (/bid., p. 14) Dr. Krom also refers to
invaluable particulars of the Nag®. Does he not also say
(Ibid., p. 19). “ . ... It continues to be the history of the
ancestors of the king glorified in a panegyric. . .’" and
that ““he (Prapafica) is in general perfectly reliable’’> There
are at least half a dozen explanations of the name of Bara-
budur. From the nature of the case, certainty cannot be
reached on such a question but one can never shut his
COMMENT AND CRITICISM 193

eyes to the possible alternatives. The theory about the
Saivite renaissance in 863 A.D. (misprinted in the Biblio-
graphy as 563) originally propounded by Dr. Goris in Theo-
logie appeared acceptable to-me when | wrote my book, but
from my notes on the Pereng stone inscription to be publish-
ed in this journal, it will appear that Goris’s case is not so
strong as | took it to be. Any way those who are acquainted
with the influence of Sankaracarya in India and the history
of contact between India and Indonesia during this period,
will not wonder if that were really so. Regarding Maduran
literature, | should indeed delete the word ‘important’ but
in respect of the Wawekan Dr. Berg’s remark is, to put it
mildly, a travesty of truth. In no place of my. work have I
accepted the data of the Wawatekan excepting in the case
of the Raémdyana, and that for special reasons. As to the
Brahmdandapurana, Dr. Gonda’s edition reached me when a
few chapters of my work were already printed. The alter-
natives, open to me, were either (a) to rely on Friederich, or
(6) not to refer to the work at all. I preferred the former
course. I now gladly recognise that my reasons for a sup-
posed period of Vaisnavism in Java were not adequate. If
I remember correctly, I was here led by an Encyclopaedia-
article. As to another point, when an Indian author writes
from India, the island of Sumatra is little indeed, but it does
not seem so to one writing from Holland or Great Britain.
If from, my work (p. 71) Dr. Berg gets the impression that
the Museum of Mojokerto is more important than those of
Batavia and Leiden, that is unfortunate because | have said
(Indian Influences, Introduction) that the major number of
MSS. is not available outside Batavia and Leiden. Regard-
ing the Kufjarakarna, | fear | have been a little misunder-
stood. What | said was that the work “‘may be’’ of Western
Javanese origin and that the ‘‘oldest MSS.” has been found
from that region: When other sources do not help us much,
the find-spot of the oldest MS. offers provisional indication. of
its origin. Regarding the position of women in Indonesia |
observed (p. 105), ““The position of Indonesian women,
though not very high, was at least similar to or a little better

194 H. B, SARKAR

than, that of their Indian sisters."” Dr. Berg retorts, “‘Any
book dealing with adats of the Indian archipelago might have
told him that the position of women in Java is on the whole
more favourable than that of their sisters in India proper.”
Allowing for Dr. Berg’s confusion of the present for the past,
is not this a paraphrase of my statement? Regarding his
remark on p. 114 of my work, I cannot do better than quote
Prof. Krom (Geschiedens, p. 11), ““The method whereby the
data have come to us is of two kinds . . . . The authors
especially those of the poems, have frequently offered, jat the
beginning or at the close of their works, diverse informations
regarding themselves ** (Italics mine). [ am,
however, thankful to Dr. Berg for pointing out that I should
have considered the possibility of Indian origin for the so-
called ‘‘small metres.”” His remarks on jinn and the usadas
may be correct. In the following line Dr. Berg has misunder-
stood me, I have referred to the chronograms not as fixing
the date of particular works, but merely as “a mode of ex-
pression.” As a mode of expression, they are certainly a
legion. Dr. Berg may refer to the Nag’. The explanation
of the name of the Tantu Panggelaran by Kern appears
doubtful to me now, but Dr, Berg’s elucidation of the ‘linguis-
tic characteristics of two different epochs:present in the work
will be appreciated by all. Dr. Hidding’s Nji Pohatji Sang-
jang Sri is not yet available to me.

The possibility of the old-Javanese Ramayana being an
independent creation is ruled out by the consideration that
some portions of the old-Javanese text are an exact echo
of the text of Valmiki (cf. Indian Influences, p. 402). While
referring to 1200 early Javanese versions, | doubted its cor-
reciness, but the name of Mr. Kats, | thought, was a sufficient
guarantee for the genuineness of the information I note
what Dr. Berg says about the date of the Uttarakdnda and
the alternative explanation of ‘abilawa’. The old-Javanese
recension of the Bhagavadgité has been discussed by Prof.
Gonda only recently, and | could not therefore utilise it for
my work. To an Indianist, the Sanskrit glokas of the old-
Javanese Mahabharata are of great value for solving the
pene et anes

COMMENT AND CRITICISM 195

problem of a complete recension of the Sanskrit text, and I
have recognised their importance (Ibid., p. 241). Before
making the remark on Jaya-katwang, Dr. Berg should have
noticed Krom, Geschiedens, (p. 296), which I have followed
in some respects. Dr. Berg has certainly seen that my re-
mark on the source of the suluk was based upon that of
Stutterheim. My remarks on the lakon Mintaraga and on
Damar Wulan were based upon Juynboll’s article in the
Eneyclo. Ned. Ind. 1V. The title Koravaérama has not been
used on pp. 325-35 of my work and Dr. Berg might have
misunderstood the bearing of my statement on p. 325. |
note, however, that my reference to the Bal. translation of
the Bhomakavya, based on Dr. Juynboll, is not correct. Dr.
Berg writes that Poerbatjaraka has ‘‘certainly never written
anything on the subject of Panji romances.’’ Dr. Poerbat-
jaraka has certainly written on the same and it may be seen
in TBG, LVIII, pp. 461-489. I recognise the importance of
Dr. Rasser’s researches, but the results are so startling that
we shall have to await further light from other sources (ethno-
logy for instance). The last part of the history of Majapahit
falls between 1378-1478, and 1278-1478 is a printing mistake.
Regarding the last note on p. 402 of my work, Dr. Berg has
misunderstood me, as the earlier opinion refers to that of
Kern which is no longer acceptable. My work is principally
based on Dutch sources. If Dr. Berg has noted the foot-
notes of my work, his remarks on my study of old and new
Javanese languages would not have arisen at all. All books
and articles concerning Indonesia do not reach India, but |
have tried to make the best use of those available here. Dr.
Berg recognises the importance of maintaining contact be-
tween the two poles of research. If Dutch and Indonesian
scholars make it a point to present copies of their works to
the Greater India Society, which centralises Indian intellec-
tual curiosity on Greater India, the work of their Indian col-
leagues will be more fruitful and the task less arduous.
Unbiassed readers may now judge for themselves what
is the nature of Dr. Berg's “critical remarks.”” I do not pre-
tend that my book is free from all blemishes. — In a pioneer

)

ie

196 H. B. SARKAR

work of this character small mistakes are inevitable, but they
are not such as to provoke rancorous remarks from a sober
scholar. Dr. Berg should remember that in old-Javanese
matters there is always room for doubt and one should not
misuse terms like ‘certainly’, ‘unfortunately’, ‘goes too far’,
etc.

H. B. SARKaR.

A CORRECTION

In the previous issue of this journal (Vol. Il], .pp. 111-12)
I wrote that the date of a Solo copper-plate (No. 193) was
read by Poerbatjaraka as 849 Saka and by Goris as 6829
Saka. In the same connection | observed that this latter date
was contested by Stutterheim who subscribed to the reading
of Poerbatjaraka. Dr. Stutterheim now kindly informs me
that while discussing the Gorang Gareng plate, he did not
contest the reading of the date by Goris. The misunder-
standing arose from my inferring that the numeral 4 in the
plate of Gorang Gareng (which Dr. Stutterheim considers to
be certain) was also applicable in the place of 2 of the date
in the Solo-plate, thus making the date run as 849 Saka. In
Old-Javanese inscriptions it is really difficult to differentiate
between 2 and 4. I therefore very willingly delete the por-
tion referring to Dr. Stutterheim.

H. B. Sarkar
NOTICES OF BOOKS

The Javanese Version of the Bhagavadgita. By J.
Gonda, Utrecht. Reprinted from Tijdschrift voor Ind. Taal-,
Land- en Volkenkunde, Deel Ixxv, 1935, pp. 36-82.

Of the Javanese adaptation of the Mahdbhdrata, only
eight out of eighteen Parvans have so far been brought to
our notice by the labours of the Dutch scholars. The
present short but interesting paper is a study of the Javanese
version of an important part of the Bhisma Parvan, viz., the
Bhagavadgita; it will appeal not only to the professional
scholar but also to all those who take an interest in the
history and adventures of the Great Epic.

In spite of the comparatively recent date (circa 1000 A.D.)
of the Javanese version, which however precedes that. of
any known manuscript, it possesses a considerable import-
ance for critical purposes as an independent testimonium.
It does not, however, give. a complete translation, of the
Sanskrit epic; it offers a more or less abridged adaptation, in
Javanese, of the original. As such, it hardly affords much
assistance for determining the complicated text-problem of
the epic; but to the text-critic its chief value lies in the fact
that throughout the Javanese adaptation are scattered direct
guotations from the Sanskrit text, consisting of a Sloka, or a
part of Sloka, or sometimes even a single word. As a rule,
these Sanskrit excerpts are given in. an extremely corrupt
form, but are followed by a more or + Tess literal translation
into Old Javanese.

Dr. Gonda assures us that the paper unde? review is the
preliminary to an edition of the Javanese text of the Bhaga-

vadgita which he is going to publish. His present object is

to give an indication of the differences, as well as agreements,

of the Javanese text with that of the Sanskrit epic; but he

maintains that in order to do so it is necessary to study the
entire Javanese text and not merely the Sanskrit quotations.
Accordingly he gives us an English - yandation of the

198 NOTICES OF BOOKS

Javanese text, with a rapid comparison of the contents of
each Adhyaya with the summary of the Vulgate given by
R. G. Bhandarkar in his well-known work, Vaisnavismn,
Saivism and Minor Religious Systems. Dr. Gonda finds that
there is much that is missing or is skipped over in the
Javanese version; but he comes to the general conclusion
that ‘‘the Old-Javanese Bhagavadgita, as we have it, is a
rather good translation. He believes that the Javanese
author has given only those parts of the subject-matter which
he considered to be the most important, and deliberately left
out the remainder. He has thus made his: own selection and
set forth, on the basis of his Sanskrit copy, the outlines of
what Dr. Gonda calls a shorter Javanese Gita. On the other
hand, Dr. Gonda believes that in some of these points his
text surprisingly agrees with the Kashmirian recension des-
cribed by Schrader. Incidentally he discusses the relation
between the Javanese text and the quotations found in Al-
beruni; but he himself admits that the result of his comparison
is, on the 'whole, very poor.

It should be clearly understood that the value of the
Javanese version, as indeed of all versions of the epic, de-
pends upon the value of the tradition which it is found, on
examination, to represent; and until this problem is determin-
ed it is possible to exaggerate its importance. It must not
be forgotten that from time immemorial the epic existed in
local versions; and that this process was not stopped even
by scriptal fixation has now been amply demonstrated by the
critical edition published by the Bhandarkar Oriental
Research Institute, Poona. It is indeed true that the
Javanese version gives us a form of the text which
is far older than our existing manuscripts, but it
establishes nothing beyond the fact that it is evidence only for
the text of the epic as it existed in that particular local form
in that century and was known to the Javanese adapter. Like
our manuscripts and like other versions, it is thus one of the
evidences (albeit uninfluenced from that century onwards);
but its collateral testimony. does not prove anything regard-
ing the character of the original Mahabharata.
SF nasaan SS

NOTICES OF BOOKS 199

It is desirable, therefore, to determine the tradition of
the Sanskrit epic which the Javanese author accepts. The
agreements with the Kashmirian version would not be very
surprising if it could be established that the Javanese version
of the Bhagavadgita followed the Northern Recension. If,
on the other hand, it could be shewn that it followed the
Southern Recension, then these agreements would not be
secondary but original, and would, therefore, possess immense
value to the text-critic. In this investigation, however, Dr.
Gonda is naturally handicapped by the fact that no critical
edition of the Sanskrit’ text of the part with which he is con-
cerned has yet been published. Neither the Vulgate nor the
so-called ‘South Indian text is of much assistance in this direc-
tion, for they do not give us any idea of the text of the various
recensions and versions. Dr. Sukthankar has shown that
the text of the Sanskrit Adi-parvan, which was followed
by the Javanese adapter of the same, belonged to the Northern
Recension. The Northern (Vulgate) version is also followed
by the Javanese version of the Udyoga-parvan, the Sanskrit
text of which the present writer has undertaken for the Poona
edition. But it appears that the statement does not apply
so definitely to the case of the Virata-parvan. As a matter
of fact, the problem is probably different for the different
books of the Mahabharata. It would be interesting and
important, therefore, to know what recension was followed
by the Javanese writer of the Bhisma-parvan in general and
the Bhagavadgitd in particular. But the problem cannot be
definitely solved until the critical edition of this Parvan, which
would give us an exact idea of the different recensions and
versions, is published. :

Dr. Gonda’s labours, however, must not, for this reason,
be taken as fruitless. There cannot be any doubt that he has
rendered a distinct service to the study of the epic text by

translating the entire Javanese adaptation of the Bhagavadgita —

into English. He might have also reproduced the Sanskrit
excerpts, as he found them, and not as he wants to emend
er reconstruct them, along with his translation of these
passages. But he will probably do this when he brings out

200 NOTICES OF BOOKS

his intended edition. In the meantime, all interested scholars

will eagerly look forward to what he has promised and what

he has ably justified by this short but highly suggestive essay.
5. K. De

Gids in het Volkenkunde Museum, XIli. De
Indianen en Boschnegers van Suriname: By B. M. Goslings,
127 pp. Issued by the Koninklijke Vereeniging Koloniaal
Instituut.

Some useful monographs have already been published in
this series by well-known authors. The work under review,
which forms No. XIII in the series, is meant to serve as a
guide to the Ethnological Museum of the Colonial Institute
and is devoted, according to our author, to the Indians and
Bush-niggers of Suriname, as Dutch Guiana is usually desig-
nated by the people of the Netherlands. The title of the
work, however, is somewhat misleading, as the book principal-
ly describes the handicrafts of the Indians and the Bush-
niggers of Suriname, rather than the peoples themselves.
The introductory portion of the work is aptly devoted to a
short history of the place and to the above-mentioned in-
habitants of interior-Suriname, specimens of whose handi-
craft preserved in six cabinets and other show-cases of the
Museum have been consummately described by Mr. Goslings.
The reproductions in the work show that some of the wood-
work and pottery are of excellent workmanship. Mr.
Goslings has well executed his work, but a map of ‘Suriname
would have increased the general utility of the book.

H. B. SARKAR

Inleiding tot de ethnologie van de Indische Archipel:
By J. Ph. Duyvendak, forming Vol. | of the Indische
Cultuur-Historische Bibliothek, pp. 201, Batavia, 1935.

Within the last 50 years progress has been made in the
study of the ethnology of the Indian Archipelago, but in many
of its phases not even the rudimentary work has been done.
NOTICES OF BOOKS 201

Though the present work is not comprehensive, it has sought
to give a unity to the results of research achieved so far. The
author has handled the data with ability and has produced an
eminently readable work. His coinage of some ethnological
terms (p. 71ff) is generally commendable. The work opens
with a tirade against the use of the terms “‘Nature-folks’’ and
‘‘primitives’’ and recommends ‘‘Not-historical folks’’ as the
most suitable one; he has not, however, discarded the use
of the first two terms (pp.:32, 101, 102, 160, etc.). Pp, 19-27
have been devoted to a consideration of the people of the
Indian Archipelago in respect of their Negrito, Weddoid, and
Malay elements. As one person does not possess all the traits
of a race, a plea for racial and cultural study for ethnology
is made on pp. 28-29. The second chapter offers an ethno-
graphic sketch of the Mentaweiers and is chiefly based upon
the valuable studies of Alb. Kruyt. The succeeding two
chapters, those on society and religion, are. most interesting
from the ethnological point of view and should provoke further
research. The last chapter is aptly devoted to the culture-
complex of the primitive and the modern world, and this
brings the present work to a close. The bibliographical notes
have greatly increased the value of the book. It may be safely
recommended to those who wish to have a good idea of the
subject without going through a number of text-books. The

work should have contained an index.
H, B, SARKAR

Hayagrivat The. Mantrayanic Aspect of Horse-cult in

China and Japan. By R. H. Van Gulik. Published by ~

E. J. Brill, Leiden, 1935.

To investigate the origins of a deity belonging toa parti-
cular cult, as well as to trace its gradual development not
only in the environment of its original sphere but also in its
newer surroundings when it is included in the pantheon of
another cult of the same culture-area is a task worthy of
accomplishment. To do full justice to it, the researcher
has to examine in detail all the available data of a religious

202 NOTICES OF BOOKS

nature, especially in their mythological and ritualistic as.
pects from the earliest period onwards; for in this way alone,
he can not only detect the different stages underlying the
gradual development of the ideology about the particular
divinity, but also to offer explanations for the successive
changes. The importance of his task is further enhanced,
when he tries to follow the migration of the above-mentioned
god-cencept into distant countries and to trace the stages
leading to its inclusion into the ritual and mythology af
these lands outside the culture-area of its origin.

Mr. R. H. van Gulik has set before himself this task
in, his recently published Hayagriva, and it must be admit-
ted that he has fulfilled it with credit. Though he limits his
subject to the Mantrayanic aspect of the horse-cult in China
and Japan, he has rightly prefaced his study by a brief refer-
ence to the nature of the Mahayanic gods and a compara-
tively full treatment of the question about the first appear-
ance of Hayagriva in Indian mythological tales, closely asso-
ciated with the cult of Visnu. Hayagriva first makes his
clearly recognisable appearance in the epic literature of
India. He was the deliverer of the Vedas from Madhu and
Kaitabha, the two demons who stole them from Brahma, and
it was he who restored them to Brahma. In certain (presum-
ably later) portions of the great epic, however, Hayagriva ap-
pears also as the name of a demon, an ally of Tarakasura,
who was an inveterate enemy of Visnu and other gods and
who was killed by Visnu inthe Taraka War. Some late
Puranas like the Bhagavata and the Agni assign as the motive
for destruction of this demon the theft of the Vedas by him
The god Hayagriva, however, is now or even earlier, def-
nitely incorporated in the list of the various incarnatory
forms of Vigsnu. The author has noticed all these points in
detail; but his remarks (p. 17) that ‘the passage in Vignu
Purdra(V, ch. 17) is the only one in the old literature ;where
the horse-form of Vignu is positively mentioned in the list
of the Avatdras’ and that ‘thig passage is a latter interpola-
tion’ are open to objection. Thus in the list of the 39
vibhavas (avataras) mentioned in the Ahirbudhnya Samhita
NOTICES OF BOOKS _ 208

(5.50 .), which according to Schroeder belongs to the older
and authoritative group of the Paiicaratra Samhitds, Visnu's
Vadabavaktra, i.e., Hayagriva form occupies the I Ith posi-
tion. So, Nabhadasa’s mention of the same form as the
i8th avatdra of the Lord Visnu in his Bhaktamdla is based
on the much earlier Paficaratra tradition. As Visnu has this
form, so the demon Hayagriva after his death in the hands
of Vignu in the Taraka battle, assumes the shape of the
horse-demon, Kegin. in the forest region of Yamuna (Yamun4-
vana) to kill Vasudeva, another vibhava of Visnu. The
killing of the Hayaraja, i.e., KeSin is referred to at least twice
in the great epic, once in the Drona Parvan (5.3), and again
in the Udyoga Parvan (130.47), where Vasudeva Krsna's ex-
ploits both in his early and mature ages are being recounted
respectively by Dhrtarastra and Vidura; but here there is no
reference to his having been an incarnation of the demon
Aévagirah.

In these stories we can certainly ees the various
stages in the development of the myth-forms. If we. try
however, to seek for the nucleus of these myths in earlier
literature, we tread on uncertain ground. The reference in
the Udyoga-parvan (ch. 99) to the Hayaégira aditya who, on
every alispicious occasion, rises from the Patala region and
fills the world called suvarna with Vedic hymns, suggest
that this passage marks an early stage in the possible deve-
lopment of the idea of Hayagriva Visnu who was an Aditya,
from the sun-horse conception of the Vedic period. The
author draws our attention here to the horse-shaped Dad-
hikra (Dadhikravan), mentioned in various hymns of the

Rgveda, who is none other than the sun-god himself con-
ceived in a theriomorphic form. But it is curious that he_

should refrain from alluding in this connection, to the Vedic
Rsi Atharvana Dadhyafic who was endowed with a horse’s
head by the Aévins in order that the twin-gods might learn
from the seer the madhuvidyd which was. taught to the sage
by Indra or Tvastr. The author's reference to the efforts of
certain scholars to connect Dadhica with a horse’s head with
the general conception of the horse-headed figure (p. 17,

204 NOTICES OF BOOKS

n.2 of his monograph) is not commensurate with the import-
ance of the subject. The author, again, seems not to have
been able to enunciate fully his proposition, viz., that the
function as fecundity-symbol is credited to the horse on ac-
count of phallic considerations, to which category the identi-
fication of Hayagriva and Visnu and the Agvamedha in
general belong; it is indeed unlikely that this will ever be
proved beyond doubt.

The early references to Hayagriva, the restorer and the
reciter ‘of the Vedas fully prove that he was primarily a deity
presiding over knowledge and wisdom. This characteristic
trait is throughout maintained in the Brahmanical concep-
tion about the god. The number of late manuscripts on
Mantra and Mantra Kalpa centering around Hayagriva,
which is noticed by Prof. Kuppuswami Sastri in his Trien-
nial Catalogue of Manuscripts (Vol. VI, Part 1) for the Madras
Government Oriental Manuscripts Library, clearly proves
this point. The Hayagriva pafijaram begins thus: Srihaya-
grivapatjaramantrasya Brahma Rsih, gayatrichando Haya-
grivo devata, etc.; in the Hayagriva kavaca (said to have been
taken from the Hayagriva tantra) we have :—Om Hayagrivaya
fuklavarndya jfanamirtaye Omkdardéya acyutéya Brahma-
vidyapraddyakdya svdhd; the Hayagriva-stotra begins with
this couplet: JAdndnandamayam devam nirmalasphajika-
kttim/Adhéram sarvavidyéném Hayagrivamupasmahe//;
and Vedantadegika, the great Sri-Vaignavite teacher of the
south aptly sings the praise of this god in his Hayagriva-
stotra in this vein: Tusdradrisamacchayam  tulasidéma-
bhasanam/ Turangamamukham vande  tungasdrasvata-
pradam// Abhangurakaldddna-sthilalaksatvamiyuse/ Turn-
gaya mahase tasmai turangaya mukhe namah//. Many
of the iconographic descriptions of this god substantiate
this view; thus, the Visnudharmoitaram passage {Part Ill,
ch. 80, verses 1-6) about the eight-handed form of Haya-
griva distinctly describes it as a part of Samkarsana (Sam-
karsananga) who is himself that emanation of the lord (Para-
Vasudeva) in which two, viz., jidna and bala of the six-fold
aigvarya are specially predominant. The element of fear
NOTICES OF BOOKS 205

underlying the character of this divinity in its Brahmanical
aspect is present to a certain extent; but this does never
outweigh its primary trait. This fact has not sufficiently
been. emphasised by the author in the second chapter of his
monograph. When the god-concept Visnu-Hayagriva was
adopted into the cult of the Mahayana Buddhism as Vidya-
raja Hayagriva as am aspect of Avalokiteévara as early as the
beginning of the 6th century A.D., this characteristic trait
Was given a new orientation. This Vidydraja the king of
the Vidyadharas, the carriers of magical knowledge or magic
power, came gradually to be conceived as a divinity with
terrific features chiefly invoked fer the fulfilment of one’s
desires and for abhicGra purposes, though its earlier placid
and benign aspect is not totally lost sight of (cf. Bhattacarya,
Buddhist Iconography, Pl. XLHI. 1). Certain Brahmanical
manuscripts of a late date lay down this fierce trait; thus,
the Hayagrivdstram (Kuppuswami Sastri, ibid.) begins with
‘Om am hraum sphura sphura prasphura prasphura ghora
ghoratara Hayagriva ehi ehi suriipa Ksiragaura haydnana
cafa cata pracata pracata kaha kaha aégvavaktra bhrama
bhrama bhramaya bhrdmaya bhasmikara bhasmikara, etc.
and ends thus—Hayagrivamahdstram ca vijavandham satot-

taram/ Ajutam ca japennityam atyantam sgubhaddyakam | |

Sarvaroguharam gastram sarvdnistavindganam/ Sarvasiddhi-
karam  caiva  sarva-Satrunikyntanam// Mahaigvaryapra-
dam caiva mahdvagyakaram tatha] Ityddisugunairyuktam
Hayagrivastrameva ca//’ That this was certainly due to
the Buddhist mantrayana influence on Brahmanical Hinduism
is clearly proved by another manuscript in the same. collec-
tion, viz., Hayagrivamalamantra which begins thus—
‘Athéto bhagavantam sarvatejonidhim sarvadustaduritavi-
dhv¢msinam mahdvidydrajarapindm Hayasirasamdvartayi-
syami.”

lt is not certain whether there existed in old China the
cult of the horse considered as a fecundity symbol; in Japan
however, it might have been popular from the early mytho-
logical age. But when the Buddhist .Hayagriva was introduc-
ed in both the countries by the preachers of the Mahayana

Tae ee

-
Mi
|
t
§

206 NOTICES OF BOOKS

cult the developed concept of mantraydnic aspect of this
deity tock deep roots there. This is clearly evidenced by
the dhdranis, mantras and the mudrds especially associated
with this cult in those countries. The author's elaborate
notices of the sixth chapter of the Chinese text of the
Dhérani-samgraha or Dhdarani-samuccaya (the greater part
of which particularly treats of this figure), and of the Japanese
canon about the same, supply us with ample materials for
substantiating this point. In course of his historical survey
of the migration of Hayagriva to these lands far away from
India, the author has tried to establish the point that
“‘Hayagriva won for himself a place in the foreground, and
syncretestically or otherwise, incorporated local gods in his
own person’ especially in Tibet, in Mongolia, and to a cer-
tain extent also'in Japan; and this fact might also have great-
ly contributed to the development of the particular trait
which we have tried to emphasise in the course of our
present review...

The author modestly describes his effort as only of a
preliminary and fragmentary character and claims the indul-
gence of his readers by an apt quotation from the Dyiitaparva-
dhydya of the Sabhaparva of the great epic. Though his
readers may not see eye to eye with him in every finding of
his, yet it must be admitted that the critical handling of the
multifarious data brought in by the author in the discussion
of various problems and the scholarly restraint with which
he has enumerated the many curious ritualistic details con-
nected with his theme have entitled his achievement to
rank as an able and meritorious one.

_ Jrrenpra Natu BANERIEA

Agastyapatwa, uitgegeven, gecommented en vertaald
door J. Gonda, overdruk uit de Bijdragen tot de taal-, land-
en Volkenkunde van Nederlandsch-Indig, dj. 90 afl. 2-3,
1933, dl. 92 afl. 3, 1935, dl. 94 afl. J-2, 1936.

a ey

oe
NOTICES OF BOOKS 207

Dr. Gonda hag already earned a well-deserved reputa-
tion as the editor of the Old-Javanese Brahmandapurana. The
work under review is characterized by the same comprehen-
siveness that marked his earlier work and every page of it
bears the stamp of his wide reading, It presents for the
first time a critical edition of the text of the Agastyaparwa
(based on eight or nine MSS.) containing besides the trans-
lation, textual criticism, critical notes, glossary of important
words not found (or:partly found) in the standard dictionaries
and so forth. Dr. Gonda has well handled the Sanskrit data
in connection with his attempt to trace the sources of the
present work, but as he does not go‘far enough in this direc-
tion, an Indian Sanskritist may profitably resume the investi-
gation at the point left over by Dr. G. The contents, com-
position, nature and origin of the Agastyaparwa have been
discussed by the author (ibid., pp. 337-338) with his usual
good sense and caution. We notice, however, a slight mis-
take on p. 385. It is not true to say, as Dr. G. does after
Krom, that Sandhyddwaya (‘the two twilights’) does not
cccur in the curse-formulae of inscriptions after the time of
Airlangga. In copper-plate No. [V of Bluluk (OV., 1919,
Bijl. G.) dating from the Majapahit period (cf. Krom,
Geschiedenis,? p. 384), the word has been explicitly men-
tioned in pl. VI, r°. 1. Similarly, in line 7, second face of the
inscription of Nglawang, TBG., 53 (1919), pp. 411-412, re-
ference has been made to the dwisandhye (obviously the
same as sdndhyddwaya) and this record also dates from
the Majapahit period. But these and a-few others are essen-
tially minor mistakes and they do not detract from the high
value of the work which has entailed considerable research
on the part of the author. The author’s task has been exe-
cuted exceedingly well. As the work is closely connected
with Sanskrit Puranic literature, it is commended to the
notice of the Sanskrit scholars of this country, and to the
students of Sanskrit Puranic literature in particular.

- H. B. Sarkar

*e

;
f
i
}
i
i
5

i
a

208 NOTICES OF BOOKS

Koninklijke Vereeniging Koloniaal Instituut, Ams-
terdam, vijf en Twintigste jaarverslag, 1935.

The Colonial Institute of Amsterdam was established
on the Hlth August, 1910. Since then it has spread its activities
in various directions and has undertaken some useful publica-
tions. The present report gives a résurné of its activities for
the last 25 years.

H. B. Sarkar.

The India that is India: By Elizabeth Sharpe.
Published by Luzac & Co., London.

Miss Elizabeth Sharpe lived in India for nearly a quarter
of a century and occasionally enlightened Anglo-Indian and
American readers by publishing articles in the Illustrated
Weekly and in the New York World. These desultory
writings are now published, as she admits in her Foreword,
“to prevent Europeans applying their own standards of
judgment in solving problems which are essentially matters
for the Eastern people alone.’ In her sanctimonious ‘“Con-
clusion,"” she makes her propaganda more crudely palpable
when she unctuously rebukes England for ‘her mistake in
this careless implanting of her democratic ideas in the soul
of an intensely conservative people.’’ She hopes, however,
that the world will ultimately know “‘the greatness, the
liberality and the magnitude of England who having gained
all, gave back all!’’ The concluding phrase may have
served asa better title for her veiled political pamphleteer-
ing, for she has written only a mediocre “‘Mother India,’’
lacking the literary verve and aggressive venom of Catherine
Mayo. Earning her salary as the Private Secretary to the
Thakore Shahib of Limbdi, she has shown little respect for
the ladies behind the Purdah and as little knowledge of the
Indian girls about whom she has naively generalised. We
wonder if the writer ever moved out of the enclosure of the
Indian States and talked to a few of our College girls cr

ole tine eee ee ee
NOTICES OF BOOKS 209

our women leaders like Dr. Muthulakshmi Reddi of Madras
or Dr. Mrs. Karve of the Women’s University, Poona. Her
ignorance of India outside the Indian States is colossal and
she insidiously applies to all Indians whatever she detects
as reprehensible in any isolated individual or community.
She omits conveniently, however, to: mention a few pro-
gressive Indian States, like Baroda (so near to her), Mysore
and Travancore. With only 6 or 7% of literacy at the pre-
sent day, India has produced thinkers and writers, political
leaders, social workers and philanthropists—men and
women—whom Miss Sharpe might have saluted gracefully
before quitting this country. But she preferred to humiliate
further a fallen nation with faint praise and lip-sympathy which
Indians by now have learnt to evaluate at their true worth.
She has pictured the ignoble state of the India that is India.
But what about the India that shall be, the India that is
siruggling to rise above all that is? Miss Sharpe has nothing
to report on that topic and so her career of a quarter of a
century, no less than her naive generalisations, would be
counted among the many ‘“‘curiosities’’ of the realm of Is
which are fast passing into the limbo of Was.

K. N.

Book of Ram: The Bible of Indias By Mahatma
Tulsidés. Rendered into English by Hari Prasad Shastri.
Published by Luzac & Co., London.

It is an encouraging sign that the classics of mediaeval
India are drawing the attention of the general public.
English translations of Kabir and Mira Bai have already
been published. Now the adaptation of the Rdama-carita-
médnasa, the grand Hindi Epic of Tulsidas (a contemporary
of Akbar and Jehangir) is presented by Pandit Hari Prasad
Shastri. He has tried te perform his task with devotion, but
he lacks the literary and historical sense and thus his prose
résumé appears rather prosaic, specially because the original
poem of Tulsidas ie surcharged with poetic grace and literary

yaa ee
ee ee ened

210 NOTICES OF BOOKS

qualities. The miracle elements have been exaggerated, and
what the author has missed.is the simple beauty of the
original poem which has captivated the heart of millions of
souls down to this day. The Intreduction from the pen
of Lotus Dudley, although uncritical, is written with sym-
pathy. Legends and miracles about Tulsidaés may attract
only a few and alienate many sober readers. The trans-
literations of Indian names are far from being satisfactory.
But the littl book will, we hope, rouse sufficient interest to
permit another issue which should contain more of the
dramatic and poetic passages and also a good and scholarly
Introduction on the life and works of Tulsidis, whe was a
real pioneer of Indian Vernacular literature.

K. N.
a * =" Tee rl 4 ae eS E ss aes Rr: =
Dr. E, E, OperMiLier
OBITUARY NOTICE *
Dr. E. E. Obermiller

Dr. E. E. Obermiller (according to the Russian manner
of addressing everybody by his Christian name and the name
of his father—Evgenii Evgeniewich, i.e., Eugen son of
Eugen) was born in St. Petersberg (now Leningrad) on the
29th October 1901. In his earliest youth his extraordinary
gifts, especially his never-failing memory and great musical
capacities, attracted general attention. He received a good
education in his family home where great care was bestowed
on teaching languages and music. When he entered the
Government School he already possessed an almost perfect
knowledge of French, German and English. His parents
prepared him for a musical career, they had every reason to
expect that he would be a celebrated composer and per-
former. But in the year 1918 when he was already a
University student, a constitutional illness appeared and that
obliged the parents to alter their plans. This illness ‘Serin-
gomuelia’ was hereditary in the Obermiller family, it was
lameness progressive and incurable. The mother of E. E.
died of it at the age of 30. As his father died before her
the young student Obermiller was left an invalid orphan to
the care of two aunts Mrs. Olga Obermiller and Mrs.
Elizabeth Schwede. These two devoted ladies did all they
could for the life of their dear nephew under the very difficult
conditions from which the country suffered during the great
war and the revolutions which followed. It was at this junc-
ture that he began at the University to attend my lectures
on Indology and Sanskrit Grammar. He very quickly
mastered all the difficulties of Sanskrit Grammar, owing to
his quite extraordinary memory he also very successfully
went through all other courses of Sanskrit literature which |
conducted at that time in the University of Leningrad.
When we began the study of Panini on the basis of

* By courtesy of the Indian. Historical Quarterly, Vol. XI, No. 2,
Calcutia. a ee

10

212 OBITUARY NOTICE

Siddhanta-Kaumudi he was profoundly impressed by, and

full of admiration for, the greatest Indian linguist, he knew by

heart almost every sitra and cherished for some time a

scheme of writing the grammar of the Russian language

according to the grammatical sitra-method of Panini.

After that we studied with him Alamkara Sastra on the basis

of Alamkdra-sarvasva and the Dhvanydloka when the young

student became thoroughly versed in the Sastra style. |
initiated him into Indian philosophy. This is, the usual series
of courses in Sanskrit which are followed in the Leningrad

University. After having acquired a good basis in Sanskrit

it became a quite easy task to acquire the knowledge of

Tibetan and Mongolian tongues, since the ideas expressed

in the respective literatures are thoroughly Indian, the

grammar and vocabulary offered—for a man so gifted as
was Obermiller—no difficulty at all. After having taken his

University degree of Ph.D., Obermiller was engaged by the

Academy of Sciences of Leningrad as an under-secretary to

the Redactor of the Bibliotheca Buddhica where he at once

began to work also as an independent scientific producer.

His first works were two Indices verborum Tibetan-Sanskrit

and Sanskrit-Tibetan of the celebrated work on Logic by

Dharmakirti, the Nydya-bindu. They were executed with

the' greatest care and thoroughness in every detail; the scien-

tific activity of Obermiller extends only over 8 years, from

1927 to 1935. During these eight years he has produced

quite enough to fill up a long and successive life entirely

devoted to science. Here is a list of his main works—~

1. Sanskrit and Tibetan Index Verborum to Nydyabindu,

Nyayabindu Tika, edited; Bibliotheca Buddhica,
Leningrad, 1927.

2. Tibetan and Sanskrit Indian Verborum to the same
work, Leningrad, 1928.

3. Abhisamaydlamkdra, Sanskrit text and Tibetan transla-
tion, jointly edited with Prof. Th. Stcherbatsky, Biblio-
theca Buddhica, Leningrad, 1929.

4, Bu-ston’s History of Buddhism, Part 1, in the Materialien
zur Kunde des Buddhismus, Heidelberg, 1931.

10.

IH.

19.

OBITUARY NOTICE 213

The Sublime Science of the Great Vehicle to Salvation,
a translation of Utiaratantra of Bodhisattva Maitreya with
the commentary of Asanga, Acta Orientalia, Vol. IX,
1931.

The Doctrine of Prajfié Pdramitaé, as exposed in the
Abhisamayalamkara of Maitreya, Acta Orientalia, Vol.
XI, 1932-33.

Bu-ston’s History of Buddhism, l], Materialien zur Kunde
des Buddhismus, Heidelberg, 1932.

The Account of Buddha’s Nirvana and the first Councils
according to the Vinayaksudraka, Indian Historical
Quarterly, Vol. V, Ll.

A Study of Twenty Aspects of Sinyata, Indian Historical
Quarterly, vol. IX, 1933.

Analysis of the Abhisamayalamkdra, Fasciculus I,
Calcutta Oriental Series, 24.

Nirvana according to Tibetan Tradition, Indian Histori-
cal Quarterly, 1934.

On the meaning of the term ‘Sdinyata’, Journal of the
Greater India Society, July, 1934.

A review of the Madhydntavibhagasiitrabhdsya-tikd,
Indian Historical Quarierly, December, 1933.
Bhdvand-karma as an historical document. Calcutta,
1935.
Bu-ston’s History of Buddhism and the Mafijusri-mila-
tantra, JRAS., London, 1935. a

A. review of Goddard's Principle and Practice of
Mahayana Buddhism, 1935. OLZ., No. 15.

A review of Winternitz’s A History of Indian Literature,
Vol. II, Orientalische Literatur Zeitung, Leipzig, 1935.
Sphutartha-Abhidharmakogavydkhya edited by Prof. U.
Wogihara and Prof. Th. Stcherbatsky and carried
through the press by E. E. .Obermiller, Bibliotheca
Buddhica, XX], 1931. )

Additional Indices to the Doctrine of Prajfia Paramita
as exposed in the Abhisamayalamkara of Maitreya, Acta

Orientalia, Vol. XI. 1933.
TH. STCHERBATSKY

NOTES

Last year the Greater India Society had to mourn the
loss of one of its patrons, the late lamented Raja Reshee
Case Law. The ranks of the Society's patrons have been
still further thinned by the death, in May 1936, of Sir
Rajendra Nath Mookerjee. The Society owes a deep debt
of gratitude to both these departed souls whose generosity
helped it to overcome the initial struggles of its existence.

The Greater India Society has profited, as in former
years, by the generous donations of the National Council of
Education, Bengal, and of Dr. Narendra Nath Law amount-
ing to Rs. 500/- and Rs. 100/- respectively.

The Greater India Society has entrusted Mr. Himansu
Bhusan Sarkar, M.A., with the task of bringing out an
authorised English translation of Dr. N. J. Krom’s Hindoe-
Javaansche Geschiedenis. The Society takes this opportu-
nity to convey its sincere thanks to Dr. Krom not only for
authorising the translation, but also for undertaking te add
his own notes to make it quite up-to-date.

The Society hopes at once to take up its announced
publication, a work of Dr. G. Tucci called ‘Travels of
Tibetan Pilgrims in the Swét Valley’, illustrated with plates.

Extracts from the Annual Report of the
Greater India Society (1935-36)

General

With the year 1935-36 the Greater India Society entered
upon the ninth year of its existence. The record of the
Society's activities during this year, though not marked by
any dramatic developments, was, on the whole, one of
steady progress.

ANNUAL REPORT 215

Management

The constitution of the Managing Committee remained
unchanged during the course of the year. The Committee
had, however, to mourn the loss of one of its oldest patrons,
the late lamented Raja Reshee Case Law. As in the pre-
ceding year, the important business of the Committee was
disposed of, as the occasion arose, by circulation among its
members. During the year the Hony. Secretary continued
to act as the editor of the Society’s Journal in addition to
his usual duties. The composition of the Journal Committee
remained the same as at the beginning of the year and it
exercised its functions according to the occasion.

Office

As in the preceding year, the office establishment was
kept at the minimum strength. There was, however,
a slight increase in the cost, as the clerk Babu Gaurikinkar
Banerjee, received an increment of Rs. 40/- only
as his annual honorarium. The Committee owes a debt
of sincere thanks to Mr. P. K. Sen, Chartered Accountant
and a Calcutta University lecturer, for his honorary services
as the auditor of the Society's accounts. The Committee
takes this opportunity to thank Mr. Haridas Banerji of the
Government Commercial Institute for the kind offer of his
services as honorary auditor, which, however, could not be
acted upon as the permission of the Head of the Depart-
ment did not reach the Secretary in time. During the year
it was possible, thanks to the generous help of the Executive
Committee of the Post-Graduate Department of the Calcutta
University and especially of its worthy President, Mr. Syama-.
prasad Mookerjee, to transfer the Society's accumulated stock
of books, pericdicals, reports, etc., to the Asutosh Building of
the University, where it was kept in a separate almirah,
which also was a gift of the University. The arrangement
and preliminary listing of this collection were taken in hand
by the Hony. Assistant Secretary,

Pr eller eee

216 ANNUAL REPORT

Members and Subscribers

The number of members on the Society's rolls on the
31st March, 1936, was the same as in the preceding year.
The number of subscribers to the Society’s Journal showed
a slight decrease. Though this loss cannot but be disquiet-
ing, the Committee recalls with gratitude the continued
patronage extended to it in the form of multiple subscriptions
by the Governments of Baroda, Mysore, Travancore and
Gwalior as well as the provincial Government of Assam.
The Committee takes this opportunity to record its deep
sense of sorrow at the death of Dr. E. Obermiller who was
its Honorary member and one of the most active contribu-
tors to its Journal from the very start.

Lectures

Ten public lectures were delivered during the year
under the joint auspices of the Greater India Society and the
National Council of Education, Bengal. The range covered
by these lectures may be judged from the subjoined list of
subjects to which is attached the name of the lecturer in
each case :—‘Origin of Vedic ritual’ (by Dr. B. K. Ghosh),
‘Some Problems of Indology’ (by Dr. S. K. Chatterjee),
‘Visits to Siam, Cambodia, Java, Bali and Kailas’ (by Swami
Sadananda),—‘Firdausi and India’ (by Mr. Md. Ishaque),
‘Brhattara Bharata’ (by Mr. D. P. Ghosh). In addition to
the above, a condolence meeting was held with Mr. P.
Chaudhuri in the chair and the Consul-General of France
attending, to mourn the death of Professor Sylvain Lévi of
revered memory. The Committee takes this occasion
to thank the authorities of the National Council of Educa-
tion, Bengal, for meeting, as in former years, the charges at-
tendant on helding the meetings.

Publications

One issue of the Journal (Vol. I], No. 2) appeared during
the year, while the following issue, which was brought out
as the Sylvain Lévi Memorial Number, was unavoidably

gins wastes BER

ANNUAL REPORT 217

delayed in publication till May, 1936, owing to the necessity
of obtaining papers from Ceylon, Indo-China, Holland,
France and America. During the year Dr. G. Tucci of the
University of Rome offered for publication by the Society
his work called—‘Travels of Tibetan Pilgrims in the Swat
Valley’ and the Society gladly accepted the offer. Unfor-
tunately, the work could not be taken up for publication,
as the author failed to send his revised MS. in time.

During the year the Hony. Secretary arranged to give
effect to the resolution of the Committee requesting Dr. B.
Ch. Chhabra to undertake, on behalf of the Society, an
English translation of Dr. Krom’s Hindoe-Javaansche Geschi-
edenis. But the arrangement fell through owing to the in-
ability of Dr. Chhabra to take up the work. The transla-
tion has since been undertaken at the Committee’s instance
by Mr. Himansu Bhusan Sarkar, Dr. Krom having agreed
not only to authorise the work but also to revise the MS.,
when completed, and bring it up-to-date.

Library

The Committee views with satisfaction the success of
the Society in gradually building up a nucleus of up-to-date
publications on Greater India obtained mostly ag exchanges
or review-copies for its Journal. Not to speak of exclusively
Indological Magazines, the Society is now on the regular ex-
change list of the following standard periodicals on Greater
India and connected studies:—(i) Djawa, (ii) Bulletin de
l'Ecole Francaise d’Extr€me-Orient, (ii) Ostasiatische Zeits-
chrift, (iv) Zapiski, (v) Tijdschrift voor Indische Taal-, Land-,
en Volkenkunde, and (vi) Archaeological Survey of Ceylon
Memoirs. The Society also regularly receives publications
of the following institutions :—Koninklijke Vereeniging
Koloniaal Instituut, Instituut fiir Volkerkunde der Universitat
Wien, Institut des Etude Orientales d'Académie Sciences,
(USSR), Koninklijke Bataviaasch Genootschap van Kunsten
en Wetenschappen. Among individual scholars who have
fovoured the Society with gifts of their publications may be
mentioned Baron A. von Stdel-Holstein, Dr. G. Tucci,

218 ANNUAL REPORT

Dr. A. K. Coomaraswamy, Prof. Louis de la Vallée Poussin,
Dr, M. Winternitz, Prof. K. A. Nilakanta Sastri and Dr. R.
O. Winstedt. A notable acquisition of the Society's collec-
tion, during the year was a complete set of ‘“Djawa’’ kindly
presented by the Java-Instituut at Batavia.

Conclusion

In concluding this brief report of the last year’s working,
the Committee cannot but again express its very sincere
thanks to those friends and well-wishers whose assis-
tance has enabled the Society to win its slight success. Men-
tion has been made in another place of the generous dona-
tions of the National Council of Education, Bengal, and Dr.
Narendranath Law as also of the valued assistance of the
Society’s Hony. auditor for the year, Mr. P. K. Sen. But
the list is far from being exhaustive. To Mr. Ramananda
Chatterjee, Editor of the “‘Modern Review’’, and to Dr.
Narendra Nath Law, Editor of the “Indian Historical Quar-
terly’’, the Society is indebted for free advertisements of its
publications in their well-known’ magazines.- Dr. Law has
laid the Society under an additional obligation by allowing
a substantial discount on the printing charges owed by it to
the Calcutta Oriental Press. The Committee, however, feels
that the Society has not yet emerged out of the struggles of
its infancy. It is perhaps idle to expect that the Society's
dream of possessing a permanent home filled with a repre-
sentative collection of literary works, charts, photographs
etc., relating to Greater India, will be fulfilled even in the
near future. But, as was said in the Annual Report of the
last year, the Society is urgently in need of a reserve fund.
Money is also badly needed for purchase of some
furniture. Above all, recruits are needed not only
for shouldering the growing business of the Society,
but also for improving the standard of its Journal so as to
make India’s part in the elucidation of the culture of Greater
India worthy of its heritage. The Committee appeals to
every lover of Indian culture to rally round its banner and it
eamestly trusts that its. appeal will not go in vain.

Publications of Cognate Interest in Other

Journais

Djawa: iéde Jaargang No. 1, 2 en 3, 1938.

Colin McPhee-—The Balinese wajang koelit and its
music. The author gives here a detailed description
of the famous puppet shadow-plays of Bali. The
stories of these plays are mostly drawn from the
Ramayana or the Mahabharata.

Walter Spies—Bericht iiber den Zustand von Tanz und
Musik in der Négara Gianjar.

The author gives interesting details about the old
dances and music of Négara Gianjar in Bali. Only
this district is said to have preserved in its pristine
purity the ancient dances and music of Bali; but the
author deplores that even here Western influence
has begun to do havoc.

W. F. Stutterheim—Enkele Oudheiden van Bali. (1) The
author discusses here a pillar on the south
coast of Bali bearing an inscription of king Sri
Kegarivarmadeva dated 917 A.D. This inscription is
written partly in Devanagari script and partly in Old-
Javanese script. The most astonishing feature of this
inscription is that the portion in Old-Javanese script
contains Sanskrit words and the portion in Devanagari
script contains Old-Javanese words. The inscription
records an expedition to Moluccas. (2) The second anti-
quity discussed by the author is alarge relief found
near Bédoeloe and (3) the third monument is a grotto
near Tabanan. ,
R. Goris—Enkele Mededeelingen Nopens de Oorkonden
gesteld in het Oud~Balisch. . So

“The author here gives a_ bird’s-eye view of the
languages and dialects in which the Old-Balinese records

220 PUBLICATIONS OF COGNATE INTEREST IN JOURNALS

are written. The most ancient records are written
in Sanskrit; but from 882 A.D. to 1072 A. D. both
Sanskrit and Old-Balinese are used. Afterwards Old-
Javanese is the only language used, presumably as a
consequence of the marriage of the Balinese ruler
Udayana with a Javanese princess. Javanese remains
the language of court and literature for a long time.
Even Modern “‘high’’ Balinese bears the clear impress of
contact with Old-Javanese.

Journal of the Burma Research Society, Vol. XXVI, pt. I 3

Pe Maung Tin-—Buddhism in Inscriptions of Pagan.

ibid. Pt. i.

W. 5S. Desai—History of the Burmese Misson to India,
October, 1830, to July, 1833.—Based on Indian Office
MS. of Col. Henry Burney, Resident in Burma.
Describes the experiences of two Burmese envoys
who travelled from Ava, via Calcutta, Benares,
Allahabad and Cawnpore, to Agra and back again to

Ava via Patna, Bodh Gaya and Calcutta.

star lan Aw patens SF

et

Ceylon Journal of Science (Sec. G, Archaeology, Ethnology etc.),
Vol. tl Pt. 3 |

S. Paranavitana—Archaeological Summary: Brickwork \
[description with drawings of various types of
bricks shown by letters engraved on them to belong
to the early centuries A. D.]—Evolution of the Stipa
[extant specimens show that in Ceylon the _ earliest
stupas followed the Indian model, consisting of the
harmmik&é and above it an umbrella or series of
umbrellas in stone supported by  stone-posts; but an
important change took place about the 5th century
A. D. when there was developed above the harmmiké
the cylindrical structure called devatakotuva which was
evolved from the base of the chatradanda, and above

coat RR

PUBLICATIONS OF COGNATE INTEREST IN JOURNALS 221

the devatad-kotuva the tapering spire which was nothing
but the old chatrdvali with the space between the
umbrellas filled with brickwork]—Sionework [extant
Brahmi inscriptions on pillars show that stone pillars
were in vogue at least as early as the beginning
of the Christian era. This supports the statements
in the chronicles and disproves Mr. Hocart’s view
that stone pillars were introduced in Ceylon about the
8th century.]—Sculpiure [description, with plates, of a
new type of moon-stone, of a colossal Parinirvana
Buddha of the 9th or 10th century A.D., of an image of
Visnu, which is described as one of the best examples of
Hindu stone image found in Ceylon]~-Paintings
[description of three Buddhist cave-paintings ascribed
to the first half of the [2th century]—Hindu Temples
[Mention of a Saiva shrine ascribed to the Pandyan
epoch].

Journal Asiatique, t. COXXVII, No. I, Juilet—September, 1935.

Lin LieXouang—-Punyodaya (Na-t’i), un propagateur du
Tantrisme en Chine et au Cambodge & lépoque de
Hiuan-tsang: Gives a biography of the Indian Buddhist
monk Punyodaya who arrived in China from Middle
India in 655 A.D. with a collection of Sanskrit MSS.
triple the size of that brought back by Hiuan-tsang in
645 A.D. Also analyses Punyodaya’s two surviving
works, viz., the Chinese translation of the sdira of the
octuple mandala otherwise called Simhavyiiharaja- 4
bodhisattva-pariprecha-sitra and the Vimala-jndna- tesla | {
bodhisattva-pariprechd. 3 3 | 2 ben |

Bulletin de I’Ecole Francajse wExtreme-Orient,
t. XXXIV, 1934, Fase. 2
Coral-Rémusat, Goloubew and Ccedés—La date du Td

Kéo- Mme. Coral-Rémusat discusses here the probable
dates of the various parts of Ta Kév:—In architecture it

|
| ;
i

222 PUBLICATIONS! OF COGNATE INTEREST IN JOURNALS

is posterior to Pré Rup and anterior to Baphtion.. The
colonettes are certainly posterior to Pré Rup and Bantéy
Sréi and anterior to the gopura of the royal palace.
The author cencludes that the Ta Kév could have been
constructed only in the latter part of the 10th or the first part
of the [1th century. M. Goloubew adds some notes on the
details of the plan which go to support the thesis of Mme.
Coral-Rémusat and M. Gcedés brings to it additional support
from epigraphical evidence.

Constantin Régamey—Bibliographie Analytique des
Travaux relatifs aux éléments anaryens dans la civilisation
et les langues de 'Inde: The author modestly says in the
preface that he has confined himself here only to point-
ing out the chief works concerning the relations of the
Mundas and Dravidians with the other races and linguistic
groups of India. Particular attention has been paid
naturally to more recent works. It will be certainly very
useful to every student of Indian history, ethnology,
religion, mythology etc. A classified index has greatly
enhanced the value of the work.

Philippe Stern—Le Temple-montagne Khmér. Le Culte
du Lihga etle Devaraja: The author points out that from
the earliest period to the time when the type of the Khmér
temple was definitely fixed, the temple-mountain was
connected woth the liga. He discusses further the possible
relations between the cult of the liaga and that of Devardja.

Ibid ,XXXV, 19385, Fasc. 1

H. Parmentier—Comlpément 4 l'’Art khmér primitif: The
author here gives valuable supplements to his renowned
work on primitive khmér art. .

Robert Dalet—Dix-huit mois de Recherches archeologi-
ques au. Cambodge: A detailed report of an archaeological
survey of eighteen months in Cambodge.

B. G.

PUBLICATIONS: OF COGNATE INTEREST IN JOURNALS 223
Ostasiatische Zeitschrift, 1935, 5. Heft.

Josef Strygowski—Der Amerasiatische kunsistrom.

The renowned art-historian gives here a short but
brilliant survey of his own and his pupils’ works proving
the existence of an ‘‘Amerasiatic”” art at a very early period
in Siberia which has influenced the Indo-European art on
the one hand and the Red-Indian art of America on the
other. Traces of this ‘‘Amerasiatic’’ art may be found even
in some traits of Indian art in the opinion of the author.

Helen B. Chapin—A study in Buddhist Iconography.

The writer describes here an unusual type of image of
Cintamani-cakra Avalokiteévara from Japan in the Museum
ftir Vélkerkunde in Berlin.

Ibid,, 1935, 6, Heft.

Anton Hoenig—Der Stammbaum des Borobudur.

The author again propounds here his old theory that
the Candi-Borobudur was originally a pyramid of nine
stories with a comparatively small upper platform which
carried not a stitpa but a temple. The present plan replac-
ed the older one when in course of construction it became
necessary to Jessen the pressure of the weighing masses on
the hillock. [The highest authorities on the subject, Bosch
and Stutterheim, are however, quite sceptical about this
theory, though, the author has found a supporter in
Coomaraswamy. | :

B. G.

BOOKS RECEIVED

The Greater India Society acknowledges with thanks the

h

13.

14.

15.

16.
17,

receipt of the following books, periodicals, reports
pamphlets etc. during the last six months.
Flamen-Brahman: By Georges Dumézil, Paris, 1935.
Indian Historical Quarterly, Vol. XII, No. I, Calcutta,
1936.

Journal of Indian History, Vol. XIV, Pt. 3; Vol. XV,
Pt. I, Madras, 1935. .

Annals of the Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute,
Vol. XVII, No. 2, Poona, 1936.

The Buddha-Prabha, Vol. 4, No. 2, Bombay, 1936.

Sti Jaina Siddhanta Bhaskara (The Jaina Antiquary),
Vol. 3, No. 1, Arrah, 1936.

Aanwinsten van het Koninklijk Koloniaal Institaui,
No. 8, Amsterdam, 1936.

Tijdschrift voor Indisch Taal-, Land-, en Volkerkunde,
deel LXXVI, afl. 3, Batavia, 1936.

Journal of the Malay Branch RAS, Vol. XIV, Pet. Uf,
Singapore, 1936.

Ostasiatische Zeitschrift, N.F., iW Jahrg., heft 6,
Berlin, 1935.

Bulletin de TEcole Francaise d’Extréme-Orient, t.

XXXIV, Fasc. 2, Hanoi, 1935,

Nouvelles Recherches author du Phnom Bakhén:
By Victor Goloubew, Hanoi, 1935.

Annual Report of the Varendra Research Society for
1934-35, Rajshahi, 1936. .

The Sitra of the Lord of Healing (Bhaisajyaguru
Vaiduryaprabha Tathagata), Peiping, 1936.

The Decline and Fall of Morals: By Nicholas Murray
Butler, New York, 1936.

Agastyaparwa: By J. Gonda, Utrecht, 1936.
Oudheidkundige Vondsten in Palembang: By, F. M.
Schnitger. :
REPRINTS FROM THE J.G.LS. 225

18. Addenda en Corrigenda to above.

19. De Groote Vleermuis van Tjeta (Midden-Java): By F.
M. Schnitger.

20. Four cuttings of ‘Deli lourant’: By F.M. Schnitger.

21. Quarterly Journal of the Mythic Society, Vol. XXVI,
Nos. 3 & 4, Bangalore City, 1936.

22. Dyjawa, |6de Jaarg., Nos. 1, 2, en 3, Jogjakarta, 1936.

23. The Study of Javanese Literature in India: By Gi.
Berg, Leyden, 1936.

24, Ceylon Journal of Science, (Sec. G), Vol. II, Contents
and Index, Colombo, 1936.

25. The Annamalai University Calendar, 1936-39, Madras,
1963.

REPRINTS FROM THE JOURNAL OF THE
GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

BHATTACHARYA (VIDHUSEKHARA), A Sanskrit Treatise by a
Tibetan Author, pp. 8.

CHHABRA (BAHADUR CHAND)}, Identification of Sti Visnuvarman
of the Perak Seal, pp. 5. hy

Coomaraswamy (A. K.), The Source of, and a Parallel to, fs , ul
Dionysius on the Beautiful. pp. 7. ey eater

GANGOLY (O.C.), On some Hindu Relics in Borneo. with 4
plates. pp. 7.

GEIGER (WILHELM), Contributions from the Mahavamsa to our i |
knowledge of the -Mediaeval Culture of Ceylon, pp. 23. : ao

GHosH (DEVAPRASAD), Migration of Indian Decorative Moti}s, :
pp. 10 with 2 plates. _ ii
Do. Sources of the Art of Srivijaya, pp. 7.

GHosH (MANomMoHAN), On the Source of the Old Javanese
Ramayana Kakawin. pp. 5.

Hackin (J.), Archaeological Explorations on the Neck of
Khair Khaneh (near Kabul), pp. 13, with 6 plates.

Majyumpar (R. C.), The Sailendra Empire, pp. 17.

Do. The Struggle between the Sailendras and
the Colas. pp. 21.
Do. Decline and Fall of the Sailendra Empire,

Bo. Tlie Melay, poi 11.

226 REPRINTS FROM THE J.G.1.S.

Nac (Kazipas), Sylvain Lévi and the Science of Indology.
pp. [5 with | plate.

OBERMILLER, (E), The term Sinyata and its different inter-
preiations, pp. 13.

Do. A Sanskrit MS. from Tibet,—Kamala-
gila’s Bhivand-krama, pp. 11.

Do. A Sanskrit Manual of Tsonkhapist worship,
pp. 3.

PaRANAVITANA, (S.), The Kdlinga Dynasty of Ceylon. pp. 8.
PrzyLuski (J.), The Sailendravaméa, pp. 12.

Do. Indian Colonisation in Sumatra, pp. 10.
Do. Greater India and the work of Sylvain Lévi.
pp. 3.

Sarkar (HimMANSU BHusAn), An Old Javanese Inscription from
Penampihan of the Saka year 1191, pp. 16.

Do. Ten Old Javanese Copper-plates
Do. Literary and Epigraphic Notes,
from Sidoteka of the Saka year 1245. pp. 28

Do. Literary and Epigraphic Notes.
pp. 5. .

For prices apply to the MANAGER, GREATER INDIA
SOCIETY, 21 Badur Bagan Row, Calcutta.

Printed and Published by Sj. J. C. Sarkhel, at the Calcutta Oriental Press,

9, Panchanan Ghose Lane, Calcutta.
Select opinions on “INDIAN INFLUENCES
ON THE LITERATURE OF
JAVA AND BALI’

By Himansu Bhusan Sarkar, M.A.
(Pp. 415—Price Rs. 6/-)
Dr. Th. Pigeaud in the Djawa, XV :—

“By his acquaintance with Indian literature, an Indian
author such as-Mr. Sarkar is most probably much more com-
petent than another to recognise Indian elements in Javanese
stories and to indicate their possible source............ Mr. Sarkar
has already made a profitable use of some Old-Javanese texts,
by clarifying and explaining these things, from his knowledge
of Sanskrit literature. It appears to me that the progress
of Indian writers, such as Mr. Sarkar, im this direction, that
of literary text-criticism and detail, is most promising for
the enhancement of our knowledge of Javanese literature.”’

(Translated)

Dr, M. Winternitz in course of a long review Archiv

Orientalni, (VII, 2, 1936), writes :—

_ “Mr. Sarkar’s is the first comprehensive attempt of
viewing the problem of Indian influences on the literature
of Java and Bali from the point of view of the history of
Sanskrit literature and Indian culture....,.............0- Not only
the Indologist who wishes to follow up the fates of Indian
literary achievements on their wanderings outside India, but
also the ethnologist to whom the study of mixture of cultures
is a subject of intrinsic interest, will find Mr. Sarkar’s book
an excellent guide through the maze of Indo-Indonesian
cultural relations. We hope this valuable publication which
appears as No. | of the Greater India Society’s new series
of ‘‘Greater India Studies,” may soon be. followed by other
as interesting studies.”

Dr. George Coedés writes in the BEFEO. :—

‘‘The author passes successively in review the diverse
branches of this literature giving in a few cases sufficient
detailed summaries of the principal texts. On this point the
author has done real service not only to his compatriots
desirous of knowing the expansion of their national literature
but also to those who do not read Dutch.”

(Translated}

To be had of-—

The Manager, Greater India Society,
21, Badur Bagan. Row,
CALCUTTA. :

women ae FTF

Journal of the Greater India Society
Contents of Vol. II, No. I (Sylvain Lévi Memorial Number)

V. Bhattacharya—Pragasti; Kalidas Nag—Sylvain Lévi
and the Science of [Indology; J« Przyluski—Greater India
and the work of Sylvain Lévi; ds Hackin—Archaeolo-
gical explorations on the neck of Khair Khaneh (near
Kabul); A. K. Goomaraswamy—The source of, and a
parallel to, Dionysius on the Beautiful; S$. K. Ghatterji—
Non-Aryan elements in Indo-Aryan; D. P. Ghosh—
Sources of the Art of Srivijaya; |S» Paranavitana—The
Kalinga Dynasty of Ceylon; G. Geedes—A Date of

[éanavarman I]: The Inscriplion of Ttéol Kul (Province
_ of Mong, Cambodia); vW. L. Swellengrebel—On the
-Old-Javanese Korawaésrama; R. 6. Majumdar—The
Malay; 0. C. Gangoly—On some Hindu relics in Borneo;

K. A. Nilakanta Sastri—A South Indian Portrait Bronze
from Sumatra; HH. 8. Sarkar—Literary and epigraphic

notes; WManomohan Ghesh—On the source of the Old-

Javanese R&mdyana Kakawin ; Notices of, Books,

12 plates etc.

Published twice a year, in January and in July.

Annual subscription Rupees four and eight annas or eight

‘shillings and six pence only inclusive of postage: Agents

outside India: Messrs. Luzac & Co., 46 Great Russell Street,
London, W.C. I.

indian Influences on the Literature of Java and Bali
(Greater India Studies No. I.)
By Himansu Bhusan Sarkar, M.A.
Research Scholar in History, Dacca. University.
, CONTENTS
CTAPTER | — . Pack
- ¥. Barly Indo-Javanese contact and the dialects of the
1f. Saered Literature—(A) the Vedas,

(B) the Brahmdadndapurdina Be wee ~ 7
TIT. Sacred Literature, contd,—Some other works of

Purdnic character _ - er vee ww. «=k
IV. Sacred Literature, conéluded.—the Stirya-sevanad.

Mantras end charms... . be: A] «2 = |) OEE

V. The Agama or Dharmasdstras of Indonesia ... wv «Cs.

VI. Wueriga and connected literature .. wel we =106
VII. Itihdsa or Epic works—-The Rdnsiyana Kokawin .. 170

VILLI. Ltifdsa or Epic works, contd.—the later Rdmdiyanas .., 196
IX. dtihdsa or Epie works, contd.—Ramayana

recensions in stone texts wae nr . «212
X. Itihdsa or Epic works, contd.—the Ramayana-cycle

; of stories in Nawi 0... 00 ee Ls « a. 224
XI. . Itihdsa-or Epic works, contd.—the Mahabharata w. 282

XII... ftihdsa or Bpic works, concluded
- he Mahdbhadrata-cycle of stories wee ... 263
XIE. The Epic Literature and Wuyang stories... .. «287
XIV. Miscellaneous works of Java and Bali te w. 807
XV. Legends and romances of Java and Bah... a. 338
XVI. The Tantri Kamandaka and other beast-fables wee OOF
XV. Inscriptions and Historical Literature | wt B84.
XVIUL. Conclusion «a. , a wes vee, O86
Additional Notes re eee bee ov 2A* 399
Index cee as oar oer wee 408
Addenda et Corrigenda A413

Price Rupees Six only: Postage extra:

Fe
3,

4,
5

1.

a

$

5

§,

t.
2.

1.

3.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE

Greater India Society

BULLETINS

Greater india—By Dr. Kalidas Nag, (to be re-issued), ;
india and China—By Dr. Prabodh Chandra Bagchi (to, be 7e-isswed),
indian Culture in Java and Sumatra—Revised and enlarged edition. Part I,

Tezt—By Dr. B. R. Chatterji; Part IT, Jnsecriptions—By Dr. N, P,
Chakravarti and Dr. B. R. Chatterjee Rs. 2,
india and Central Asia—By Dr. N. P. Chakravarti (é0 be re-issued),

Ancient Indian Culture in Afghanistan—By Dr. U. N. Ghoshal

PUBLICATIONS

Ancient indian Colonies in the Far East—Vol. J, CHAMPA—By Dr. R.
C, Majumdar Ris. 15.

Hindu Law and Gustem—(Only authorized English translation of Dr,
Julius Jolly’s Recht und Sitte)—By Dr. B. K. Ghosh. —° Rs. 10-8

Social Life in Ancient tndia—-(Studies in Vatsyayana’s Kamastitra,—By |
Prof, H. 0. Chakladar. ™ me Oe
Pratima Laksanam (Sanskrit and Tibetan)—By Prof. P. N. Bose. ae

; a tow Rs. 4,
Indian Literature in China and the Far East—By Prof. P. K. Mukherji.
indo-Javanese-History (only authorised English translation of Dr. N. J. dis

Krom’s Hindoe-Javaansch Geschiedenis—By Himansu Bhusan Sarker, M.A.

2 sere

GREATER INDIA STUDIES

indian Influences on the Literature of Java and Bali—By Himansu
Bhusan Sarkar, M.A. Rs. 6, "
Travels of Tibetan Pilgrims to the Swat Valley—By Dr. Giuseppe Tucci, {
(lo be undertaken shortly). }

a ee

OTHER PUBLICATIONS

bea an

Indian Colony of Siam—By Prof, P. N., Bose. Rs. 3-8, .
ZEA ALA (Hindi edition of Bulletin No. 1.) (To be re-issued). hee
{EF SITS (Bengali edition of Bulletin No, 1.) » Re 1.

Pace

# vreau Gk ae nee Oe SE

To be had of the GREATER INDIA SOCIETY'S Office
21, BADURBAGAN ROW, P.O. AMHERST STREET,
‘CALCUTTA

