¢

Serer

SR OE:

Sree met ancenmnn HSYR op en  E

Ose

EDITED BY

U. N. GHOSHAL

VOL. V; 1938

%
serum avaby sag AM a
i" ¢ 5
Btu é
i ‘
Tal, ‘ ri ie” .

Published by the Greater India. Society.

CALCUTTA
AGB ay

THE ,
JOURNAL OF THE GREATER INDIA SOCIETY
Vor. V (1938)

i
id
i

CONTENTS

Articles: Page
Contributions from the Mahdvamsa to our knowledge
of the mediaeval culture of Ceylon (Dr. Wilhelm

Geiger) — 7 ws .. 1,93
Copper-plates of Kembang Arum, 824 Saka (Mr. H. )
B. Sarkar) a wee aes doe 31
Epigraphic notes (Dr. D. C. Sircar) i “ae 154
 Indo-Javanese images in Berlin, Amsterdam, and
- London Museums (Dr. F. M. Schnitger) ws 22
i Kataha (Prof. K. A. Nilakanta Sastri)... ee 128
atahanagara in the Kaumudimahotsava (Dr. D. C.
- Sircar) ae oe ws ey
New drama of Agvaghosa (Prof. V idhushekhara
5

Bla paphars)y,. ee bas -
(Mr. J. N. parties) Ba | wes oA 54

. Ghoshal) _ a a Mee 56
s strapalanafaka of Agvaghosa (Dr. E. H. Johnston) 151

me notes on the kingdom of Dvaravati (Dr. H. G. ;
, | 24

; Quaritch Wales) a ae alk

Some Indian parallels of Lokegvara types in Indo-
China (Dr. U. N. Ghoshal) 5 2 147
Notices of Books _ , .. 61, 159
169

Editorial Notes ... Sia | se
uary (Mr. N. G. pile a ee oe 157

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS

Page
Banerjea, Mr. Jitendra Nath, A note on the
Indian prototypes of the Papar relief #. 34
Bhattacharya, Prof. Vidhushekhara, A new
drama of Agvaghosa se ea vee 5]
Ghoshal, Dr. U, N., Note on a type of
Lokegvara in Cambodge ..- aus ws 56
Some Indian parallels of Lokegvara types in
Indo-China... = ve 147
Geiger, Dr. Wilhelm, Contributions from the
Mahavamsa to our knowledge of the mediaeval
culture of Ceylon wae bes wy by YS
Johnston, Dr. E. H., Rastrapdlandiaka of
Agvaghosa«.. wes bes aes 15]
Sarkar, Mr. Himansu Bhusan, Copper plates of
Kembang Arum ne =a os 3]
Sastri, Prof. K. A. Nilakanta, Katdha ... eee 128
Schnitger, Dr. F. M., Indo-Javancse images in
Berlin, Amsterdam and London Museums bs 22
Sirear, Dr. D. C., Katdhanagara in the Kaumudi-
mahotsava ies ee. vee ae 54
Epigraphic Notes . vee bee 154

Wales, Dr. H. G. Ceti Some notes on the
kingdom of Dedravati ... wal a Zt

ee ee

Sg ae caerecten SRR OT we

A meageet

MUM Abi Learn

THE JOURNAL

OF THE

GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

Vou V JANUARY, 1938 No: 1

Contributions from the Mahavamsa to our
knowledge of the Mediaeval culture
of Ceylon

By Dr. WILHELM GEIGER
(Continued from JGIS., Vol. IV, No. 2)
IV

7. System of Administration and iis development

44. As to the administration of the Sinhalese kingdom
during the mediceval times we do not learn much from the
Mahdvamsa. The priestly compilers of the chronicle,
Dhammakitti and his unknown successor, had no particular
interest in the matter in as much as the royal orders did not
concern the Buddhist community. Moreover we must bear
in mind that the two chroniclers were living, the first at the
end of the 12th, the second near the middle of the I4th
century. They may often have seen the past in the light
of their own times. The eventuality of an anachronism must
therefore sometimes be taken into consideration.

The points that we can glean from the Mahdvamsa are
confined to single casual notices. We are also able to draw
inferences from the titles of the numerous officers and
officials mentioned in the chronicle. But it would, for ins-
tance, be beyond my scope, if I should try to explain the

2 WILHELM GEIGER

technical terms in the inscriptions concerning the system
of land-tenure prevalent during the medizeval period with
the help of analogies from South India, or to enter into
similar intricate problems. For such subjects | must refer
to works like that of H.W. Codrington, 4 Short History
of Ceylon’ or of G. C. Mendis, Early Histery of Ceylon.”
i can only consider it as my task to supplement and
enlarge, and sometimes also to confirm, what those
works contain, by means of details taken from the Pali
chronicle.

Two facts must be pointed out in advance. There can
be no doubt that custom and tradition were all-powerful in
Ceylon, and that the village communities which represent
the lowest administrative units enjoyed much independence
of the central governments. The kings rarely interfered
with them, except perhaps when the royal officials visited
them annually to administer justice and to collect taxes
due to the king.” The Sinhalese were mostly agriculturists
and closely attached to their home and their soil. ‘Their
whole life was regulated and determined by the field-work,
and what they wanted was above all peace and order.
They were conservative, and old institutions could endure
unaltered through many centuries. even up to modern times.
Under such ciscumstances, administration in medizeval
Ceylon was more extensive than intensive, concerning the
totality of the people, but not penetrating too deeply into
the daily life of the individuals.

45. The Village-Community, as we said,

was the smallest unit in the administration of the Sinhalese

kingdom. The idea and the institution were brought to
Ceylon by the frst Aryan immigrants from their home in
North-Western India. ‘Tradition ascribes the establishment
of the village boundaries to Pandukabhaya, the fourth king

1 P. 42'sq., 67 sq.
3 G. C. Mendis, loc. cit., p. 56,

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 3
of the Island, i.e., to half-

10.103).

The affairs of the village-community were looked after
by the village-headman (gamanayaka, 68.53). We are not
informed by the chronicle whether he obtained his position
by inheritance, or was appointed by the ruler,
considered to be the king's property and the farmers were,
therefore, tenants who had to pay a tax (bali, kara) in return
for the protection they received from the king. In the
ancient Mahdvamsa a ‘labour-village’ (kammantagama,
23.4) is mentioned. We may suppose that the tenants of
such a village were liable to supply, besides the regular tax,
unpaid labour to the lord.

Frequently the revenue of a village was granted by the
king to a monastery or a temple. The large extent of
temple property was a feature of the medizeval times in _
Ceylon.” Parakkamabahu I is said to have granted
numerous villages to priests living in a fraternity (gana-
vasinam, 74.48). In 84.3 villages are mentioned which
belonged to the Buddha and the Doctrine (buddha-
dhamméyattagamd ), _ requisite-villages ( paccayaggama )
which had to provide a_ certain monastery. with the
four necessaries (seats, garments, food and medicines),
villages belonging to a priestly fraternity (gana-santaka-
gdmakd), and villages belonging to a parivena, i.e., toa
college where scientific studies were cultivated (pdrivenaka-
gama). G: am | pees

But villages were also granted to single individuals
(puggalikagama, 84.4), to a priest as well as toa layman.
The villages of the eight sanctuaries (afthdyatana-gamaka)
seem to have been given by the king to the eight grand
theras who were living in those sanctuaries (84.18). Often
services rendered to the king by an officer were rewarded
by the donation of avillage. No doubt the revenues of

mythical or legendary times (Mbps.,

The soil was

one or more villages were the salary of the officials, Such a

4 Codrington, |. c., p. 43. ,
4 WILHELM GEIGER

grant could be for life or also hereditary. In the latter case
the villages are called pavenigémd, the word paveni mean-
ing in this connection lineage, succession, and I think that
kula-santaka-gadma ‘village possessed by a family’ has the
same meaning. In 84.1 we meet with the expression Rula~
ppavenikdyatta-gGma. King Vijayabahu 1 (1059-1114) cave
to many authors of poems befitting gifts of money together
with hereditary villages, and King ParakkamabAhu I! re-
warded the services of his minister Devapatiraja by granting
him villages which he had founded as family property
(kula-santaka, 86.54). When in the Ilth century Kitti and
Buddha, two generals of prince Kassapa, the former dwell-
ing in the village Nlakkhakudriisa, the latter a native of
Maragalla, had expelled the Colas from Rohana, the prince
allowed them to utter a wish. We must suppose, | believe,
that from the two villages, as they are explicitly mentioned
in the chronicle, they took the revenues as their regular
salary, and we will understand that Buddha chose as his
wish a paveni-gama so that his privilege became hereditary
in his family. Kitti wished that his village should be ex-
empted from the duty it was liable to pay to the community
so that in future the revenues would accrue to him without
diminution (55.26 sq.).

46, The taxes were collected by officials who visited the
single villages (Vihvs., 87.50), probably on annual circuits.
But the chronicle does not tell us the percentage of the
lord’s share of the crop. It was perhaps not always the
same, but varying at different times. Grants were also
often resumed and transferred to another individual or
group of individuals if that was in the king’s interest.
King Vikkamabahu, [2th century, took the maintenance
villages which belonged to the community and gave
them to his attendants (61.54) in order to secure their
attachment to the crown. Oppression of the rustic people
occurred no doubt frequently. The gamakabhojakd, the
‘usagers of the village revenues’ were the picture of greedi-
ness (61.73). At the beginning of the twelfth century,

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 5

when Ceylon was divided into kingdoms, the rulers squeez-
ed out the whole people in their insatiable greed as sugar-
cane in a sugar mill by levying excessive taxes (61.53). The
people dwelling in places difficult of access even refused
to pay the dues formerly levied on them and dwelt indepen-
dently, each in his own district. (61.70-71). This was the
beginning of the kingdom's dissolution owing to extortionate
taxation.

Sometimes the kings den eatges telieved the distress of
their subjects by remitting the dues (36.26). In the so-called
Galpota inscription at Polonnaruva King Nissanka Malla
boasts of having remitted taxes for five years. They also en-
acted a law that in collecting revenue from lands and fields
the taxes should not exceed a certain amount fixed by the
law (Epigraphia Zeylanica Il, -p. 116). Vijayabahu, after-
wards Vijayabahu IV, as Mahddipada is said to have paid
the taxes for villages which were in distress from his own
purse (87.50).

In improving the cultivation of ny, country the rulers
never neglected their own interest, the increase of the
revenue. Parakkamabahu displayed an admirable activity
in constructing tanks and other works of similar kinds in
order to extend the cultivated area of his province Dakkhina-
desa (68°8 sq.). Thereby the new fields were made to yield
atax which was greater than the old taxes produced in
the kingdom. At the same time he brought it to pass that
the inhabitants of the country never more knew fear of
famine (68.54-55). He understood that the welfare of the
people and that of the crown went hand in hand. But his
chief aim was the improvement of his finances so that he
might be able to establish by war a universal dominion over
Lanka. He desired, however, that this should be obtained
without oppressing the people. |

47. It seems that the final form of administration was at
least in part the work of -Parakkamabahu. He carried it

through in Dakkhinadesa and transferred it to other provinces

after having obtained the supicmnacy over the whole island,
6 WILHELM GEIGER

There is an interesting passage in the Mahdvamsa
where his reforms in Dakkhinadesa are described (69.27 sq.).
Having examined the financial situation as it had been
under his predecessor, and having seen that the public
revenue was insufficient for realising his plans, he separated
the finance (atiha) and the army (bala) administration from
each other and made them over to two officials who occu-
pied the highest rank. He created in this way two chief
Ministries, a Ministry of War, anda Ministry for financial
administration. -

It is noticeable that this arrangement exactly corresponds
to the differentiation in the Kautaliya Arthagastra of danda
‘army and koga ‘treasury’ (B. Breloer, Staatsverwaliung
im alten Indien I,p. 407). ‘lt is by means of the treasury
and the army that the king can hold under his control both
his and his enemy's party’ (Kaut, |. 4. 1. tr. Shamasastry.
p. 9). We can take it for granted and it is confirmed also by
other observations that the Kautaliya was known in Ceylon
in the twelfth century and even earlier, and had some
influence upon its political development. We have seen
(para. 11 above) that the study of this work wasa part of
princely education.

In order to facilitate the work of the Home department
Parakkamabahu divided the province inte two halves,
Whilst the two chief ministers seem to have been appointed
personally by the ruler, the superintendents of the two halves
came to their position in regular advancement (kamdgata).
They must have the necessary expert knowledge and there-
fore work ‘their way up through the various grades of
service. |

Finally the ruler created what we may call royal
domains. He separated from the districts all land of extra-
ordinary value where pearls or precious stones were found
and appointed a special official who was entrusted with
its administration. This official had apparently the
same position as the Gkarddhyaksa of the Kautaliya
(11.11.30); his department was named antaranga-dhura,

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA ;

because he had to deal with the subterranean (or submarine)
elements or treasures. There can be no doubt that the
whole produce of the mines was royal revenue; the
work in the mines was probably done by slaves. Such
valuable land (sdratthdna) existed, asthe chronicle tells us,
in the pearl districts on the sea coast, in the district
Ratnadkara which corresponds to the modern Ratnapura,
‘city of jewels’, and in the mountainous province Malaya.

8 The State-officials

48. The number of state-officials who are mentioned in
the Mahdvamsa is really bewildering, and it is often difficult
to say whether such a term must be understood as a mere
rank or title, or should be associated with a public function
and strictly defined sphere of action. Even honorary titles
of this kind, which are spoken of above in para. 27, were
frequently conferred on officers in the army, as that of a
kesadhGtundyaka on the generals Kitti and Rakkha, and
that of a nagaragalla on Sankhadhatu (70.279-280). Gokanna;
an officer of king Gajabahu, and one of Parakkamabahu
named Kitti, had both the title nagaragiri; the title lankdpura
is given to other generals (66. 35; 76. 60; 70. 143; 72.39 sq.;
75. 181). In 76. 82sq., 77.3 sq. Lankapura is used as
personal noun of an officer in Parakkamabahu’s army.

Above all the two words saciva and amacca require some
remarks. The term saciva, to begin with, can hardly be
explained in a satisfactory way. It means nearly the same
as amacca, if we are told in some passages that the King
took counsel with his saciva (52.71 ; 54.67) and with his
amacca in others (70.77,80). Both words denote the King’s
councillors, and a similar general meaning must be assumed
when the chronicler says that the king employed in the
administration sacivad who were loyally devoted to him
(dalhabhaitino, 67. 90), or that he ordered the saciva to
perform such and such a work (68.:7,18) But in other
passages the term must be understood i in a more restricted
sense. The denomination at Gajabahu’ s general mentioned |

8 WILHELM GEIGER

above Gokanna-sacivo seems to have been his regular title
(63.34; 70.71,83). Of the two officers who expelled the Colas
from Rohana (cf. 48) to one, Kitti, the title saciva is given,
to the other, Buddha, the title amacca (55.26). Afterwards
(55.30), however, both are called sacivd, It will be advisable,
for the present, to take the term as a synonym of amacca
and to ascribe to it a general meaning such as ‘dignitary’.

As to amacca so much seems to be certain that it denotes
a rank, the supreme rank within the body of state-officials,
Generally the term is rendered by ‘minister’ but this
translation does by no means fit in with all or most passeges
where the word occurs in the chronicle. There were, of
course; ‘ministers’ in the Sinhalese kingdom, the chiefs of
a determined department, as we shall see below in 53.
But officers of the army are also styled amaccd, no doubt,
the highest among them, the commanders of a larger body
of troops. Gajabahu himself ranks the General Gokanna
among his amaccd (70.79), fortihed places are put under
the command of amaccd (70.135), and the whele body of
generals in Parakkamabahu’s army are comprehended in
the words mahd@maccd (72.96, 129) or muhdrmnaiia (72.70,
182). The commander-in-chief, General Mafiju, is stated to
have taken counsel in the field with his staff, and we meet
here with an interesting distinction of rank. The staff
consisted of amaccd and padhdnd, that is, of the comman-
ders and higher officers or staff-officers (74.169, 176, 179),
and I should propose to translate both terms in this way if
stress is laid upon their military character. Otherwise, if it
does not denote a minister, amacca may be rendered as
‘dignitary’.

49. | begin with the court-officials, and first with the
Sword-bearer (asiggdhaka or khaggasdhaka) and the
Umbrella-bearer (Chattaggahaka). They were of the highest
rank and often closely related to the king. King Mogealla-
nal, 496-513, appointed Silakadla sword-bearer and gave
him his sister to wife (MAus., 39.54); Aggabodhi Il’s, 60}-
611, sword-bearer was a kinsman of the Queen (42.42),

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 9

Sotthisena’s (5th cent.) umbrella-bearer was his son-in-law,
the husband of his daughter Samgha (38.1). By Moggallana
Ill, 611-17, the son of his Senapati was entrusted with the
office of the sword-bearer (44.43). Prince Parakkamabahu’s
sword-bearer and umbrella-bearer are mentioned together
in 66.29. We also meet with the titles chattagahakandtha
(59.16) and chattagahakandyaka (72.68). But! believe that
these forms are merely periphrastic ‘the official who is the
umbrella-bearer’? and ought not to be translated with
‘head of the umbrella-bearers’, for it seems that there was
always only one sword-bearer as well as one umbrella-
bearer at court.

Another court-office is that of the Treasurer (bhanddagaré-
dhikdrin). There was more than one treasurer in the royal
service. When Parakkamabahu ascended the throne, he
with the help of the treasurers of his predecessor exami-
ned the state of the finances (69.27). The scribes (lekhakd)
were subordinate officials in the treasury department. By
ordering his scribes to insinuate themselves with the
various groups of the king’s scribes Prince Parakkamabahu
could spy out in Pulatthinagara Gajabahu’s financial
situation (66.154-55). The kosthagarédhyaksah in the Kauta-
liya and as subordinate officials the lekhakah correspond to
the Sinhalese officials mentioned above (Kaut. 2.15.1, 2.9.
16; Shamasastry’s tr., pp. 112, 79). The mahdlekha ‘grand
scribe’ (52.33; 72.1, 161 etc.) was either the chief of the
scribes, or perhaps had to elaborate the royal edicts and
letters. We see from the Kautaliya (2.10, Shamasastry’s
tr., p- 80'sq.) that this function was considered to be of the
greatest importance. Several titles end in potthakin. Since
this word is obviously connected with poithaka, Sk. pustaka,
‘book’, we may suppose that they denote members of the
account-ofice who had to book the king’s receipts and
expenses. Such officials were the bhandGrapotthakin
(72.169) whose function must have been associated with
that of the bhandagarddhikarin, the Gdipotthakin (72.27,
160, 182, 207) or miélapotthakin (75.139-40), and the jivita-

io WILHELM GEIGER

potthakin (70.174, 318; 72.161). We are however unable to
definer the peculiar sphere of action for each of these
different potthakins. The sankhandyaka seems also to have
been an accountant, approximately corresponding to the
sankhydyaka of the Kautaliya (2.1 etc.). Strangely enough,
where all these titles occur in the chronicle, their bearers
are engaged in military operations.

There was a host of chamberlains (kaficukin) at court
with a chief-chamberlain (kaficukindyaka, 72.58) at the
head. The chamberlains are officials of lower rank stand-
ing onthe same level with barbers and cooks (63.33; 69.26;
70.44). By Parakkamabihu’s generals the chamberlains
were appointed for guarding Queen Sugalf’s treasures
seized by them in their victorious campaigns in Rohana
(75.176). The ‘Door-keeper’ (docdrika, 35.51) must also be
reckoned among the chamberiains.

50. Among the military officials the Sendpati holds the
foremost rank. Synonyms are camiipali, dhaljinipati,
seninda, sendndtha. The sendpacca (office of the sendpati)
was the most prominent office in the medizval Sinhalese
kingdom. ‘The position of the Sendpati in Ceylon exactly
corresponds to that of the Sendpati in India according
to the Kautaliya (2.33; p. 140°). There he is the highest
commander of the whole army and ranks with the heir-
apparent and the purohita (5.3, p. 243°, Shamasastry's tr.,
p. 307; O. Stein, Megasthenes und Kautilya, p. 158 sq.).

In the ancient time Arittha was the the sister's son
(bhdGgineyya) and the Sendpati of King Devanampiyatissa
(11.25); so also was Vasabha of King Yasaldlakatissa (35.59),
In the 5th century King Dhatusena also appointed his sister's
son Senapati (38°81). ‘I do not however think that the con-
clusion is warranted that this position was reserved for the
bhagineyya. He could indeed become Sendpati if he had the
necessary qualifications and if he possessed the confidence
of the monarch, but the king was not bound in his choice by
conditions of relationship’ (Cilavamsa, tr.. 1, p. xxvii).
Of course, the king will have first sought for the right man

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA "i

within the royal family. King Mahinda II, 772-92, entrusted
his own brave son Mahinda with the dignity of a Senapati,
he himself having been the Sendpati of his father Agega-
bodhi VI (48.78). Sena Ilanga, the Sendpati of King
Kassapa IV, 896-913, is also said to have been of royal line-
age (rdjavamsaja, 52.16). But our chronicle mentions a
whole series of Sendpatis by name without saying whether
and how they were related to the king. Migara was the
Sendpati of Kassapa | (39.6), Uttara, that of Moggallana |
(39.58), Vajira of Dappula II (49.80), Bhadda of Sena |
(50.82), Kutthaka of Sena II (51.88), Rakkhaka Hanga
of Dappula II (53. 11), Sena of Mahinda IV and Sena V
(54.13,58). Udaya, the later Sendpati of Sena V was
amacca (54.60) and Viduragga, the Senapati of Udaya IV,
10th century, was a ndyaka (53°46), ere the dignity of
Sendpati was conferred upon them. They came therefore
both from the body of officers. The Sendpati of Kittisiri-
megha was Sankha (64.22) who had to prepare the Upa-
nayana ceremony for young Parakkamabahu, but he was
afterwards killed by the prince (65.13 sq.). A great tumult
arose at this deed. Sankha’s successor in the dignity
was Deva (63.82). The same name is that of Parakka-
mabahu’s Sendpati; he was perhaps also the same person.
Deva plays an important part in Parakkamabahu’'s wars
with Gajabahu and the minor Manabharana, but he appears
to have come to a luckless end (72.138 sq.). !

‘No Sendpati is mentioned during the interval from the
death of Parakkamabahu | in the year 1186 to the reign of
Vijayabahu IV, 1271-73. Even Virabahu, the sister’s son of
Parakkamabahu II is not called Sendpati, though he was the
chief leader of the Sinhalese army in the war with the
Javakas (83.41). Vijayabahu IV’s Sendpati was Mitta
(90.219), who himself usurped the crown after the death
of his lord. But he was killed by Thakuraka, the chief
of Rajput mercenaries, and the heir-apparent ascended the
throne as Bhuvanekabahu | in the year 1273.

The two titles Sakkasendpati {or SakkasenGni) and

12 WILHELM GEIGER

Andhasendpati are dificult to explain. In the former, the
first part of the compound Sakka, seems to be the name
Sakra, commonly used inthe Pali literature for the god
Indra. The post of Sakkasendpati was granted by king
Kassapa V, 10th century, to his own son (52. 52 sq.); who
afterwards died during a campaign in South India. The
dignity was then conferred upon the son of the deceased
Sakkasenapati (52.79). Both. son and grandson of king
Kassapa, are mentioned in Sinhalese inscriptions with the

title Sak-maha-amati= Pali Sakkamahdmacca (Wickremas-
inghe, Epigraphia Zeylanica. 1, pp. 183,190 n. 7}; the
former is also called Sak-senevi in another lithic record (1.
I], p. 4lsq.). Here senevi clearly points to the office, and
maha-amati iPali mahd@macca) the rank.

As to Andhasendpati Buddhadatta Thera refers me to
the fact that Andhra is the name of a tribe in Southern
India. He thinks that the Andhasendpati was a commander
of Andhra mercenaries, but | believe that the expression
sendpatiis not suited for such an officer ; he would rather
have been called ndyaka. The title occurs only once
in the Mahdvamsa (41. 87). King Kittisirimegha, 6th
century, gave the rank of an Andhasendpati (andhasend-
pativhayam thdnaniaram) to Mahanaga who afterwards be-
came his successor.

51. Titles of officers in the army are not numerous
in the chapters describing the Sinhalese history before
the twelfth century. The Sendpati, of course, is often
mentioned, and some general expressions denoting a corn-
mander of troops are met with, as balandyaka or senddhi-
néyaka. Buta bewildering mass of such titles occurs in
the era of Parakkamabahu J. and it is difficult and some-
times impossible to deterrnine them in an accurate manner.

l begin with the two titles adhikGrin and adhindtha (or
adhindyaka). Here we are able to state that the rank
of the former was higher than that of the latter. It is
told in 70. 278 that Parakkamabahu after the subjection of
Gajabahu bestowed various distinctions upon his officers.

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 13

To the Adhinatha Mayageha he gave the rank of an
adhikdrin (adhikdripadam). That was no doubt an advance-
ment and adhikdrin denoted apparently the highest military
post. We can safely translate it with ‘general’ and adhindtha
perhaps with ‘commander’. The title damilddhikGrin must
therefore be understood as ‘general of the Damila merce-
naries’ (75. 20 sq. ; 76. 39 sq.) It seems, however, that both
titles were abbreviations of the longer titles lahkddhikarin
and latkddhinatha ‘General (Commander) of Lanka’, which
remind us of the French military title Maréchal de France.

We may addto what is stated above in 70. 278 that
another officer of Parakkamabahu, Rakkha by name, was
also distinguished by the general’s title at the same time,
for in chapter 70. 24, 98, 105, etc. up to 174he is called
lankaédhindtha, lankédhindyaka, lankGnatha, but from 70.
283 up to 72. 85-86 (where his death is narrated) latkddhi-
karin or in short adhik4Grin.

Kitti, the sankhakandyaka, was also made lankadhikarin
according to 70. 278. Before that time he was lankddhi-
ndatha (70. 205-20), but after it he is always denoted with
his new title (70. 316) or simply called general (70. 300 ;
72. 21, 122 sq. ; 74. 90-144).

We cannot say whether in the title camiindtha, literally
‘army-commander’, a peculiar rank is implied. It is given
toan officer named Rakkha, who must be distinguished
from the other Rakkha mentioned above. Perhaps the
chronicler himself wished to make this distinction by the
particular denomination. Rakkha is called camiindtha in
chapter 74. 41, 46, 55,66 and camiipati in 74.143 where
his death is reported. The title alternates with the syno- *
nyms dhajinindtha (74. 145) and sendndtha (74. 153), but
the same Rakkha is also called senddhindyaka (74. 42) and
even camiinathddhikdrin, probably because he was the
highest commander at that time and in that part of Rohana
which was the seat of war for his army-

What | said concerning camiindtha may also be applied
to the titles dandandyaka, dandadhindyaka, dandandtha,

14 WILHELM GEIGER

dandédhindtha. They are given to a third Rakkha (70. 3,
15, 19) in order to distinguish him from other officers bearing
the same name. The two brothers Kitti and Santkhadhatu
are commonly called dandandyaka-bhétaro (70. 279 sq.;
72. 36, 162, etc.). Weare inclined to assume that dandé-
dhindtha (‘adhindyaka) implies a higher rank than danda-
ndtha Cndyaka} and that both are of lower rank than the
adhikdrin. But frequently those titles are used to denote
officers inthe army. Thus. for instance, all the commanders
in both armies, that of Parakkamabahu and of his
enemies are comprehended by them in 70. 55, 64, 68, etc.
The word sdmanita, which will be discussed later on, has
also frequently that general meaning (6]. 63:70, 67; 74.
127 sq.). | quote the verse 74. 136:

tada Rakkhacamiindtho Kittindmédhirdari ca / |

tato Bhitddhikdri simantd cépare pi ca //

dees Gl and all the other officers.

I have noticed above that all the Potthakins men-
tioned in the chronicle were officers in the field. Moreover
the umbrella-bearer (chattagadhakandyaka} Komba of king
Gajabahu was entrusted in war with the defence of the
western-most province of Rajarattha (70. 60). The chief
of the chamberlains (kafcukindyaka) Rakkha commanded
an army in the Rohana campaign (75.20). The Grand
Scribe (mahdlekha) Mahinda (72. 1) was one of Parakkama-
bahu’s generals. We may infer, therefore, that in times
of war the command of troops was sometimes also commit-
ted to court-officials or to officials of the civil service,
provided they possessed the necessary qualification.

52. As in the civil service the gdmandyaka was in
charge of the village community, thus the ratthiya was the
Headman of a district (rattha), and the mandalika {or
mandalanayaka) the Chief of a canton (mandala). Fre-
quently the two are mentioned together. After the death
of king Aggabodhi VII, 8th century, the chiefs of the
cantons with the headmen of the districts (mandalika
saratihiyd) in the North Province refused to pay tribute to

f
’
4

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 15

the king (Mhvs., 48. 83). When prince Mahinda, who was
sent by king Udaya II, 885-896, with an army against the
rebels in Rohana, arrived at Guttasala, all the rustic people,
the chiefs of the cantons and the headmen of the districts
(jGnapada sabbe mandaliké ca ratthiya) came to meet him
and paid him homage (51. 109). The term: ratthiya corres-
ponds to Sanskrit rdstriya which is used from very ancient
times in India for chiefs who were in charge of provinces
(H. Ch. Ray, Dynastic History of Northern India |, p. 550),
Later on, however, in the chronicle the word ratthiya is
supplanted by samanta. The sGmanta are mentioned side
by side with the mandalika@ (70. 242, 246), as formerly the
ratthiya. Sdmanta has the general meaning ‘officer in the
army’ and it seems indeed that in Parakkamabahu’s era
the chief duty of the s@manté was a military one, that
is the organisation of the district militia.

The particular functions of the kammandtha or kamma-
ndyaka are not quite clear. Buddhadatta Thera has
suggested that he was a superintendent of public works.
The Kammandatha Arakkha (72. 58) and the Kammandyaka
Afijana (72.206) were officers in Parakkamabahu’s army,
and the latter was entrusted with the care of the two relics
of the Tooth and the Bow! after they had been carried away
from the Rohana rebels (74. 168).

As the last but not the least among the civil officials, the
Headman of the Merchant's guild (setthindtha 59. 16) must
be mentioned, no doubt a rich man who had great influence
in financial affairs. The conformity of his position with that
of the Sresthin in India is obvious. |

53. The highest state-officials were. the ministers, the
amaccG in the narrower sense of the word (cf. 48). Such
ministers were the two officials created by Parakkamabahu
in connection with his reform work (cf. 47), the Minister of
finances and the Minister of war. They are explicitly
called amaccdG, nay even miulémaccd, ‘ministers of the
highest rank’ (Mhvs., 69. 29, 34). But it is yet doubtful
whether the designation ‘minister’ is justified for the two
16 WILHELM GEIGER

ganakémaccd, also appointed by Parakkamabahu, who
were entrusted with the administration of the two halves
of Dakkhinadesa and for the administration of the royal
domains (69. 30, 35) though they were dignitaries of high
rank. The Sendpati must certainly be ranked among the
ministers, and | do not believe that his activity was en-
croached upon in any way by that of the Minister of war
just mentioned. The former's task was the strategy and
the command in the field of the whole army or at least of its
most important part, the latter had to look after the financial
preparations of war and the recruiting, equipment and
pay of the soldiers.

54. A State-Council was the supreme political corpora-
tion. We are not informed by the chronicler about the
details of this institution, but we are frequently told that
the kings before they entered upon an important enterprise
used to take counsel (v. mantay) with the dignitaries, the
amaced {er sacivd!. King Gajabahu, for instance. did so
when he heard of the first defeats sustained by his generals,
and saw that a dangerous war was impending (Mbhwvs., 70.
77, 80). Parakkamabahu did the same ere he undertook the
campaign against Ramajifia (76. 38). In such cases, | think,
we are justiied in speaking of a State-council summoned
by the ruler. The members of such a meeting were the
king’s counsellors (mantino, Sk. mantrin, 66. 113: 89. 27).
We do not know the dignitaries who were regularly present
at the State-council. It is even doubtful whether their
number was limited at all, so that the meeting could be
compared with what we now call a cabinet. Probably the
‘ministers’ were always present, and besides them the king
used to summon in each case those dignitaries whe had to
deal with the actual affair and possessed his confidence.
If war or peace were in question, the votes of the Sendpaii
and the Minister of war were no doubt decisive.

The resolutions taken by the king in the meetings with
his councillors were, if it seemed necessary or advisable,
publicly made known to the representatives of the people,

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA i7

and in this way to the whole kingdom, in a solemn act.
To this purpose served a building which was erected in
Pulatthinagara by Nissanka Malla, end of the 12th century.
Its ruins are at present known under the name, ‘Council
Chamber.’ I would prefer a denomination like Assembly-
Hall. On the pillars of the building the places of the dele-
gates are indicated by inscriptions (H.C. P. Bell, Arch.
Survey of Ceylon, 1904, pp. 8-9; H. W. Codrington, The
Council Chamber Inscriptions, Journ. R. As. Sac., Ceylon
Br. No. 77, 1924, p. 304). The king’s throne occupied the
centre of the southern side of the hall, facing north. On
his right side was the seat of the Heir-Apparent (yuvardaja)
who alone was sitting in the assembly. Next came the
Royal Princes (Adipadda), then the Sendpati and finally
superior officers (padhGn4) as representatives of the military
profession. On the king's left side first stood the Chiefs of
the cantons (Mandalika) and then came a group who
were, according to Codrington, what we callthe Headmen
of the districts or their delegates, and on the lowest
place the representatives of the merchants and working
classes of the people, probably with the Setthinatha at
their head.

Near to the Council Chamber there are the ruins of a
similar building, the so-called Audience-Hall. Here the
stone figure of a lion has been found on which the king’s
seat was erected (Cj. 23 a). In an inscription on this
figure the same groups of officials are enumerated as on the
pillars of the Council Chamber (E. Miller, Ancient Inscrip-
tions of Ceylon, no. 146, pp. 65, 93, 127).

No place is reserved in the Council Hall for the coun-
cillors (amacca) of the king. Apparently they stood gathered
round the throne. This is the reason why | should avoid
the name given to the building. No counsel, | think, was
taken in the hall, but, when important affairs concerning
the whole people were in question, the representatives
were summoned to. hear an address of the king or the
report of one of the ministers. a oe

3

is WI HELM GEIGER

9. Administration of Justice.

55. The information we can gather from the Maha-
varnsa concerning the administration of justice is not very
copious. The reason may be that for a good deal of
jurisdiction the village community and its headman were
competent, so that the general public was not much affected
by many legal affairs. Criminals who had taken sanctuary
ina village could not forcibly be removed by royal officers.
In temple-villages the headmen, not the officers of the
king. were bound in the case of murder to enquire,
record evidence and have the murderer killed; in a case
of house-breaking they had to restore the stolen goods to
the owner and have the thief hanged. If the criminals were
not detected, the village community had to pay a consi-
derable sum as afine (H. W. Codrington, Short Hist. of
Ceylon, pp. 43, 44).

In the chronicle we hear very little about judges or
courts of justice or about the law-proceedings. ‘The title
dhammagehandyaka which occurs in Mhvs., 59. 16 side by
side with chatiagdhakandtha and setthindtha perhaps de-
notes the Chief Justice. I tentatively translated it as
‘President of the Court of Justice’ (Calavamsa tr., |.).

The jurisdiction was to a large extent based on custom-
ary law. There is in the chronicle (49. 20) the interesting
notice that king Udaya I—this is probably the correct
name of the ruler hitherto called Dappula Il—caused
judgments which were just to be entered in books and
kept in the royal palace in order to avoid future violations
of justice. Such a collection of judicial decisions, acknow-
ledged in times of old as correct and just, could serve as
sure guides for future judges. In the thirteenth century
Ayasmanta, the Sendpati of queen Kalyanavati and actual!
ruler of the kingdom, is said to have compiled a text-book
which had law as its subject (dhammddhikaranam saitham,
80. 41). This was certainly a code of laws.

56. A list of penalties occurs in Mhvs., 63. 4 sq. The
mildest one is a pecuniary fine (danda).. Next corne impri-

a
4
f

$

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 19

sonment jn jails (kdrdgara) and banishment (ratthd pabbaja-
na). The most severe penalty was beheading (sisacheda).
Bodily mutilation as cutting off the nose and toes was also
not infrequent. Thus at the end of the first century A. C.
King Ilanadga punished the members of Lambakanna clan
who had opposed his progress (35. 43).

Frequently the punishment was too severe and even
cruel. We may infer from 87.48 that thieves who had
committed thefts in the royal palace could be punished with
loss of limbs (angahGni). Prince Vijayabahu, afterwards
King Vijayabahu IV, 1271-73, is said to have pardoned
such criminals so that their lives were spared.

Kings often used to grant amnesty after a lucky event or
when they had ascended the throne. Already in the third
century A. C. King Tissa made a law by which bodily
injury, that is capital punishment and mutilation, probably
also torture, was set aside (voh@ram himsa-mutiam, 36. 28),
and received the name of Vohirika-tissa owing to his
clemency. The same king also freed bhikkhus who were
in debt from their indebtedness (36. 39).

Manabharana, after the birth of his son, the later Para-
kkamabahu the Great, set many people free, who lay bound
in fetters in prison (62. 42). King Vijayabahu Il, Parakkama-
bahu’s nephew and successor, when he had received con-
secration as King, released from their misery those whom
his uncle had thrown into prison and tortured with stripes or
with fetters (80. 2-3). In the thirteenth century King Parak-
kamabahu II granted a general amnesty by reducing all
penalties inflicted on criminals (83.4 sq.). People whose
heads were to be cut off were punished only with prison
and then set free again. For such people as deserved
prison he ordained some lighter punishment. On people
who should have been banished from the country he laid
but a fine, and those who had deserved a fine he dismissed
with a rebuke. ae

By taking refuge in an asylum people who had commit-
ted a crime could escape a too hasty and unjust punish-

20 WILHELM GEIGER

ment. Such asylums were the Buddhist monasteries. Hav-
ing been defeated in battle by his brother Dutthagimani
prince Tissa took sanctuary in a monastery (24. 39). Ac-
cording to local tradition it was that of Okkampitiya, East of
Buttala. From the story referred to in para 36 we see that
violation of the right of sanctuary could lead toa severe
conflict between the priesthoed and the worldly authori-
ties.

57. High treason (rajdparddha, Nbhvs., 35. 10), that is
opposition to the ruling king, was a crime which was puni-
shed in the most cruel manner. People who had commit-
ted it were called rebels (cord, dimarikd). In the first
century A. C, by the order of the king sixty bhikkhus who
were convicted of that crime were flung down a rocky pre-
cipice (35. 11). The peculiar penalties of rebels were
impalement, hanging or burning alive. «At the perform-
ance of his father's funeral rites King Jetthatissa caused the
dignitaries who had been hostile to the deceased ruler be-
cause of his attachment to a heretical priest, to be slain
and their bodies impaled on stakes round the pyre of his
father (36. 118-22). Because of this deed he came by the
surname ‘the Cruel’ (Rakkhala).

These two examples belong to the ancient times. In
the mediaeval period three brothers, dignitaries of the
highest rank, had become hostile to king Wijayabahu I.
They fled to Southern India and returned to Ceylon about
the year 1078 with an army in order to subvert the kingdom.
But the king captured his foes in bitter ight and had them
impaled (59. 21). By the order of the same king the
leaders of the rebellious Vellakdra mercenaries, who had
slain their two generals, were burnt alive, chained to stakes
around the pyre on which the remnants of the murdered
generals were laid (60. 35-43).

At the time of Parakkamabahu the treatment of the
Rohana people was terribly cruel, if we can rely on the re-
port of the chronicler. And the Rohana people were by no
means rebels in the true sense of the word, but rather loyal

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA Zi

adherents of their former dynasty represented at that time
by the aged queen Sugala. The Damiladhikdrin Rakkha
after having conquered Dvadasasahassaka (Cf. 41) had
many hundreds of the foes, who had been taken alive,
impaled in villages and market towns, and also round about
the village of Mahanagahula he had numbers of the foes
impaled or hanged on the gallows and burnt to ashes
(75. 160-63). Likewise General Mafiju had many stakes set
up in the Rohana country on which he impaled hundreds
of the enemy, andhe hanged numbers of other foes on
the gallows and burnt (75. 190-92). Thus he showed forth

in every way the majesty of King Parakkamabahu.

Neubiberg %

Iindo-Javanese Images in Berlin,
Arnsterdam and Londen Museums
By F, M. ScHNITGER

In the large museums of Europe are stored numerous
images having a great value for Indo-Javanese archaeo-
logy and history. One must deplore that up till now
many of them are not even known to students. We publish
below three photos of such images which were all made in
East Java in the Mth or [5th century.

The Ethnographical Museum in Berlin possesses since
{861 a four-armed Siva, a masterpiece of Javanese sculpture
(PL!}. The god carries a crown, the top of which ends in a
lotus-bud. Behind the ears and onthe shoulders one sees
rich ornaments. On the aureole are hewn out ties and
bands. No less than three collars hang down on the breast,
The arms are adorned with numerous bands, among which
some have the meander-form. Also the thumbs and
little-fingers show rings.

The tightly closing loin-cloth is draped in ingenious and
graceful folds. From the girdle are hanging down two long
bands. An upavita lies over it. A flaming halo surrounds
the whole image; on the inner side of this halo are intren-
ched kidney-shaped notches.

Inthe backhands the image carries a fly-fan and an
aksamald, which is crowned by a linga. In the left fore-
arm it carries a large liaga on a lotus: the fingers of the
right arm clasp this linge. This reminds us of the South
Indian Lingayats, who bury their dead with a golden linge
in the left hand, a symbol of their istadevaté. The Javanese
image is the statue of a dead king.

It strikes us that the head is made very big in comparison
to the body. This*must be explained by the magic force
attributed to it. The eyes are long-shaped and oblique ; very
uncommon are the moustache and the circular beard, such
as we see, on the bhairava from Sungei Langsat in Sumatra.
The most striking feature, however, is the wrinkled forehead,

ka

| ig fac f page
_ a talat inal dN pe TC . ~ ae ace pee

INDO-JAVANESE IMAGES 23

which gives a menacing aspect to the whole face and makes
us ask if this king was perhaps a devotee of the bhairavas.

No less fine is the splendid, alas! very damaged, image
in the Colonial Museum at Amsterdam (PI.2). Originally it
was four-armed. On the crown are carved out squareshaped
ornaments. From the centre of the diadem is hanging
down a little pearl-string. On the shoulders are seen
makara-heads. The loin-cloth is draped and ornamented
somewhat differently from that of the Berlin image; the
decoration gives a good impression of the goldsmith’s art of
the Madjapahit times. On the right and left are pots with
lotus-Hawers, partly covered with the skirts of the cloth.
It appears from the careful workmanship of this image that
it must have been the statue of a mighty king set up after
his death. It is therefore extremely deplorable that it is so
heavily damaged and that we do not know exactly in which
place it was found,

The image in the Victoria and Albert Museum in London
{P1.3) shows the same style-characteristics as those from
Berlin and Amsterdam. Its execution, however, is far less
beautiful. We see here a four-armed Parvati with a fly-fan
in the left upper hand; the right upper hand carries a lotus
with a jewel ora linga. The little-fingers of the hand show
a ring, the ring-ingers even two. The fore-hands are
folded, the tips of the indexes touch each other, a symbol
of the trikona or yoni. The crown carries a lotus-bud and
is decorated with round ornaments; under the breast is a
band. The upavifa is composed of three strings. The
whole image is surrounded by a faming halo. On the left
and right are standing pots with lotus-flowers and leaf.
Striking are the broad jaws of the face, which are charac-
teristic of the inhabitants of Menangkabau in Sumatra. We
know that the Javanese king Krtaradjasa (71309) was
married with a Malay princess. Perhaps this is also the
statue of a dead king.

Vienna.
Some Notes on the Kingdom of Dvaravati

By H. G. Quaritch Wales, Field Director of the

Greater-India Research Committee

Our knowledge of the ancient Indianized kingdom of
Dvyaravati, which attained its height during the Vith and
Vilth centuries A. D. and occupied the lower parts of the
Meénim and Méklong valleys of Central Siam, is at present
based almost entirely on the results of M. Goedés's important
researches in this field. Finds made from time to time at
Nik‘on P&éthém and elsewhere, and the excavations at P‘éng
Ta‘k', though they have yielded no records of events nor
provided us with the names and dates of kings on which to
base an outline of the history of the kingdom, have yet
given us a tolerably clear idea of the culture of the people,
at least during the period of their greatness. But the later
centuries of the Dvaravati period remain veiled in obscurity
and a primary object of this article is to suggest a means by
which that veil might some day be rent asunder.

Before | come to that, however, | should hke to take the
opportunity of expressing my views on the question as to
whether or not this territory played an important role as a
medium for the distribution of Indian cultural infuences to
the further east, either during the fourth and fifth centuries
when it seems to have formed part of the Fu-nan empire, or
after the middle of the sixth when it became the indepen-
dent State of Dvaravati. When speaking of the magni-
ficent statues of Ankor Boréi, which are so closely related to
the Gupta sculpture of India, M. (oedés says: ‘“‘It is not
impossible that this Buddhist art arrived in Cambodia, or
rather in Fuenan, through the intermediary of Dvaravati......

1. G. Ceedés, The Excavations at P’ong Tuk, J$S., Wol. xxi, pt. 3,
1928

A
i

SOME NOTES ON THE KINGDOM OF DVARAVATI 25

For the Buddhist art of Fu-nan, Dvyaravati has perhaps
played the part of intermediary between Gupta India and
the Mékong delta.’”?

The difficulty of accepting this view is that the statues
found at Ankor Béréi are so manifestly nearer Indian
Gupta models than are any of the numerous Buddhist im-
ages showing Gupta relationship that have been found in
Central Siam, and they must be placed at least a century
earlier in date. There is ample evidence that Indian in-
fluences reached the mouth of the Mékéng via the all-sea
route, and afterwards via the Tikuapa-C’Siya: transpenin-
sular route, at avery early period. It is difficult therefore
to resist the conclusion that these almost purely Indian |
sculptures from Ankor Boréi are the expression of influences
brought to Cambodia via one of the more direct colonial
routes just mentioned.

On the other hand the Dvaravati Miia of Central
Siam are without exception definitely stylised, if not deca-
dent. They must be looked upon as the final expression of
a more northerly stream of Indian culture that had probably
already passed through its period of active development in
the Mén country of Lower Burma before, penetrating east-
wards via the Three Pagoda and Papun routes, it exhausted
itself on the rich plains of Central Siam. In the neighbour-
hood of the Prichin valley, towards the border between
modern Siam and Cambodia, these two cultural streams
must have established contact and no doubt cultural ex-
changes took place; but.itis difficult to imagine that cul-
tural influences that had travelled via Burma, the mountain
passes, and finally the wide plains of Dvaravati, so far from
their original Indian home-land, could have retained vigour
and purity of conception enough to produce the superb »
statuary of Ankor Béréj. But if the influence of Dvaravati
culture on the growing Khmér civilization was probably
small, its importance for the future of Siam was great; and

Z. Reeweil des Inscriptions de Starn, pt. ti. p. 4; also Ars
Asiatica, vol . xii, p, 23. uh ee,

4

26 H. G. QUARITCH WALES

this brings me to the consideration of the obscure later
centuries of the kingdom of Dvdravati.

During the NIlth and X[llth centuries the Khmer empire
extended its sway over the territory of Dvdravati, and buil-
dings of provincial Khmér style were erected at almost all
the cities of the Dvdravati kingdom that had survived until
that time. Inthe Mlillth century, with the break-up of the
Khmeér empire, the Thai State of Sikhot’Si spread its power
southward over all this region. But its suzerainty was
short-lived, and in 1350 A.D. we find a large part of
Central Siam dominated by a Prince of U T'ong, a city
situated some fifty miles west of Ayiith'ya on what was then
the main Sip‘&n river butis now an insignificant tributary.
H.R. H. Prince Damrong, who visited the place in 1904,
placed on record’ the legend that in 1350 A.D. the Prince
of U T'ong, fleeing from an epidemic, deserted the city and
marched westward to the Menam where he founded the
city of Aytith'ya which was for more than four hundred
years to be the capital of a united kingdom of Siam. Not
only is the name Dvdravati one of the titles by which
Ayith'ya came to be known, but Prince Damrong was able
to establish a definite connection between U T'ting and the
Dvadravati culture when he found statues and coins of
exactly the same type that had previously been found at
N&k‘on Pathém. It seems very likely that U Tong was
one of the old cities of the Dvaravati kingdom, which, on
account of itsremote situation, had retained much of its
early Hinayana Buddhist culture at the expense of a nomi-
nal vassalage to the Khmeérs. Later, having got rid of ita
Khmér, and finally of its Sitkhot'di Thai overlords, it was
able to re-establish its independence.

There is good reason for believing that the early civili-
zers of the Dvaravati kingdom were Indianized Mon
colonists from Lower Burma, but the fact that the Prince of
U T‘éng was himself a Thai need cause no surprise. The

3. The Foundation of Agige in JSS., Vol. i, p. 7.

SOME NOTES ON THE KINGDOM OF DVARAVATI 27

local legend maintains that his family had comparatively
recently migrated from the North; and if that is so they
were members of one of the later waves of Thai immigra-
tion. But recent researches* suggest that the Thai had
become established in Central Siam at a much earlier period
than had formerly been supposed and the Thai of U T‘éng
had no doubt absorbed their Mén civilisers centuries before
this city was deserted. I have mentioned that the Buddhist
images found at U T‘éng by Prince Damrong were of the
Dvadravati style, and hence it is necessary to note M.
Coedés’s explanation for denominating as ‘School of U
T‘énge”’ a number of sculptures found not actually at U
T‘éng, but at other cities in Central Siam, and showing
mixed Dvaravati, Khmér and Sikhot‘Si characteristics. M.
Coedés justifies this classification on the grounds that many
of these sculptures may well date from the early part of the
fourteenth century, before Aytith‘ya had been founded and
when U T‘éng dominated the region. U T‘dng, indeed,
during the later centuries of its existence, could scarcely be
expected to have escaped the varied cultural influences that
must have been brought to bear on what remained of the
Dvaravati kingdom, and this is certainly supported by the
presence of several stone Hindu figures of rather mixed
ancestry still to be seen in the neghbourhood of U T‘éng.
Following the useful pointers extended by Prince
Damrong and M. Coedés I myself visited U T*6ng early in
1936. While my visit was too short to do justice to the site,
it had the effect of still further stimulating my interest. The -
city is a rectangular enclosure measuring about a mile from
north to south and half that distance from east to west. It
is bounded by a moat and mound and the area within is
largely occupied by thin jungle broken by extensive bare
patches where little vegetation seems able to grow. Out-
side the city are one or two brick stiipas the style of which
4, Tal Pottery by P’raya Nakon P’ rah Ram in JSS., Vol. xxix, pt. i,
1936; also Further Excavations at Tale Tak, by H. G. > Wales in Ind.
Art and Letters Vol. X. No. 1, 1938, :

28 H. G. QUARITCH WALES

indicates that they probably date from not much earlier than
the thirteenth century. ‘Within the enclosure there are the
remains of only one monument, an old stiipa basement,
situated at the centre of the city. This basement was itself
constructed from large re-employed bricks, many of them
ernamented with whorls, which must have once formed
part of a much earlier structure. Ata spirit shrine in the
neighbouring Chinese village | was shown a stucco head,
said to have been dug up near some sfiisa in the neighbour-
hood. The features were of exactly the same type as those
of many of the heads found at Nik‘on Pathim and believed
to date from the VIth or Vilth century.

There had been several thunderstorms at U T‘dng at the
time of my visit and the rain had washed out large quan-
tities of small objects from the surface soil of the open
spaces that occupied so much of the city enclosure. Besides
household utensils and pottery we found the crucibles of
metal workers often associated with lumps of base metal
and a few specks of gold. Moreover agate, cornelian,
crystal and garnet beads mainly of Indian type were found
in great abundance and here and there were uncremated
human bones. These objects were lying.on the sites of the
houses of the last inhabitants of U Ting and, while it is
true that beads often tend to werk to the surface, the
evedence seems to offer some support for the legend which
tells us thatthe city had to be hastily abandoned as the
result of an epidemic. A few more objects of interest were
produced by the villagers who said they were accustomed
to search over the city site whenever heavy rain had washed
over the soil. Among these objects were several gold
rings, a golden ear-ring set with polished rubies and a large
primitive bullet coin, stamped with lion, elephant and

cakra marks, of the ERE SuaaESS ‘pre-Ayuthian’’ by
Dr. Le May.®

5, The Coinage of Siam, in JSS., vol. xviii, 1924, Pl. 1.3,

SOME NOTES ON THE KINGDOM OF DVARAVATI 29

I decided to dig two or three trial trenches at different
points on these open spaces, in order to determine whether
the place would be likely to repay complete excavation at
some future date. The deposits proved to be very definite-
ly stratified with several clearly differentiated occupation
levels each marked by a refuse of fragments of fish and
animal bones, shells, pottery fragments and layers of
charcoal, the remains of ancient kitchen-middens. No
human bones were found at these levels, and beads only
rarely. The most interesting point, however, was that while
awhole C‘dlieng jar was found only a foot beneath the
surface, fragments of this ware were found as much as
seven feet thereunder. Below this level fragments of coarse
earthenware only were found, down to a depth of about
eleven feet at which depth natural soil seemed nearly to
have been reached. While absolute depth of finds is in
itself of course no criterion, it is certainly remarkable that
C‘Slieng ware should have been found seven feet down in a:
city the great age of which is suggested by the images of
Dvaravati style that have been found there. Until recently
it was not supposed that glazed pottery was made in Siam
much before the XIlth or XIIlth century, but the depth at.
which these C‘dlieng fragments were found at U T ‘tng
must now be considered in conjunction with the evidence |
adduced by P‘réya N&k‘on P‘rah Ram to the effect that
C‘Blieng pottery was made from A. D. 500 to A. D. 1374°.

For the present it would obviously be premature to
attempt to build further on our scant knowledge of the
remains at U T‘éng. But the fact that at more than one
level ancient brick courses were encountered in my trial
trenches suggests that thorough excavation might not only
tell us much about the everyday domestic life of the people,
but that the foundations of brick temples, perhaps with
~ sculptures and even inscriptions, might very well be brought
to light. Indeed, now that P‘ong Tii’k seems to have been

6. Loc, cit., p. 23.
30 H. G. QUARITCH WALES

more or less exhausted, and most of the other known
Dvaravati sites are not available for excavation either by
reason of their sanctity or their being modern centres of
civilisation, the possibilities of LU T'dng deserve careful
attention, not only for the additional light that the excava-
tion of that city might throw onthe heyday of Dvaravati
culture, but because it might serve to ilumine the whole
history of Central Siam, right from the beginning of the
Dvaravati kingdom until the end of those later obscure
centuries at the close of which the torch was handed on to
the new kingdom of Aytith'ya. Tothe careful investigator
U Ting should make a strong appeal by reason of the
clearly stratified nature of its deposits which have not
attracted, and are not likely to attract, the attention of the
treasure-seekers who have harmed so many other sites in
Siam. The complete excavation of U T'tng would be no
small undertaking and should not be undertaken lightly;
but it is probably one of the most important of the tasks
that lie before the archaeologist of the future in Siam.

London
Copper-Plates of Kembang Arum 824 Saka
By Hransu Buvsan Sarxar

These three copper-plates were discovered from a cane-
field of desa Kémbang Arum in the sub-division of the
dame name, district Klegung, Sleman, Jogjakarta, The
plates are of similar size and measure 45x18.5¢e.m. Of
these three plates, I and II are incised on one side, while
ITI is written on both the faces,

The inscription contains two records. The first record
dates from 824 Saka and states that the rakryan of Wantil
(viz.) Pu Palaka, resident of Wuatan sugih, with his wife
dyah Prasida and his three sons (viz.) Pu Palaku, Pu
Gowinda and Pu Wangi tamuy marked out a free-hold at
Panggumulan for the god and the goddess at Kinawuhan.
The second record dating from 825 Saka states that the
rakryan of Wantil (viz.) Pu Palaka with his wife dyah
Prasida and three sons (viz.) Pu Palaku, Pu Gowinda
and dyah Wangi tamuy purchased the mortgaged lands of
the rdmanta-s of Panggumulan. The garden named Sid-
dhayoga and the sawah-fields of Panilman were bought for
silver 3 kati from dapunta Prabhu and dapunta Kaca,

Dr. Bosch has published the transcription of this in-
scription with elaborate notes in OV, 1926, Bil. B, PP.
41.49,

TEXT.

I, 1. swasti éakawars&tita. 824, pauga masa tithi dagami?
krsnapaksa, tunglai, kaliwuan, somawara, daksinas-
tha’, jaisthanaksatra’*, ES sukarmmayogu,
tatkala rakryan

&. iwantil pu palaka anak wanua i wuatan sugih watak
wulakan, muang nganakwi nira dyah prasida, muang
1. Read: °mi, | - . a 2 Read: *ksi’.
3. Read: jyestha*.

32 HIMANSL BHUSAN SARKAR

anak uira katiga pu palaku, pu gowinda, pu wangi
tamuy manusuk sima’t mawanua i pa

3. nggumulan watak puluwatu hop........° kabikuanya
gaway mai + sawah kanayakin tampah 7 katik 1 patilek
ning alas pirak mi 1 paknfinvan sinusuk punya& nira
Sima

4, bhatira muang bhatiri i kinawuhan, tan katamiina
dening saprakira ning mangilala drabya haji tikasan,
rumwin, manimpiki, paranakan, kring padammapuy,
manghuri, air haji, tapa haji,

2. tuba dagang, wanuwai dalam, katanggaran, pinilal,
mapadaki mangiduny, hulun haji ityewarmadi kabaih
tan hana deyan tumaméa iriya, bhatara muang bhatari
atah basa pramand

G. ing sowara ni sukha dulkhanya kabaih anung kinou
humarapa® ikanang susukan sima sang pamagat pikatan
dapunta kosiki anak wanuaing haji kabikuan i pamé-
hangan, muang sany pa

7, magat manungkuli sang brahmdsakii, mangasiakan
sira pasék pas8k sabyawastha’ ning manusuk sima
dangi, irakryan mapatihihino pu daksa sang bihu-
bajrapratipaksaksaya, rake halu pa

8, bwalu sang stnggrimadurandhara, rakai sirikan pu
wariga sang saimarabikrinta, rakai wka pu kutak, rake
pagarwsi pu wirabikrama, sang pamagat tiruan pu
asauga sang 3iwa astra, sang makawanua ika

9, na sinusuk sang pamagat puluwatu pu kuuir sang
Winita anak wanua i cukulan watak iilimpik, kapua sira
inas’an pasék pas8k wdihan gafijar pitra sisi yu 1
Sisim® pasada?

10. woh l mabrat mas sul ing sowang sowang || sang
puluwatu anakbi pu babi anak wanua i babahan i

¥

The word has variously beer epelt in this inscription.

Five letters are illegible. [Bosch.]

Generally we read: “repa. 7. Read : “wyaweet ha,
Elsewhere we find; simsi*.

Uae

~ Be

In some inscriptions we read: prasada, prisida. .

COPPER-PLATES OF KEMBANG ARUM, 824 SAKA 33

puluwatu inasian’ kain sawlah sisim pasada woh 1”
mabrat mas mi 8 |] rakai

11. halaran pu basu, rake palarhyang pu pufijang, elinan”?
pu galatha, wlahan pu dhepu, manghuri pu cakra,
pangkur pu raifijan, tawin pu ward, tirip pu krgna,
wadihati pu dapit, ma |

12. kudur pu sambrada, kapua sira inaséan pasék pastk
wdihan rangga yu I sisim pasada woh 1 mabrat mas mi
8 ing sowang sowang || paminang i sang hyang kudur
wdihan yu 1 mas ma 4

13. sang tuhan ni wadihati 2 sang miramirah si rayung
mangrangkapi sang halaran si rahula anak wanuai
pangramuan watak wadihati, sang tuhan ni makudur 2
sang asammafijang’ si dharmma muang sang tangkil

14. sugih, si maniksa anak wanua i mantyasih watak
makudur, kapua wineh pasék pas8k wdihan yu 1 mas ma
4ing sowang sowang || i wadihati lumaku manusuk
sang wurukuy si managa

15, si anak wanua i pandamuan wadihati, muang i ma-.
kudur sang kamalagyan si lalita anak wanua i palikét
watak makudur kapua winaih pasék pas8k wdiban yu 2
mas ma 8 ka .

16 hop pé pangangkat ing sowang sowang || samangkana
sang tuhin mamuat ujar kabaih panujar’‘ ri hino sang
kandamuhi si tunggang anak wanuai gunungan watak
tangkil citralekha sang watu warani

TI. 1. si manésér anak wanua i tamalinggang watak siri-
kan parujar ri halu sang wisaga’ si wiryya anak wanua
i pakalangkyangan watak pagarwsi, parujar i sirikan
sang hujung galuh si agra anak wanu

10. In some places of contemporary inscriptions, the writers have
indifferently used i and e for y when this last one is joined with a
previous letter. a

11. Bosch's reading of i is evidently due to a printing mistake,

12, dali°? of. TBG, 67, p. 183, fn.23,

13. Elsewhere: asampafi®, § 14. Read: paru®.

15. Bosch reads “maga, which is evidently a mistake, ©

5 .
34 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

2. aisingha watak hino, citralekha dharmmasinta si
parbwata anak wanua i limush watak puluwatu, parujar
i wka wiridih si danunwe iskar tan’ watak layuwatang,
citralekha halang

3. manuk si gowinda wanwa ri wanua tnghlah watak
wurutunggal parujar i tiruan sumudan si kasura anak
ywanua i wungkudu watak kilipan, kapua awinaih pasék
pasék wdihan yu l ma

4. smid ing sowang sowang || parujar i halaran sang
wijanta anak wanua i talumpuk i sumingkar watak
kanduh tuh& ni kamayakin i puluwatu si samadhi
wanwa i pangaruhan pandat tamwaga

5. muang tubd ning lampuran si dhaniti anak wanual
wukulan watak tilimpik parujar i manghurl sang
anubra si samodaya anak wanua i singhapura watak
halu manghi, parujar 1 pangkur

6, udalan® si dhyina anak wanuairilam watak aluhur,
parujar i tawin sang daluk si krsya anak wanua i srai
watak lampungan, parujar i tirip sang pangadagau si
singhi

7. anak wanuai ‘parangmangjahijjahit kapua wineh
passk pas8k wdihan yu 1 mas mi 2 ing sowang sowang||
pitungtung ni parujar sang miuak, lua si barubuh
muang si waru kapua anakwanua

8. iralua watak wurutunggal, wuatan yai si kbél anak
wanua i wuatan yai watak watu humalang winel pasék
pasék wdihan yul m& 1 ing sowang sowang || patih i
puluwatu 3

G, mi mas gitirisan rama ni yora muang tajvangin 51
kandi rama ni lucira, tunggidurunpnya si sarana rama
ni wawul kapua wineh pasék pasék wdihan yu 1 mas
mi 2 ing sowang sowang |]

10, parujari patih i kaficil rama ni wandi wineh wdihan

sahle masmil || wahuta i puluwatu 3 airhajo’ si dras

16. tahury? [Bosch].

17. Dedelan occurs in this place in other eC,
18. airhaji?

COPPER-PLATES OF KEMBANG ARUM, 824 SAKA 35

rama ni waringin, tungg gidurungnya si baigakha rama
ni tumwa, wahuta winka

li. s wkassi katis wineh pas8k pas8k wdihan yu 1 mas
ma 2 ing sowang sowang || wahuta lampuran si bhadra
muang pihujungnya prana 5 kapua winaih pasék pasék
wdihan

12. sahle mas ma 1 ing sowang sowang || rama magaman
irikanang wanua sinusuk i panggumulan prana 6
kalang manguwu si pingul rama niudé, gusti syatag
rama ni rangga, winkas si wu

18, dal rama ni demoh tuha banuasi guna rama ni day-
ang, rama matuha si wlang rama ni go, magawai watu
gima si grirama ni bukang sangka i dihyang wineh
pasék pasék wdihan yu 1

14. masm& 2 ing sowang sowang || muwah magaman
prana 7 kalang tunggiidurung si tude rama ni bhai-
éikha, hulu wras dapunta bingung, tuha wéréh si
brit si kpul rama ni mahéar wadahu

15. ma2si plat rama ni dharmma, muang si ufija rama
ni gamwoh si doho rama ni ramya si ranggél, rama ni
tugan, si kaladhara rama ni udiyana si mangoh rama
nitarum kapua winaih pasék pasé

16. k wdihan yu lmas mil ing sowang sowang || anak
manuam prana 18 si blondo, si karan, si uyana, si plat,
si muga, si kundu, si glo, sy al8ng, si bahu, si glar

17. si limbu, si tunggi, si tidu, si gwari, si kawél, si
balubu, si bngal, si drawéng, kapua winaih pasék pasék
wdihan sablai mas ku ling sowang sowang || rainanta
sang matuha, si turuk rainangga )

18. sitadah raibai, si rampung rai daimoh ao pasék
pastk kain wlah 1 kampit | ing sowang sowang|| muwah
rainanta sang maniiti prana 15 si gawi rai krsna, si
magya rai gryan si kuduk rai

IlI,a.1. rampiian si wrut rai tugan, si kinang rai
barubuh, si daki rai mah¥ar, si turukan rai tarum, si
haryya rai ramya, si balyah rai gamwo, si pufijang ral
gamwais, si lamyat rai bani, si dayang rai dayana —

36 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

2, si dita rai biredis, si kutil rai go, si tugan rai wdai
pindaprina 15 winaih pastk pasék kain sawlah ing
sowang sowang || anak manuam anakbisi mahvang,
si tagés, sirikha, si sojara, si wi

8, doh, si rampwas, si kadya, si camma pindapriina
8 wineh pas8k pasék pirak mi 4 ing sowang sowang ||
samangkana sang i siringan ing wanua milu pinuka-
sikei, patih ihino patih kulumpang si puijang

4, ramaniéri, patih i tiru ranu 2 patih pandawutan
si pryangka rama ni kurutug muang si parama rama
ni wulakan kapua wineh pastk pastk wdihan vu l mag
m4 2 ing sowang sowang {| rima i stringan tumil

5. tsaksi, i suru watak ho’ kalangnya si pagar kaki
mahi, parujarnya si tahil rama ni waris, i tguhan
watak linggaug gusti si sunglit rama ni ptlog, parnu-
jarnya 31 hali rangma ni jaluk, i purud watak parun-
tunga

6. npande kalang sl taji rama ni swimi, parujarnya si
junét, i pastamwir kalang si gupakira rama ni jaluk,
parujarnya syungda rama ui kisik, i kinawuhan watak
hino gusti si bandeng kaki aji, parujarnya

T situdu,i wangun amw&’k watak panguruhan pande
rama matuha al pyul rama ni éuddhi parujarnya si
julung i munggu wuatan watak landa tamwir rama
matuha si wadui rama ni impén pinda wanna si

8. ringan tumiit pinakasiksi 9 hos**sang patih wuangnya
prina 9 kapua winath pasék pastk wdihan yu 1 mas ma
2 ing sowaug sowang |] parujarnya arene prina 6 wiuaih
pasék pasék wdihan

9. sahlai mas ma 1 ing sowang sowang || saji ning
manusuk sima wdihan sang hyang brabm& yu L mas
mil wdihan sang hyang kulumpang yu 4 mas md 4
wadung lL rimwas 1 patuk 1 lukai 1 twék punukan ]

10. linggis 4 landuk L wangkyul 1 gulumi | kurumbhagi
1 nakhaccheda 1 dom 1 tahas 1 bsi 1 padamaran 1

1. hino? [Bosch = s—*—*~«~=S hp

COPPER-PLATES OF KEMBANG ARUM, 824 SAKA 37

saragi pagangan 2 kampil 1 wras Se 1 wsi ikat 1
wdus 1 tandas** ||

11. kumol 1 skul dinyun 4 pras 1 pasilih galuh 1 argha”’ 5
wras ing tamwakur 1 hayam 4 hantiga 4 muang pafico-
pacira kamwang, kawittha, dipa, dhupa, gandhalepa ||
i sampunira kabaih mana |

12. dah mapangalib makawittha, makamwang malungguh
sira ring natar makulilingan humarapakan”™ sang hyang
kudur muang sang hyang gima watu lulumpang**i sor
ning bitana.i tngah ning natar, krama ning malungguh

13. sang pamagat pikatan, rake wantila, samagat manun-
gkuli umanggu lor humarap”* kidul, sang wahuta hyang
kudur muang sang tuhan mamuat wuwus kabaih
munggu kuluan humarap waitan, sang

14. sang wahuta patih muang ramanta muang sang anak
wanua kabaih tpi siring munggu kidul humarap lor
lumakas sang makudur mamangmang manumpah,
manapatai,”®> manat8k*”* gulii ni hayam lina

15. ndasakan ing susu kulumpang, mamatingakan hantli
i sang hyang watu sima, manggnangi sang hyang
brahma ring susu, kadyangganikang hayam pjah tan
waluy mahurip, kadilwir nikang hantli at oes gata-
girnna®’ kadi parnna.

16. sang hyang brahm& tumunu bra ikang kayu saka-
gégéngan hilang gés8ng tan pahamban hawu kerir,
mangkand ikanang uang nganyaya asing umulaulah
iki wanwa i panggumulan sinima rakai wantil sind

17. suk ning kudur muang.. wadua. rakryan mapatih
mangkana sawate’* sang makudur anung karéngé de
sang wahuta patih muang sang rama anak wanua

21. Bosch misread it ag Ka°. Ta® occurs in many inscriptions at

this place.
22. Read: “ghya. .
23. Generally we find,: "rep. .-s—(“wséi2AX)sPRReeard : kullu’,
25. Read: “pathai. a as 26. Read: ‘ne

27, Read “ma. OO Bee get Ba Reed : apatha.

38 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

kabaih nguniwaih sang tpi siring kabaih manamwah ya
isang hyang watu sima
18. kulumpang sumamwahakan bhaktinva muang i tan
langghauanya mangkananya umuwah sira kabath 1 ron
nira manadah lwir no tinalah kakap daing kadawas*?
ruma
19. han lavar layar hurang, halahala, ie ra, SHsAmManpe-
kanang pinakagaugan hadangan prina 2 wus 1 dina-
dvakan klakla samenaka amwillamwil,”" kasyan, kwélan,
piningka, pinanganan
P0. hana rumwarumweh, kuluban, dudutan tetis, mang-
kauang madya ininung hana twak siddhu, hana jati-
rasa, dah ninyung, samangkanang inig@llakan“hana
mapadahi marégeang si catu rama ni kriyi, mabréhuk si
Til. bh. 1.0 wark rama ni enga winaih wiilan salilai mas
mi ling sowang sowang {{ milapafjut 4 ei ma rani ni
kutil, al mangol sisieara si manidon winath mas ma
l ing sowang sowang, mila wulé
2. Si mari winaih mas kul si paracan mabhanol winath
pirak mii 4 mahawin madwal wras kahadang knima-
liwat irikang kila waang i tunggalungan mara ing phan
i sindingan priina 4 sia
3. ntyansirampal si surat syarani tulung tutu i firu
ranu wuaug i sarupsu priina “ si bids Thi sik yaing si
goda winaih pirak ku LY! ing sowang sowaug mumangan
manginung saug patih wahuta mnuang
4. ramanta rainanta muang nganak wanua kabaih
Jakilaki waduan matuha rarai milu mahantyan tan
hana kaniun kapua mamangan mauginum mangigal
kapua umtuakan inak oi amwék nira niha
5. nm byaktanyan sampun suddhaparisuddha mapatth
ikang Wanuai panggumulan watak puluwatu sinUsik
sang wahuta hyang kudur muang sang tuhan mamuat
ujar kabaih Sima rakryan i wantil pu palaka,
29. Read: “di’.

30, Bosch’s reading of i is evi idently de te a printing mistake.
31. The duplication of | appears to be due to its contamination with
the following vowel.

COPPER-PLATES OF KEMBANG ARUM, 824 SAKA 39

6. muang anakwi nira dyah prasida muang anak nira
pu palaku pu gowinda pu wangi tamuy punya nirai
bhatara muang bhatiri i kinawahan pahatguhan tka
ing laha** ning laha,*? ya suanyana wuang nganyaya a

7, sing umulah iki dima wanua i panggumulan watak
puluwatu nguniwaih yan susuttaya*kadi lawas sang
hyang candraditya hanaring ngakaga sumuluh hing
andabhuwana“‘mangkana lawasnyan sangguhang

8. paficamahapataka, anurat prasasti watuwarani dhar-
mimasinta halang manuk |] O || swasti gakawarsatita°°825
masa bhadrawida**caturtha*’krsnapaksa wuruku(ng)
kaliwu .

9. an soma wara tatkala rakryan i wantil lakibi pu
palaka sang nganakwi dyah prasida muang anak nira
katlu pu palaku, pu gowinda, dyah wangi tamuy,
tumbus*®

10. Imah ramanta i panggumulan ikanang kasanda
kabuan mangaran i siddhayoga, muang sawah ing pa-
nilman tinumwas pirak ka 3 i dapunta prabhu

11. muang dapunta kaca, tumarima ikanang pirak, sang
tuha kalang i panggumulan si tudai rama ni be, sang
gusti si blondo, winkas si wudél rama ni

12, daimoh rama marata pu dharmma, pu ramani, si
ufiju, si tidu, sang hulu wrassi ratni jatata’°si suni,
tatra saksi*’sang marhyang sang daksina dapunta
mirtti, pasingir si go rama ni kuci, qapunte tiwi,
likhita sang karamwa

TRANSLATION

I.1. Hail! The Saka year expired, 824, the month of
Pausa,tenth day of the dark half of the month,2unglat,**

32. Read: dla’.
33, One ? is superfluous. _ 34. Read: °wana.
35. Read sa°

36. The correct Skt. form is: ‘phadrapeds.

37. In Skt. one should expect: °thi.

38. Read: “bas. 39, Jataka? = 40, Read: °Ksi.
402. A Mal.-Polynesian day of the six-day week.

40 HIMANSL BHUSAN SARKAR

Kalicon, Monday, (the planet) in the routhern region,
Gvhile) the lunar mansion Jyestha (stood under) the
deity Mitra, (during) the conjunction of Sukarmmaé,
At that time, the ratryan

3. of wantil (viz.) Pu Palaka, resident of Wuatau Sugih
uuder Wulakan, with his wife dyah Prasida and his
three sons iviz.) @u Palaku, Pe Gowinda, Pu Wangi
tamuy marked oui a free-hold in the village of

3. Panggumulan under Paluwatu......[ts cloister gaway 4
midsa, the sawehk-fields under the united body of the
nayaka-3 (measuring) tampah. 7 katic 1 (ani) plots (%)
of the forest (valued at 7) silver 1 aidse are bitited
to be marked out for their religious merit as a free-
hold for the

4. god and the goddess of Kinawuhan. (This) may uot
be tred upon by all sorts of ‘collectors of royal dues’,
tikasan, rumwdn, manimpik!, paranakan, kring,  pada-
mapuy, manghuri, air haji, tapahajt,

5, tuha dagang, wanua i dalam,” katanggaran, pini{ng)=
lai, mapedahi, mangidung, hulun haji and so forth.
All (these) may have no oceasion to tread upon this
{free-hold). The god and the goddess lave the sole
words of authority

6. over all of its good and bad incidents (which may
happen in the free-hold). Those who were requested
to wo before at the foundation of the free-hold were
sang pamagat Pikatan (who is) the dapunta Kosiki,
resident of the roval cloister (haji fabikhuan) at Pamé-
hangan, and sang pamayat

7 Manungkuli (who is) sang Brahmisakti. They pre-
sented gifts in ample measure according to the custom
of marking out free-holds -in early times. So, the
rakryan mapatih of Hino (viz.) pu Daksa baihubajra-
pratipaksakgaya, the raka of Walu (viz.) pu

41. A Mal.-Polynesian day of the five-day week.
42, Apparently a class of people.

COPPER-PLATES OF KEMBANG ARUM, 824 SAKA 4|

8. Bwalu Sanggramad(h)urandhara, the raka of Sirikan
(viz.) Pu Wariga samarabikranta, the raka of Wka
(voz.) Pu Kutak, the raka of Pagarwsi (viz.) Pu Wira-
bikrama, sang pamagat Tiruan (viz.) Pu Asanga siwa
astra, the one who marked out the village asa free-
hold (wez.) .

sang pamagat Puluwatu (whois) Pu Kunir winita,
resident of Cukulan under Tilimpik:all of them recei-
ved in ample measure 1 set of gattjar patra sisi cloth
(and) 1 pasada woh ring

10. weighing gold 1 suwarna, eachin particular. The

wife of sang (pamagat) Puluwatu (viz.) pu Babi,
resident of Babahan under Puluwatu received 1 piece
of skirt (and) 1 pasada woh-ring weighing gold 8 mdse.
The raka

of Halaran (viz.) Pu Basu, the raka of Palarhyang
(viz.) pu Pufijang, the elinan® (dalinan?) (viz.) Pu
Galatha, the wlahan (viz.) Pw Dhepu, the manghurt
(viz.) Pu Cakra, the pangkur (viz.) Pu Raiijan, the
tawan (viz.) Pu Ward, the tirip (viz.) Pu Krsna, the
wadihati {viz.) Pu Dapit, the makudur

(viz.) Pu Sambrada:all of them received in ample
measure coloured cloth 1 set (and) 1 pasada woh-ring
weighing gold 8 masa, each in particular. || The
pamihang® of sang hyang kudur (received) cloth 1 set
(and) gold 4 masa.

18. The two tuhdn-s of the wadihati: sang miramirah

(viz.) Si Rayung (and) mangrangkpi halaran (viz.) So
Rahula, resident (s) of Pangramuan under Wadibati ;
the two tuhdn-s of the makudur:sang asamafijang (viz.)
Si Dharmma and sang tanghil

sugih (viz.) Si Maniksa, resident(s) of Mantyasih
under Makudur:all (of them) received in ample measure
cloth 1 set (and) gold 4 masa, each in particular. || The
lumaku manusuk of Wadihati: sang wurukuy™ (viz.)
Si Managast, /

43. His functions are not known,
6 | ta

42 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

15, resident of Pandamuan (under) Wadthati, and the
lumaku manusuk of Makudur: sang hamalagyan™ (viz.)
Si Lalita, resident of Palikét under Makudur:all {of
them) received in ample measure cloth 2 sets (and)
gold 8 mdsa, in all,

16, (along with) their respective pangangihat{s) (7)."
|| Even so, all the (officers called) tuhdn manmuat ujar**:
the garujar-s of Hino: sang kandamuhi (vis.) Si
Tunggang, resident of (zunungan under Tangkil, (and)
the citralekha™ tiwatne warrant

If, 1. (ere.) St Manés8r, resident of Tamalinggang under
Sirikan; the parujar of Halu:sang wrsaga (viz) oe
Wiryya, resident of Pakalangkyangan under Pagar
wsi; the parujars of Sirikan:sany hujung galul"
(viz.) Sc Agra,

”. resident of Singha under Hino, (and) eitralehha:
dharmimasiuta (viz,) Si Parbwata, resident of Limusi
under Puluwatu; the parnjars of Whariwdndih (vi2z.)
Si Danunwe, (resident) of Skar tan under Layuwatang,
(and) ettralekha:halung

3. manuk (iz.) Si Gowinda, of the village of Wanua
tnghah under Wurutunggal; the parwjer of Tirnan:
sumudan (viz.) Si Kasura, resident of Wungkudu’’
under Kilipan:all (af them) received in ample measure
cloth | set {and) gold

4, 4 mdga, each in particular, || The parujar of Halaran
(viz,) Sang Wijanta, resident of Talumpuk in Suming-

44. [ have provisionally accepted it as a title.

45, The term also occurs elsewhere. of. OJO AXMIL: 13-14; MUI:
y® 4, ete. Its ordinary meaning does not appear to be acceptable here.

46. They are the same as tahdn mamuat wuwus. They are officers
and, under the name of parujar, form an important group among the
recipients. They appear, however, to belong to a lower category of
officers subordinate to the high dignitaries. ef, OV., 1925, p. 48.

47, Designer. .

48. However see Rouffaer in BRI, 77 (1921) p. 364 and Sarkar,
Dacea University Studies, 1, p. 19. f.n. 1. ry

49, Dr, Stutterheim (TBG., 67, pp. 182-183) brings this place-name inte
connexion with Wungkulur of Nag: 77, 3: 14, _

COPPER-PLATES OF KEMBANG ARUM, 824 SAKA 43

kar under Kanduh; the tuha of the united. body of the
nayaka-s of Puluwatu (viz.) Si Samadhi, of ihe village
of Pangaruhan; the copper-smith

5. and tuhd of Lampuran (viz.) Si Dhaniti, resident of
Wukulan under Tilimpik; the parujar of Manghuri:
sang ranubra®® (viz.) Si Samodaya, resident of Singha-
pura®! under Halu manghi; the parujar of Pangkur:

6. dédélan (viz.) Si Dhyana, resident of Rilam under
Aluhur; the parujar of Tawan:sang daluk' (viz.) Si.
Krsna, resident of Srai under Lampungan; the parujar
of Tirip:sang pangadagan' (viz.) Sd Singha,

7%. resident of Parangmangjahijjahit:all (of them) re-
ceived in ample measure cloth 1 set (and) gold 2 masa,
each in particular.|| The pitungtung-s of the parujar of
Manak : the Zua'-s (viz.) St Barubuh and Si Waru, all
residents

8. of Ralua under Wurutunggal; (the pitungtung of
the parujar of) Wuatan yai (viz.) Sc Kbél, resident of
Wuatan yai under Watu humalang; (these) received
in ample measure cloth 1 set and (gold ?)1 mdsa, each
in particular.|]| The three patih-s of Puluwatu: the

9. mamas (viz.) St Tirisan, father of Yoga, and the
tajyangim (viz.) St Kandi, father of Lucira, their
tunggadurung (viz.) Si Sarana, father of Wawul; all
(of them) received in ample measure cloth.1 set. (and)
gold 2 masa, each in particular. || _ ’

10. The parujar of the patih of Kaficil (who is) the father
of Wandi received 1 piece of. cloth (and) gold 1 mésga.||
The three wahuta-s of Puluwatu:the airhajo® (viz.) Si
Dras, father of Waringin; his tunggadurung (viz.) So
Baisakha, father of Tumwa; the wohuta of the winkas

11. of Wkas (or, the foremost winkas) (viz.) Si Katis ; (all
these) received in ample measure cloth 1 set (and)

50. The significance of the term is not quite clear,

51. Dr. Stutterheim (op. cit.) brings this place-name into cormnexion
with Simapura of Nag: 77: 3: 1-4.

52. The same as airhaji?..

44 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

gold 2 mdya, each in particular. {|} The wahuta of
DLampuran (véc.) St Bhadra and his pihujung-s, five
persons, all received in ample measure one piece

12. of cloth (and) gold 1 mdse, each in particular.|| The
rime mdygéman-s of the village that was marked ont
at Panggumulan, 6 persons’ (:) the halang manguwu
{riz.) $2 Pingul, father of Udi; the gusti (riz) Si#
Atag, father of Rangga ; the winkas (viz.) Si Wudal,

13. father of Demoh: the teka banua {viz.) Si Guna,
father of Dayang; the rdiae wotuhe (e/z.) Si Wlane

ie my

father of Gro ; the sculptor of the waty giana (i e.. the

foundation-stone) (e/r.) Si Sri, father of Bukang, hail-

ing from Dihyang 3" (all of them) received in am ple
measure cloth 1 set (and)

14. poll 2 médsa, each in particular, Aforeover, the
migéinan-s, T persons, (and) the hafang {ot the) tung.
gitdurvng-a (viz.) Si Tude, father of Bhaistkha: the
(viz.) Sd Brit, S82 Kypul, father of Mahéar; the two
wadahuma-s** (namely 2) Si Plat, .

15. father of Dharmma and $i Uiija, father of Gamweh:
St Doho, father of Rumya; Si Ranggil, father of
Tugan; Si Kaladhara, father of Udayana; Si Mangoh,
father of Tarum ; all (of them) received in ample
measure

16, cloth 1 set {and) gold 1 mdisa, each in particular.
Lite children, 18 persons: S8/ Blonde, Si Karan, Si
Uyana, Si Plat, Si Muga, §/ Kundu, Si Glo, Sé
Aléng,"’ Si Bahu, Si Glar,

a2. Theiz functions are not known.

53. In the following enumeration of six names, one comes from
Dibyang. He cannot, therefore, be a rama mageman of Panggumular.
So, one name appears to be missed by the copyist.

24. The writer has employed the Skt. sandhi-rule here.

53. As Dihyang or Diéng was the sacred place per excellence,
there is no wonder that the sculptor belonged to that place.

36. Their functions are not known. SS

37. Thewriter has employed the Skt, Sendhi-rule here.

Sea ee

cS

COPPER-PLATES OF KEMBANG ARUM, 824 SAKA 45

17, Si Limbu, Si Tunggi, Sz Tidu, Si Gwari, Si Kawé8l,
St.Balubu, S¢ Bngal, Si Drawéng; all (of them)
received in ample measure one piece of cloth (and)
gold 1 Aupang, each in particular.||: The older matrons:
Si Turuk, mother of Ngga;

18. Si Tadah, mother®* of Bai; Si Rumpung, mother of
Daimoh; (all) received in ample measure one piece of
skirt (and) Aampit 1, each in particular. || Moreover,
mothers of young children, 15 persons: S¢ Gawi, mother.
of Krena; Sc Magya, mother of Sryan; Sz Kuduk,
mother of.

ITl.a.1. Ramptan; Si wrut, mother of Tugan ; Sz
Kinang, mother of Barubuh; Si Daki, mother of
Mahéar; Si Turukan, mother of Tarum; Si Haryya,
mother of Ramya; Si Balyah, mother of Gamwo; S¢
Pufijang, mother of Gamwais, Si Lamyat, mother of
Bani; Sz Dayang, mother of Dayana;

2. Si Dita, mother of Biredis; Si Kutil, mother of Go;
Si Tugan, mother of Wdai ; in all, 15 persons received
in ample measure one piece of skirt, each in particular.||
The wives of the youngsters: Si Mahyang, Si Tagés, Sz
Rikha, Sz Sojara, Si Widoh,

3. Si Rampwas, Si Kadya, Si Camma; in all, 8 persons
received in ample measure silver 4 mdsa, each in
particular.|| Even so, those of the neighbouring.
villages who went to be witnesses: the patih of Hino ;

the patih of Kulumpang (namely >) Sz Pufijang,

4, father of Sri ; the two patih-s of Tiru ranu; the
patih-s of Pandawutan (viz.) Si Pryangka, father of
Kurutug and Si: Parama, father of Wulakan; all (of
them) received in ample measure cloth 1 set (and) gold
2 masa, each in particular.|| The rama-s*° of the neigh-
bouring places who went to be -

5. witnesses: (the rdma) of Suru under Ho (Hino ?)
(and) his kalang (viz.) St Pagar, grandfather of
58. 1 suppose rai to be the abbreviated form of raina.

59. rangma=ra(ng)ma, die., rama, — oor
46 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

Mahi; his perujar (viz) Ac Yahil, fother of Waris;
(the pas of Tguhan under Linggang: the gustt (riz.)
Si Sunglit, father of Piéng: his gerujar (cic) oe Wali,
fatherof Taluk; (the ree) ot Purud under Puran-
aterecr sia

G. the pande kalang™ (riz) &? Tal A father of Swimi: his
parujar cei.) Si Tuntt: (the edad of Pastamwir: the
fuedang (ais.) Ar Gomak sara, father vy Jaluk: his parujar
(viz.) &¢ Uneda, father of Nisitk; (the rdme) of Nina-
wuhan under {lino: the gasté (vig.) Si Dandeng, grand-
father of AWi; his parujur (viz,)

7. 8? Tudu; (the rata) of Wangun anwtk under Pangu-
ruban: the pande of the rdane qatudot-s friz.) Ar Pyaul,
father of Saddhi: his parupre (vied 8? dudang: (the
r@ime) of Mungen wuatan under Landa tameir: the
rime meutuha (cir) Sc Wadni, father of Tmpiin ;

8S. wll the neighbours who went to be witnesses:
{ lad in all (7); the patié-s of men, 4 persons; all
(of them) received in umple measure cloth 1 set (and)
gold 2 mdse, each In parudecnular,|| Their perajars, in all
6 persons, received in ample measure one piece oF cloth

9, (and) gold 1 mdsa, euch in particular,|] Necessaries
for marking out the free-holl: (fer) sang fyang
Brahma, cloth 1 set (and) geld 1 wadsay (for) sang
‘ee huchompang, cloth 4 sets (and) gold 4 visa, axe

1, plaue 1, matiock 1, curved chopper 1, grass-cutter 1,

10, crowbar 4, cleaver 1, tiny hoe], gulumil, byrien-
bhegi-knife 1, BHEE DGS 1, dom J, tahas 1, 6501,
lamp 1, cooking bowls 2, sack 1, unbolstered rice 1
hadut, wsiikat 1, goat, (buifale-) heads 11,

Ll. kAwzmel 1, cooked rice 4 pots, offering dish I, cloth
with precious stones of different co vlours® 1, offerings 0,

ee 60. This appears to be the sare as tithes kalang.

ae ; 6). I think hos to be a mis-reading for hop.

eins 62. Wan Naerssen fop, cit, p. 13 and fon. 7) offers the
alternative translation of: a throne set with precious stones (7), See

also Kern, VG., Vil, p. 46.

COPPER-PLATES OF KEMBANG ARUM, 824 SAKA 47

unbolstered rice on one dish, 4 hens, 4 eggs and the
five necessaries for offering (viz.) flower, paint, lamp,
frankincense (and) scent.|| After all have

12, eaten, they removed themselves, made toilette with
paint and flower, and sat on the ground ina circle,
with the face turning to sang hyang kudur and the
sacred sima watu kulumpang (which was placed) under
the tent in the middle of the (selected) ground. The
manner of sitting (of the persons present is as follows) :

13. Sang pamagat Pikatan, the raka of Wantila,® the
samagat Manungkuli took position in the north and
faced the south; sang wahuta hyang (s) of the kudur
and all the tuhan mamuat wuwus-es took position in the
west and faced the east;

14. wahuta-s, patih-s and ramanta-s and all the residents ©
of neighbouring villages** took position in the south
and faced the north.*© (Now) sang makudur began to
swear, curse and take oath: he separated the neck of
the hen which was crushed

15, on the susu kulumpang, threw off the egg on the
sacred watu sima-and placed sang hyang Brahma*
by the susu (kulumpang), (saying): “Just asthe dead
hen cannot return to life, just as the shell of the
egg is broken into hundred parts, just as

16. sang hyang Brahma always burns fuels on all sides
and then steadily destroys and burns them down. with-—
out leaving (?) ashes to be swept away (by the wind),
similarly (may be destroyed) the unrighteous person
who disturbs the village of Panggumulan that has

63. Dr. Bosch draws our attention to the fact that the founder of the
free-hold occupies the central position in the north. See OV, 1925, p. 47.

64. Bosch has remarked that the same Che has been maintained in
the distribution of gifts.

65. On the arrangement of seats, see Bosch, op. cil, pp. 47-48. A
somewhat original arrangement of seats is described in an inscription of
Balitung published by Dr. Van Necusen in Aanw. i Tnst., 1934, Bil, A.

66. The Fire-god. a END ;

48 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

been marked out into a free-hold by the raha of
Wantil and marked out

17. by the Audur and the subordinate staff of the
rakryan mapatih.’ Such were the curses of sang
makudue. These were listened to he the Hon. wahuta-s
patih-s and the rdma-s, all the residents of the village
asalso all the neighbours, They paid respects to the
sacred wat sina

. kulumpang and saluted (it) with devotion. Further,

without disturbing such (things), all ofthem returned
to their tlontar-) leaves ww eat: all of them were
fed with excellent rice, fumpud, asiuasin, dried meat af
kakep-tish Cand) dried meat of headswas-tish, heaps of
them,

19. jas also) fayar-leyar, cray-fish, falahala®® (and)
eggs. Leven so, two buifuloes (and) one ypoat were
cooked, (These) were fully prepared with spices and
were sufficiently taken in aud relished, Kw@lan*® (and)
pining ha were (algo) euoked.,

20. There were (also) cooked meat (7), vegetables and
kneaded tetis’®. Mven so, wine was drank: there were
palm-wine and rum, there were the juice of jatc!
aud the sap of cocos, Now there was dancing. The
mapadaht, the marégang (riz.) Si Catu (who is} the
father of Kriyi, the mahbréfiuk™

Vit. b. a. (ciz.) Si Wart (whois) the father of Goga;
(they) received one piece of cloth fand) gold 1 mdgsa,
each in particular.|| The four méla pafijutes™: St Ma
(who is) the father of Kutil, 8: Mangol, Si Sigara (and)

67. A kind of aquatic animal >

68. Evidently a kind of food-stuff,

69. Evidently they are alyo some kind of food,
76. | do not know what this substance is.

7i. A kind of tree.

72. A class of musicians.

73. Their functions are unknown,

2.

3.

6.

7.

COPPER-PLATES OF KEMBANG ARUM, 824 ‘SAKA 49

St Mandon, received gold 1 méasa, each in particular.
The mila wulé™ (viz.)

Si Mari received gold 1 kupang, Si Pe oer (who is)
a buffoon received silver 4 mdsa. (While) going to
sell rice, the people of Tunggalangan were seen to pass
by at that time, going towards the market of Sindingan,
4 persons: Sz ‘

Antyan, S¢ Rampal, S¢ Surat, sins Arani; the tulung
tutu’? of Tiru ranu; the people of Sarupsu, 3 per-
sons: Si Biddhi, Si Kyaing, S2 Goda. (All of them)
received silver 1 kupang, each in particular, The
Hon. patih-s, wahuta-s and

ramanta-8, matrons and all the residents of the
village—men and women, old and young—ate, drank
(and then) returned to (their) living places: nobody
remained behind at that time to eat, drink (and) dance.
All expressed the satisfaction of their mind. Now is

expressed (this) that henceforward is absolutely
settled and confirmed the village of Panggumulan
under Puluwatu, (as this) is marked out inte a free-
hold by sang wahuta hyang.(s) (of the) kudur and all
the tuhan mamuat ujar-s. The free-hold of the
rakryan of Wantil (viz.) Pw Palaka |

and his wife (viz.) dyah Prasida and his sons (viz.) Pu
Palaku, Pu Gowinda (and) Pu Wangi tamuy, is a gift of
love for the god and the goddess of Kinawuhan (and) is
to be confirmed for the remotest fuknre. If there is any
unrighteous person

who disturbs the free-hold of Panggumulan under
Puluwatu, and also he who destroys the susu (kulwm-
pang) so long as the moon and the sun remain in the
sky and illuminate the earth-ball, for this period such
person may suffer (the penalties of)

74, His function is not known to me.
75. The writer has employed the Skt. Sandhi-rale here.
76. A class of ed i or, officers.

7 .
50 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

S. the five great sins. The watu warani, dhariamasinta

and Aalung manuk wrowe this ediet (presasti). [WO]

Hail ! The Saka year espired, 825, the month of

Bhadra, fourth day of the dark half of the mouth,

wurakung, kaliwon,*s |

. Monday. At that time, the ratryan of Wantil,

husband and wite (eiz.) Pu Palaka and (his) wife dyah

Prasida and their three sons (viz.) Pe Palaka, Pu

Gowinda (and) dyahk Wangitamuy, purchased

10. the lands of the rduranta-3 of Dangeumulan: these
were mortyayzed (fo cthers?); the garden named Siddha.
yoga’ and the sewaA-tields at Panilman were pur-
chased for silver 4 dati from the duyaafa Drabhu

lk. and the dapunta Kaca** This silver was received
by the tala halang of Panggamulan (ez) Si Tudai
(who is} the father of Be,the gusfi (vis.) Si Blonda,
the winhes (eis.) AZ Wadaél (who is) the father of

12, Paimoh, the eda maratd (s) (ciz.) Pu Dharmma, Pu
Ramani, Si Uiju, Si Vidu, the fadw wras (ere.) St
Ratni, the jatata™ (viz.) $i Suni. The witnesses thereof
are the mariyang of Daksina™ (¢ic.) dapunta Mirtti,
the pasingir® (viz.) Si Go (who is) ihe futher of Ruci,
the dapunta Tiwi, (This is) written by sang Karamwa,

9

77, A&A Mal.-Polynesian day of the six-day week.

78 A Mal.-Polynesian day of the five-day week.

79, The temple of Siddhayoga where a god ie worshipped is referred
to in OJO LI dating from 866 Saka.

80. Dr. Bosch, however, thinks that Pu Palaka, his wife and three
sons redeemed the mortgaged lands of the rdmna-s of Panggumulan, where-
by were given in mortgage the land named Siddhayoga and the sawah-
field at Panilman which latter one was purchased for silver 3 Rati, ete.

81. This appears to be a mistake for jataka,

B82. Lit. The southern region. Daksina may, however, be the name
of a place.

83. This may mean ‘neighbour’.

Dacca,

MISCELLANY

4
A New Drama of Asvaghosa
By \VIDHUSHEKHARA BHATTACHARYA

Liiders and other scholars have shown from the frag-
ments of palm-leaf manuscripts discovered at Turfan, that
Agvaghosa is the author of a drama entitled Sdriputrapra-
karana or Saradvatiputraprakarana which is in nine Acts.
The same manuscripts give us the information also of two
other dramas, one an allegorical one like Krsnamiéra’s Pra-
bodhacandrodaya and the other possibly a prakarana like
Mrechakatikd, in which figures a courtesan, Magadhavati.
There is no positive evidence of their being written by
Aévaghosa, but as their fragments are found in the manu-
script in which those of the Sdriputraprakarana are con-
tained it is probable that they are also of the same author.

Now itis clearly found in the Va@danydya of Dharma-
kirtti (ed. Rahula Sankrtyayana, p. 63), that Aévaghosa
wrote a drama Rdastrapdla or Rastrapdlandtaka. Dharma-
kirtti writes :

nasty Atmeti vayam Bauddha briimah/

ke Bauddhah/

ye Buddhasya bhagavatah Sdsanam abhyupagatah/

ko Buddho bhagavan/

yasya Sasane bhadanta Agvaghosah craviasital fe

kah punar bhadanta Aévaghosah/

yasya Rastrapalam nama natakam/

About the drama itself the text says:

kidréam Rdastrapalam nama natakamiti/

prasangam krtva nandyante tatah pravisati Sitradharah /

There is nothing more of the drama. The last portion
of the passage quoted immediately above indicates some
peculiarity about the Hemmniites of this drama. 3 a

52 VIDHUSHEKHARA BHATTACHARYA

Further information about this drama comes from a
commentary, Nydyamafijarigranthibhanga by one Cakra-
dhara, son of Bhattagankara, on the Nydyamafijari of Jay-
antabhatta (900 A. D.). It is written there that Agvaghosa
is the author of the Rdjyapdlandtaka’. It is te be noted
that we have here Rajyapala® and not Rdsfrapdla” as in
Vadanydya. But this difference is immaterial, and we have
reasons to believe that the latteris the right reading. One
will do well to examine the manuscript of the Nydyamafijari-
granthibhanga in order to get some more light on the point.

We may think that the plot of the drama is taken from
the Ratthapdlasutia in the Majjhimanikdya (82)°. It is
quite fitto be dramatised. For easy reference the summary
of the story as given by Winternitz in his History of Indian
Literature (Eng. edition), Vol ll, pp. 48-49, is given below
with slight modification here and there.

The young prince Ratthapala desires to become a monk,
His parents absolutely refuse to consent, but, by refusing
to take any food, he compels them to give their permission.
Years later, he returns as a monk to his native town, and
begs atthe door of his parents’ home. His father does
not recognise him, nor does he give him anything. ‘“‘By
these shaven monks,’’ he cries, “‘our only dearly beloved son
was induced to renounce the world."’ Meanwhile, a maid-
servant comes out to throw away some scraps of food. The
mendicant monk begs for these seraps for his meal. Then
she recognises him as the sonof the house and announces
this to her master. The latter comes out and invites his
son to enter the house. The latter politely declines, saying
“Not so, | have already dined to-day."" However, he
accepts an invitation for the next day. His father prepares
for him not only a meal, but heaps up gold and ornaments

1. See the Catalogue of M5S. in Jessimer Bhandars, Gackwad’s
Oriental Series, No. XXI, p. 31.
; 2. See Ragirapala Avadéne in the a eee (90), and Ratjhapala
Apadana in the Apadina

A NEW DRAMA OF ASVAGHOSA 53

in the dining-room, and instructs the former wives of Rattha-
pala to adorn themselves. The next day he is received
splendidly, and his father offers him all the jewels and
treasures. But Ratthapala says: “‘If you want to follow my
advice, father, then load all the gold and ornaments on a
cart and throw it into the Ganges where it is deepest. And
why? Because nothing but pain and misery, wretchedness
and sufferings will arise out of it.’’ Neither will he have
anything to do with the women, who throw themselves
coaxingly at his feet. After he has finished his meal, he
goes his way, Then he meets the King of the Kuru-land,
who says that he can understand that a person who has
become old or ill or poor or has lost his relatives becomes
a monk, but he cannot understand why one who is young,
happy and healthy should renounce the world. Ratthapala
answers him in a speech on the vanity of existence and
insatiableness of desire, and convinces the Kuru-King in a
Socratic dialogue, of the truth of the doctrine of Buddha.
Whether this is the subject-matter of the drama cannot be
ascertained until the drama is discovered.
Calcutta.

A note on the Indian prototypes
of the Papar relief

By Jrtespnsa Naty BaNeniea

Attention was drawn by me to the proper identification
of an image which was discovered in Papar, Kediri (East
Java}, in the last issue of the Journal of the Greater India
Society (vol. 1V, no. 2; p. 137ff.). attempted to prove that
the relief in question combined a few of the iconographic
features of the three different varieties of the images of Gauri
(Gauryddayah) viz. Sri, Parvati and Totala as described
in the Riipamandana, an iconographic text probably
compiled by a Mewar Sculptorin the 13th century A.D. |
referred to certain South Indian and East Indian images,
both stone and bronze, of dates ranging from the 8th to the
l2th centuries A.D. in order to prove that the compara-
tively late iconographic texts like the one utilised by me
were based on actual images of much earlier date. In the
present note | wish to draw the attention of scholars to one
of the side figures (Parseadevatds) in the fairly oldtemple of
Mahadeva at BuchkalA in Jodhpur State, for demonstrating
that more orless similar figures were also made in
Rajputana. The early Siva temple there, facing east,
consists of a sanctum and a porch. D.R. Bhandarkar
describes thus the pdrgvadevatis of the temple: in its
principal niches on the north and the south faces are
Harihara and Ganapati respectively; in the back niche is
a standing image of a goddess with four hands. Below on
each side of her is a cup (2) with flames issuing out of it,
and above on her right is a linga and on her left Ganapati.
Unfortunately the writer of the above report does not
furnish us with more details about the attributes held in the
four hands of the female deity, nor does he mention the
object on which the goddess is made to stand. But the few

INDIAN PROTOTYPES OF THE PAPAR RELIEF 55

details about her which are noticed by him disclose her
identity. A firepot on her either side and the phallic
emblem of Siva on the top right and Ganapati on the top
left of the prabhdvali prove that she belongs to the Parvati-
variety of the Gauri images. The difference between the
Elura Parvati (noticed in my previous article) and this
image lies in that the former holds the Sivalinga and
Ganapati in her two upper hands while the latter does not
do so. In this respect the Buchkala image has some affinity
with the many stone images of Parvati-Gauri of Eastern
India also mentioned by me in my previous article. It is,
however, interesting to observe in this connection that
these types of Devi images which must have served as the
prototypes of the Papar image were known not only in
eastern and southern India, but also in northern India. The
temple in which the image appears as a parévadevatd was
most probably erected during the time of the imperial
Pratiharas.

J. D. R. Bhandarkar, ‘Progress Pca of the Archaeological
Survey of India,’ Western Circle, 1907, Pp. 38.

Caleutia.
é
Note on a Type of Lokesvara in Carnbodge

By Dr. U. N, GHosHAL

In the course of his luminous survey of the Lokeévara
cult in Indo-China’ published some years back, the late
lamented M. Finet had occasion to speak of the group of
temples now called Nak Pan lying on the northern out-
skirts of Angkor Thom. The researches of M. Finot
and Goloubew"? had previously demonstrated that the
temple was a sanctuary of Lokesvara erected in the middle
of a tank representing the Anavatapta Lake. Among the
antiquities recovered from this site were some fragments
of sculpture which Finot in the paper above-mentioned
took to represent two hands holding a bowl with the
neck turned towards the bottom (‘‘quelques fragments
représentant deux mains portant un vase le goulot
dirigé vers le bas’’)*, With these fragments Finot aptly
compared a standing figure of Avalokitegvara from Sarnath,"
where the god has a dhyadni Buddha in samadhi pose
placed above his head and holds with both hands a bow!
in front of his breast. The only difference noticed by
Finot® between the Indian and Indo-Chinese images was
that while at Sarnath the bowl is held in its natural position,
at Nak Pan it is turned downwards andin case of figure a
it actually represents the flow of the liquid.

1. Lokegvera en Indo-Chine, in Eusls Asiatiques, tome |,
pp. 227-256,

2. be symbolisme de Nak Pam, BEFEO., XXII, pp. 401-5,
quoted Ibid.

co Eimdes Asiatiques 1, p. 248 and Pl. 23, figs. a and b.

4. Noticed in Ann. Rep. of the Arch. Survey of India, 1904-5, p. 82
and Pl. XXIM b; also in Cat. of Mus, of Archaeology at Sarnath by
Daya Ram Sahni, pp. 199-20 and Pl. XIV,

5, Etudes Asiatiques |, p. 249 n.

i
H |
{
4
i

eS a ee

NOTE ON A TYPE OF LOKESVARA IN CAMBODGE 57

A careful scrutiny of the Nak Pan fragments makes us
hesitate to accept Finot’s suggested identification. In
figure b, it will be observed, the bowl has its lid closed
which is rather an unusual pose for holding it downwards,
Again in figure a, what is called the flow of the liquid looks
more like the big stopper of a bottle. That the artists of
Cambodia were not unacquainted with the natural represen-
tation of vases held downwards will appear from some
reliefs on pediments of the smaller pavilions at Nak Pan
which are reproduced by Finot.° Here the vase held
downwards is not only wanting in its lid, but the flow of
the liquid is shown by long vertical lines. We have there-
fore to look elsewhere for explanation of these mysterious
fragments.

If we turn M. Finot’s photograph upside down, we at
once find it to represent a bowl held upright with both
hands joined in a kind of afijali pose. It thus very closely
approaches the Sarnath AvalokiteSvara image where
similarly both the hands of the god are shown as nsleiae .
the bowl in afijali mudra. :

Have we any clue for discovering the form of Avalo-
kiteSvara represented in these images? In Dr. Benoytosh.
Bhattacharya’s description of the 108 forms of Avalo-_
kite$vara known to the Macchandar Vihal at Kathmandu,
the varieties of Lokeévara holding the bowl or. water-pot in
both hands are Vagyadhikara Lokeévara (Pl. XLIV, No. 8),
Nilakantha Lokegvara (PI. XLVII, No. 17), Pindapatra
Lokegvara (PI. LXI, No. 73), and Dharmadhatu Lokeévara
(Pl, LXV, No. 90). Unfortunately all these forms are shown |
as holding the bowl in the samadhi pose. Nevertheless
Dr. Bhattacharya has tentatively identified’ the Sarnath
image with Nilakantha Lokegvara. In favour of this
identification it may be pointed out that the bowl held by
the god in the Sarnath figure looks more like a vessel full of

6 doe. cit, Pl. VIL. E :
7, op. cit., p. 49 and Pl. XXUL e ee

§

58 U. N. GHOSHAL

gems that a water-pot, while in the Sddhana texts quoted
by the same scholar, Nilakantha is the only form of Loked-
vara holding a bowl of gems in both hands®. Inthe N&k
Pan fragments still more than in the Sarnath image, the
bow! looks like a vessel for containing gems. We may
thus tentatively identity them as belonging to the same
group of Nilakantha Lokegvara as the Sarnath image. It
must, however, be admitted that the other attributes of the
deity, such as the sacred thread made of deer-skin, the
absence of ornaments, the two cobras on either side, are
completely wanting in the Sarnath image.

8. Cf. the epithet ndndratnaparipdrnakapaladharinam in the
aidhana of Nilkaptha Lokesvara, op. cit,, p. 48...

‘pis Eye ee

Katahanagara in the Kaumudimahotsava
By Dr. DINEs CHANDRA SIRCAR

In a paper contributed to the Journal of the Andhra
Historical Research Society, Rajahmundry, | have suggested
that the celebrated Sanskrit drama Kaumudimahotsava
(J.A.H.R.S., U-Il], Appendix) is not earlier than the 7th or
8th century A. D. In this connection it is interesting to note
that the drama mentions (p. 37) Katahanagara as a familiar
and famous place, together with Kafici and other well-known
Indian cities. This Katahanagara appears to be no other
than the celebrated city of Kataha, identified with Keddah
in the Malay Peninsula. Kataéha became famous in the
eastern world with the ascendancy of the imperial dynasty
of the Sailendras about the 8th century A.D. The Sailendra
Emperors are known to have had political relations with the
Palas of eastern India in the ninth century and with the
Colas of southern India in the tenth and eleventh centuries |
A.D.! This possibly explains why Kataha figures prominent-
ly in Medieval Indian works like the Kathé-sarit-sdgara.”

It may however be pointed out that the Vamana’ and ©
Garuda* Puranas mention Kataha in the list of the nine
divisions of Bharata-varsa in. place of Saumya or Gandharva
mentioned in other Puranas, like the Markandeya,’ Visnu,°
Vayu,’ Brahmanda,® etc. But it is interesting to note that —

1. R. C. Majumdar, Suvarnadvipa, pp. 1528; 1678.

2. Ibid., p. 51; Katha-sarit-sigara, Taranga 13, verse 70f; Taraiga
56, verse 54: Taranga 61, verse 3; Taranga 123, verses 1508 ; 110. !

3. XIN, 10-11. 4, Piirva-khanda, 35 14-5.

5. 57, 6. 6. Part HI, 3, 6. 7, 45,795. -

8. 49, 13. The Puranic texts cones ee are Shose published by the
Bangabasi Office, Calcutta, = ae :

a

60 DINES CHANDRA SIRCAR

Ptolemy ( middle of the 2nd century A. D.}, who gives a
fairly detailed account of Malayasia,® does not mention any
name like Kat&ha.*® Itis therefore not impossible that the
references to Kathha in the Vamana and Garuda Puranas
are later interpolations. They do not appear to be earlier
than the period when Kataha became famous under the
Sailendra emperors. The Kaumudimahotsava seems also to
be a work of the same age.’!

G. Geogtaphy, VH, ii.

10. Alberini’s India (translated by Sachau, p. 296 of Part I) does
not recognise the reading Ketdha in place of Saumya or Gindharva.

ll. The evidence of “an old Tamil poem’ (Suvernadvipa, p. 170
which refers to Kalagam (idertified by a later commentator with

' Kadatam, ic. Kattha} is not beyond doubt,

Calcutta.
NOTICES OF BOOKS

The Kharias, by Sarat Chandra Roy, M.A. and
Ramesh Chandra Roy, M. Sc. with a Foreword by Dr. R.R.
Marett, M.A., D.Sc., Lil. D., F. B.A. Vol. 1 (2). Pp. xiv
+1 to 306; Vol. HI. Pp. 307 to 530+ xlxvi (2) (perhaps lvi).
Published by the authors from ‘Man in India’ Office,
Ranchi.

Anthropologists are indebted to Rai Bahadur Sarat
Chandra Roy and Mr. Ramesh Chandra Roy for a thorough,
reliable and minute account of the Kharias of Chota Nagpur
and the adjacent tracts. Rai Bahadur Sarat Chandra Roy is
well known among anthropologists for his accounts of the
Mundas, Oraons, Birhors, and Bhiiiyads. He has lifted the
veil of mystery which shrouded the jungle tribes of Ranchi
plateau and has made us thoroughly acquainted with these
tribes through his pen-pictures. The volume under discus-
sion is the product of twelve years of field-work on the part
of Mr. S. C. Roy and the joint-author collaborated in the
latter part of this work. During 1930-1932. the joint-author

worked on the Khariads under the direction of the late —

Dr. P. Mitra, M. A., Ph. D. of the University of Calcutta
and he submitted a thesis on this tribe, which was duly
approved in lieu of two papers for the M. Sc. Examination
of the University in Anthropology in 1932.— ,

The book consists of sixteen chapters and four appendi-
ces and an index. The sixteen chapters deal with the
habitat and population, the origin and migrations, previous
accounts of the tribe, their physical anthropology, material
culture, social organization, tribal government, birth,
childhood, and puberty rites, marriage, pregnancy and
divorce, death and its attendant ceremonies, religious
beliefs, deities and spirits, religious feasts and festivals,
magic and witchcraft, folklore, myths, amusements and —
games, art, dances and songs and. a general view of Sharia ay

4 NOTICES OF BOOKS

life and manners which forms the conclusion. In the four
appendices we find records of physical measurements and
their averages, local distribution of clans and an account of
the source of Hill Kharia origin-myth.

The Kharias are scattered over a part of the ‘Central
Belt’? of India between 20° and 23° North Latitude and
79° and 87° East Longitude. ‘“In the extreme east of this belt
dwell the Erenga or Hill Kharids, in the middle the Diidh
Khariads, and in the west the Delki or Dhelki Kharids with a
sprinkling of Diidh Kharias.’" Quite a large number of the
tribe has migrated to Assam and Jalpaiguriin recent years.
According to the authors the “‘Hill Kharids have their
stronghold in the Simlipal range of the Mayurbhanj State.”
The Didh Khiarias are massed together on both banks of the
Sankh and South Koel in Gumla and Simdega subdivisions
of the Ranchi District and extend into the Gangpur State of
Orissa while the Dhelki Khirifs predominate in the Jashpur
State of the Central Provinces and the adjacent Talsera
Thana of the Gangpur State.

The Kharids are not free from contact with other
aboriginal tribes and Hindu or Hinduised castes. Even the
Hill Kharias, who are by nature shy and conservative, have
not escaped the influence of their Hindu neighbours. The
settled Didh and Dhelki Kharids also live in close associa-
tion with Hindu castes and aboriginal tribes and show their
influence in social customs, religious ideas and language.
Christianity has made considerable progress among this
tribe and out of 146,037 Kharids of Chota Nagpur and
Orissa, 63,725 have adopted Christianity. The authors are
of opinion that economic troubles coupled with persecution
of Hindu landlords and money-lenders have driven the
Kharids to the Christian fold. While on this point the
authors observe that though the Christian Missions have
“given an impetus to the intellectual and industrial progress
of the people through the spread of education”, they have
atthe same time “‘introduced a certain amount of com-
plexity and artificiality in the Khari converts’ life and

NOTICES OF BOOKS 63

tended to destroy the old tribal solidarity and to impair the
old exuberance of spirits and enjoyment of life among their
youth.”

In the section on “‘linguistic and racial affinities’ the
authors have only summarised the views of Sir George
Grierson and have stated that the Kharia language is spoken
by all the Kharias of Ranchi District, Gangpur and Jashpur
States and by some Kharids of Udaipur, Raigarh, Sarangarh
and Bilaspur. In other parts of Kharia area, .c.g, Mayurbhanj,
Bengal, Surguja, the remaining tributary States of Orissa,
etc. they speak the tongue of their more influential
neighbours.

Depending on the traditions of the Didh and Dhelki
sections our authors derive the Khariads from the Kaimur
Plateau. They identify Ruidas-Patna of their traditions
with Rohtasgarh or Rohtas Plateau of this range. The first
wave of Kharia migration consisted of the Hill Kharias who
established themselves in the hills of Mayurbhanj State.
They were followed by the Dhelkis who at first occupied the
banks of the Sankh in Ranchi whence they were dislodged
by the Diidh section which came last. The Hill Kharids too
have a tradition pointing to autochthonous origin in
Mayurbhanj but our authors have summarily rejected it.
Apropos of traditions, in the first paragraph of page 39 of
the book the authors say that ‘‘Russel (sic) traces the
descent of the Kharids from the elder of two brothers of
whom the younger by reason of his superior intelligence and
taste was made king and became the ‘ancestor of the Nag
Vaméi Rajas of Chota Nagpur.........." In the next para-
graph of the same page we find the following statement:
‘‘Mr. Russel (sic) further says that the theory that the
Kharias stand in the relationship of younger brothers to the
Mundas derives some support from the fact that, according
to Sir Herbert Risley™, the Mundas will take daughters in
marriage from the Kharias but will not give daughters to
them, and the Kharias speak of the Mundas as their elder
brothers.’ The fact is that Mr. Russell has all som stated

64 NOTICES OF BOOKS

that the Kharias stand as elder brothers to the Mundas and
has cited as a parallel case the relationship which tradi-
tionally persists between the Parjas and the Rajas of Bastar
or rather between the Parjas and the Raj-Gonds. (Vide
Russell and Hiralal: Tribes and Casies of the Central
Provinces, Vol. Il, pp. 445-446 & Vol. IV, pp. 372-373).
Moreover, Mr. Russell has not tried to prove that the
Kharias are the younger brothers of the Mundas from the
fact that ‘‘the Mundas will take daughters in marriage from
the Kharias but will not give daughters to them.’ Such
marriage customs rather prove the contrary and Mr. Russell
has utilised this fact exactly for that purpose.

The authors measured 270 Kharias (Didh Kharias~—100,
Dhelki Kharids—100, and Hill Kharias—70) between the
ages 30 and 45. They took 12 measurements and made
four observations on each individual. The individual
measurements and observations are recorded in Appendix I.
Tables, I, Land II]. From these measurements they con-
clude that ‘‘the Kharias are on the average, a dolichoce-
phalic, hypsicephalic (orthocephalic with a tendency to be
hypsicephalic), Platyrrhine and Chamaeprosopic (with a ten-
dency to be Mesoprosopic) people."” They have medium
stature, ‘brown to lightblack’ skin colour, ‘plentiful black
or dark-brown (among the Hill section mostly due to non-
use of oil and exposure to the sun) hair on the head’, ‘often
slightly or even moderately retreating forehead’, very
depressed nasal root and often concave nasal bridge. They
have small eyelids which are either straight or oblique
inwards and have a “‘tendency to form the epicanthic fold’*
ina very few cases. The face is often oval, ‘the malars
moderately developed and the zygomatic arches prominent’
in the majority. Alveolar prognathism is not uncommon
(more among the females}.

_ The authors’ remarks on skin colour, hair, eye, malars,
zygomatic arches, facial prognathism, and thickness of lips
seem to be made from impressions and not based on any
systematic record kept in the field. Their findings on the
NOTICES OF BOOKS | 6

nature of the forehead, supraorbital ridges, eversion of lips
and the contour of the face are not always brone out by the
facts recorded by them in Appendix |, Tables 1, I] and
Ill. Thus in describing the forehead it is written that The
forehead is often slightly or even moderately retreating ......
but a complete vertical forehead is rarely seen’’, An
analysis of the observations made by the authors and
recorded in Appendix I shows that the “‘straight”’ forehead
has got the highest percentage (45°18 p.c.), the slightly
retreating occupies the next place (44°07 p.c.) and the
retreating comes last (4’81 p.c.). Itis not clear. what they
mean by ‘“‘moderately retreating’ as this class is not
mentioned at the time of classification of data (Vide Vol. ll,
p. I]. App.). As regards eversion of lips the writers note that
“though not always everted, they have in some cases a
tendency to be everted.*’ The ‘tendency to be everted’ is
not found only in some cases but in the majority of cases,
asis evident from their own data. Thus among the 270
subjects examined about 58°14 per cent have got the
‘tendency to be everted’, 38°8 p.c. are ‘not everted’ and
2°96 are ‘everted’. |
The authors have classified the browridges into ‘promi-

nent’ ‘slightly: prominent’ and ‘not prominent’ groups in|
Appendix |. But while describing on page 60 they write
that they are “moderately developed in the majority’. We
do not find any group called ‘moderately developed’ in the
classification of the data, but if the authors mean by it the
‘slightly prominent’ group, then of course it has the majo-
rity. But it_is dificult to accept this identification as the
authors themselves differentiate between ‘slightly’ and
‘moderately’ at the beginning of the very same paragraph.
It is always safe and convenient to use the same terms in
classification as well as description of such data. The
different types of browridges occur in the following propor-
tion —‘prominent’— about 4 p. c., ‘slightly prominent’—
about 51 p.c. and ‘not prominent’ about 46 p.c.
The authors’ description of the face leaves the readers

66 NOTICES OF BOOKS

in doubt about the proportion of square and pentagonal
faces and the relation between square and oval faces. [f
they had analysed their own data, they would have found | i
the following proportions:—oval face—65'18 p.c., square ;
face—-29'25 p.c., and pentagonal face—5’5 p.c. Thus the iq

authors’ remark that ‘‘Pentagonal faces are not uncommon”
cannot stand. They are rather rare while the square face
is ‘not uncommon. i

In the analysis of physical measurements the authors ,
have adopted Haddon’s classification in all except one, viz., P
morphological facial index. The scales of differentiation :
as adopted from Haddon are not always accurate, ¢-g.,
orthocephalic heads range between 58 and —63 and not 64
as adopted by the authors. Moreover, the dash mark (—)
used by the authors uniformly in Haddon’s and Martin’s
scales have different meanings and this should have been
noted at the beginning in order to avoid confusion of the
‘lay readers.’

The Khariads are spoken of as ‘“‘hypsicephalic (orthoce-
| phalic with a tendency to be hypsicephalic)’’ The meaning
onde of the bracketted portion is not clear. From the following
pe percentages, viz., hypsicephalic—48'51 p. c., orthocephalic

ba —44°85 p.c. and platycephalic 7°4 p.c., it would appear }

on that the orthocephaly of the Kharids has a tendency towards
hypsicephaly.

cae In describing the physical affinities among the three )

; me sections of the Kharias the authors place the Dhelkis 5

i
;
a
»
i
ii
ae
oN

midway between the Hill and Didh sections. They have
not tried to discuss the physical relations of the Kharias
with the other tribes of the locality. One of the reasons
for which the authors did not compare their data with those
of previous workers is ‘difference due to personal errors.’
This seems to be a novel ground for avoiding comparison.
Personal error may vitiate the results when it is beyond a
certain limit. All published data are generally accepted by
scientists as within this limit and not beyond it. Of course,
it would be more strictly scientific if the workers mention

NOTICES OF BOOKS 67

{

their’ personal error’ at the very beginning but this has
not been practised by anybody in this branch of science.
Up to date Risley has been criticised for various reasons
but ae one has refused to compare his data for ‘personal
errors.

The chapter of physical anthropology of the Khiarias
has been illustrated with a number of photographic repro-
ductions showing the face and profile of individuals of both
sexes from the three sections of the tribe. The authors
have not tried to utilise these illustrations for showing the
characteristic features of the different Kharia types. There
is a serious slip in this connection, Fig. 19, illustrating
a Didh Kharia type (to face page 20) appeared in The
Birhors of Rai Bahadur Sarat Chandra Roy asa “Type ofa
Birhor adult of Samdhoar clan’’ (Vide The Birhors, Plate
XI, facing page 59).

The profusely illustrated chapter on material culture
of the Khris is a welcome feature of the book. It des-
cribes the annual and daily round of activities of all the
three sections of the tribe, their villages and houses, their
food and drink, household furniture and domestic utensils,
weapons and implements, musical instruments, field products
and industrial activities. But this excellent chapter has been
marred by a considerable amount of carelessness and
misuse of proper technical terms. Only afew of these are
noted below: —

(1) The numbers referring to plates or figures in the
body of this chapter are, in most.cases, not found on
the plates or figuresthemselves. | ma

(2) Page 74, line, 7. ‘‘They’’ here indicate both men
and women. Do the Kharii women generally use
bow and arrow? If so, it should have been
especially noted. Or is it a slip of the pen?

(3) Page 76, Lines, 6-7,. ‘Gets rice for the day’s use |

threshed and husked.”” Paddy is stored after
threshing as described on page 111. Then, how is
it again threshed daily before husking. =

Beene ae ae age ge ey a

2

i

68

(4)

(5)

NOTICES OF BOOKS

Page, 91, lines 4-7,.. The string-bed is said to be
made bya ‘“‘net-work”’ of strings of sabai grass. It
is not ‘‘net-work’? but mere woven-work. Nets
have always knots at regular intervals to form the
meshes. Even the figure of the string-bed in Plate
V (Fig. 15) shows absence of knots. It is difficult
to understand what the authors mean by ‘The
netting is twisted work’ (page 91, lines 6-7). Do
they mean the twisted strand?

Page 94. The Dhaki (a kind of big basket for
carrying and measuring grains and for bringing fuel)
is made of ‘“‘fine rounded bamboo strips about one
inch in diameter.’’ (Italics are ours). We have
never seena carrying basket made with bamboo
strips one inchin diameter. Are the strips pliable
when so thick? What will be the approximate
weight of such a carrying basket?

Page 95. The Dauré (another kind of basket) is
made of very thin bamboo sirips each about ‘‘one
inch in diameter ’'(Italics are ours). It is not clear
how a very thin strip can have a diameter of one
inch. Generally we mention the diameter of an
object when its transverse section is circular. The
authors perhaps here mean by diameter the breadth
of the elements.

Page 101. In describing the common arrow the
authors say that the shaft is “‘made of bamboo of a
diameter of two inches and a length of about one
and a half feet."’ Illustration of the arrow is given
in Plate VII, Fig. 18. We have never seen an
arrowshaft with a diameter of two inches. It is
further mentioned that ‘‘the fore-end of the shaft is
often decorated with two or three birds’ feathers.””
It is not the fore-end of the shaft where the feathers
are placed but rather the end opposite to it
which may be called the. aft-end {see illustration
given in Plate VII, Fig. 18.). Moreover, the birds’

NOTICES OF BOOKS 69

feathers are not mere decorations but are primarily
meant for keeping the arrow straight in course
of its flight.

(6) Page 108. The blade of the Khanta (digging imple-
ment) as described by the authors cannot have two
pointed edges but rather two pointed ends. It is
said to be “‘conical in shape and has four sides,
each about four inches in length” and “‘is about one
inch in diameter at the middle.’”? A cone cannot
have four sides nor a four-sided figure a diameter.

(7) Page 109. The two varieties of the so-called
harrow described by the authors and illustrated on
Plate IX have no tooth. Harrows are always
toothed. The implements described are perhaps
mere levellers.

The Didh and the Dhelki sections of the Kharids are
divided into totemic exogamous patrilineal clans. The
Dhelkis had eight original clans most of which have now
more than one subdivision. Of the Didh Kharia clans nine

are original and therest offshoots of these. The authors.

note the existence of rank among the original clans of both

the sections with right to preside over tribal councils
associated with particular clans of the superior rank. Some

of these clans have also the right to be served firstin social
feasts. In Assam also we find this trait among some of the
Kuki tribes. Unfortunately, the authors do not say any-
thing about the relation between the subdivisions of an
original clan in either section of the tribe.

Among the Hill Kharids clan organization is found in

Manbhum and Singbhum. In Mayurbhanj itis completely _

absent in certain villages while in others a debased form of

itis found (page 122). In the latter class of villages the ©

authors were told by different groups of informants from
diferent villages that they had one, two or six gotras of
totemic nature which were not exogamous. The authors
do not seem to have verified these assertions with the help
of genealogical tables. Mere assertions. of informants on

70 NOTICES OF BOOKS

such controversial topics are of no value unless they are
corroborated from other sources. In fact, the absence of
even a single genealogical table in a book of such magni-
tude is rather unfortunate. Genealogical method of
investigation has been accepted all over the anthropological
world as one of the best means of collecting data.

According to the authors, among the Didh and Dhelki
sections of the Kharias, “‘exogamous kinship group of the
patrilineal clan is the basis of the social organization”
(page 146). The patrilineal clan is not a kinship group.
Dr. Rivers set at rest the vague and indefinite connotations
of the terms kin and kinship in his Secial Organization
(Rivers, Social Organization, 1932, pp. 51-55) where he
defines kinship ‘‘as relationship which is determined, and
can be described, by means of genealogies.’’ ‘““According
to this definition, kinship differs from relationship or sibship
set up by membership of the moiety of clan, it being both
wider and narrower in its scope, according to the point of
view.”’

All the three sections of the Kharids have mainly the
classificatory type of relationship.

In all the three sections, each village has a headman and
a council of all the adult male members of the village. It is
their duty to look after the social and religious welfare of
the village. The headman of a Kharia village is also its
sacrificer or priest. A higher form of political organization
is found in the Parha Federation present in all the three
sections of the tribe. This is primarily charged with the
duty of maintaining tribal solidarity.

The religion of the Khariasis characterised by a belief
in and worship of the ancestor-spirits, the spirits of the hills
and jungles and the Supreme Deity who is alsothe creator
ofthe universe and ruler of men and other spirits. The
Supreme Deity is often identified with the Sun. Offerings
and sacrifices are made tothese deities and spirits and
prayers are also addressed to them. The officiant is some-
times the hereditary village priest and sometimes the
NOTICES OF BOOKS 71

housefather, Magic also occupies an important position in
their lives. .

It has been claimed that the “‘three sections of the tribe
represent three successive levels of primitive culture”
(Vol. I, Preface, p- II])—the Hill Kharias occupy the lowest,
the Dhelki the middle, and the Diidh section the highest
rung of the ladder. To us it appears that there is practi-
cally no difference of cultural level between the Dhelki and
Diidh sections in the essentials of culture. They have the
same type of material, social and religious traits. The
differences that are visible are only in minor details and are
not sufficient to place them on different culture-levels. On
the other hand, the position of the Hill Khirias raises doubts
in our mind. At present they mainly pursue food-gathering
activities though migratory hill cultivation (page 73) and
even plough cultivation (page 107) are sometimes found in
certain areas. If the last two traits aré proved to be
borrowed from their more advanced neighbours then they
may be safely spoken of as belonging toa lower level of
material culture. But if their sporadic occurrence be due to

degeneration brought about by environment we cannot |
agree with the conclusions of the authors. Moreover, in.

social and religious traits the Hill Kharias do not differ much
from the other two sections, at least notin the essential
points. The authors seem to have been unduly carried
away by their idea of three successive stages. A more
careful and sifting enquiry is necessary before we can
pronounce any judgment on this point. —

In spite of what we have said above, we congratulate the
authors for the wealth of detail which characterises this im-
portant contribution to Indian ethnography and we extend
our welcome to this and such other studies on the tribal
cultures of India. |

Ee CUD:

72 NOTICES OF BOOKS

Die Indogermanen und Germanenfrage:—Neue wege zu
ihrer Lésung. Wiener Beitrdge zur Kulturgeschichte und
Linguistik, Jahrgang IV (1936). Publication of the Institut
fiir Volkerkunde an der Universitat Wien. Edited by
Wilhelm Koppers. Verlag Anton Pustet, Salzburg—
Leipzig ; pp. 787.

The Ethnological Institute of Vienna University has
already done much useful work in the fields of linguistics,
prehistoric archaeology, and ethnology, which ought to be
better known in our country than they are at present. Under
the able guidance of the renowned ethnologist Dr. Wilhelm
Koppers, it published in the first volume (1930) of its
Beitrige some excellent articles of great importance not
only for ethnology but also for general linguistics. The
second volume was devoted exclusively to ethnology
Beitrige zur Methodik der Volkerkunde by Gaston Van
Bulck), and the third consisted of two contributions on
Sumatra by Edwin M. Loeb (History and People) and
Robert Heine-Geldern (Archaeology and Art). .Now the
same Institute has presented us with the fourth volume
of its Beitrdge—a magnificent collection of essays by A.
Nehring (Studien zur indogermanischen kultur und Urheimat,
pp. 7-230), W. von Brandenstein (Die Lebensformen der
Indogermanen, pp. 231-278), W. Koppers (Pferdeopjer und
Pjerdekult der Indogermanen, pp. 279-412), R. Bleichsteiner
(Rossweihe und Pferderennen im Totenkult der Kaukasischen
Volker, pp. 413-496), W. Amschler (Die altesten Funde des
Hauspferdes, pp. 479-516), V. G. Childe (The Antiquity of
Nordic Culture, pp.517-530),R. Pittioni (Die Uraltertumskunde
zur Frage der indogermanischen Urheimat, pp. 531-548), A,
Closs (Die Religion des Semnonenstammes, pp. 549-674), and
Alexander Slawik (Kultische Geheimbiinde der Japaner
und Germanen, pp. 675.764). Every one of these writers
has tried to solve here the problem of the original home of
the Indo-Europeans in his own way, and in this respect it
may be safely called the most important publication in the
field of Indo-European philology after the Hirt-Festschrift,

mi meee
NOTICES OF BOOKS 73

though, as their titles suggest most of the articles in the
present volume are concerned more with ethnology and
prehistoric archaeology than with linguistics proper. In the
Hirt-Festschrift, the ethnologists had made a valiant effort
to solve this problem which has engaged the attention of
linguists of every generation, most of the articles on the
subject there being distinctly characterised by a warm
sympathy for the theory of Kossinna to whom German and
Indo-European were synonymous terms. The present
volume marks the inevitable reaction against this tendency,
and the old hypothesis of the South Russian home of the
original Indo-Europeans has been re-asserted here by a past
master in the subject—A. Nehring—in the light of the
latest linguistic researches, supported in his conclusions by
eminent ethnologists like Koppers and Amschler, and
prehistoric archaeologists like Pittioni and Gordon Childe.

Already the editor of Hirt-Festschrift deplored that Indo-
European philology has lost its separate entity and homo-
geneity, for comparativists are no longer content with
comparisons only within this close body of languages. The
truth of this statement will be evident to everybody who
looks into Nehring’s opening article in which the very basic
words of Indo-European vocabulary, such as *g” dus, *eq”
wos, etc., are treated as loan-words, and I. E. bases are
connected with all the language groups from African Bantu
to Chinese, including Semitic, Ugro-Finnic, Altaic and.
Caucasian languages. The impression is irresistible that
the primitive I. E. vocabulary perhaps consisted. solely of
loan-words, and that, like the 1. E. race, the basic I. E.
language too is nothing but an imaginary construction!
This is mystifying indeed, but Nehring has dirven home his
points with such inexorable thoroughness that he would be
a bold man indeed who would dare to differ from him.
Another distinguishing feature of Nehring’s work is that
Comparative Philology has been brought in it into close
contact and collaboration with botany, zoology, prehistoric
archaeology and anthropology, though he. has. not indulged

10 , fe ee
74 NOTICES OF BOOKS

in ethnological speculation,—a wise omission, which his
collaborators however have tried to make good. Nowhere
has Nehring arbitrarily declared particular features of I. E.
culture to be “‘arctic’’ or ‘‘southern’”’ after the fashion of
these ethnologists. Nehring leaves open the question of
Altaic influence on |. E. culture—the favourite thesis of
Koppers—but admits that inner Asiatic elements are quite
unmistakable in it from a linguistic point of view which
might be partially due to Altaic influence. But much more
important in this respect is the particularly close relation
between Ugro-Finnic and Indo-European. This proves
that the original home of the Indo-Europeans must be
assigned somewhere in the proximity of the Uralic region.
Considering everything, it must have been situated to the
south of the Ugro-Finnic original home in middle Russia
between the Urals and the Caspian Sea and just to the
north of the cultural sphere of the Caucasian languages. This
is quite definite and easily explains also the unmistakable
Semitic and Caucasian influences on the original I.E. culture.
But as on the showing of Bleichsteiner the Caucasian
culture had once spread even to the Pamirs, the |. E.
original home might have extended somewhat farther to
the east and part of it might have been actually included
in geographical Asia. But Nehring is sceptical about this
further extension. He then draws upon prehistoric archaeo-
logy to further elucidate the problem and declares the
Ukranian Tripolje-culture to be the culture of the earliest
Indo-Europeans. As for the absolute dating of the same,
he points out that there can be no doubt to-day that
elements of [. E. culture can be traced already in Troy |
{c. 3000 B. C.), so that the peak-point of the original I. E.
civilisation before the dissolution of the tribes began must
have been reached at the end of the fourth millennium B.C.
at the latest. Regarding the various types of ceramic art
in prehistoric Europe and their connection with early I. E.
culture, Nehring shows a non-committal attitude: however
unfavourable might be the picture to the identification of

NOTICES OF BOOKS 75

the Schnurkeramik with the earliest 1 E. culture, it is all
the more favourable to the connection with the Tripolje-
culture (p. 61}. These conclusions are further strengthened
by a detailed and searching examination of all that is
known about I. E. cattle-breeding, agriculture, use of
metals, house-building, organisation of family, clan and
state, religion, etc. The last word of Comparative Philology
on all these points is to be found here. In anthropological
questions Nehring depends mainly on Eikstedt who also
favours the theory of a south Russian home for the primitive
Indo-Europeans.

Brandenstein in his article on the forms of life of the
primitive Indo-Europeans has shown that much can be
achieved in the field of Comparative Philology by what may
be called applied semasiology. His method is to trace the
changes of meaning undergone by the basic stems in the
various dialects, and to determine in this way the meaning
which attached to them originally, always keeping in mind
that meanings too are evolved ina definite chronological
order. Thus ‘‘cattle’? atone stage could and did signify

‘money’, but atno stage can “‘money’’ signify “cattle’’.

As this example shows, the guiding principle of the author
is surely sound and will undoubtedly produce more positive

results in future. But his method is weak. He depends |

on Walde-Pokorny not only for the bases but also for their
meanings.

In his ethnological stray on the horse-sacrifice and fees?
cult of the Indo-Europeans, Koppers gives a detailed
analysis of the horse-sacrifice among ancient Indians,
lranians, Slavs, Greeks, Romans, Celts and Germans, and
draws conclusions, mostly unwarranted in the opinion of the
present reviewer, which go to support the South-Russian
hypothesis of Nehring.. Amschler’s is a Zoological study
in which he has tried to ascertain the oldest finds of tame
horses. He concludes that the horse played avery minor
réle in the Tripolje-culture, and that the oldest finds in
northern Europe pointto a period about 2200 B.C. The

ee

16 NOTICES OF BOOKS

conclusion reached in Childe’s closely written article on
the antiquity of Nordic culture goes definitely against those
who would make of Germany the original home of the
Indo-Europeans “‘the Nordic neolithic culture began late
as compared with the British and Danubian and only when
the neolithic economy had been left behind in the East
Mediterranean and Hither Asia. The Nordic province,
which was still absorbing cultural impulses from its
neighbours, would then hardly seem a promising Urheimat
for the Indogermanen’’ (p. 529).—Essentially the sarne view
is also expressed by Pittioni, who declares: ‘“The problem
ofthe I. E. original home takes such a form that neither
the Nordic culture may be called the 1]. E. Ur-culture nor
its home may be declared the original ].E. home, but the
eastern region characterised by Kammkeramik. The north
gave only the finishing touch to the human waves coming
from the east” (p. 544). Alois Closs in his learned article
discusses various details of the religions of the ancient
Germanic tribes,—much in the fashion of Guntert in his
“Der arische Weltkénig’’.—In the concluding article
Alexander Slawik draws attention to various points of
similarity between Germanic and Japanese cult and
religion. It is not clear however, what conclusion the
author wishes to draw from these apparent similarities.

Altogether itis a volume rich in materials and sugges-
tions. Itis indispensable to every philologist on account
of Nehring’s magnificent dissertation. And | hope that the
other articles too will prove to be useful to all who are
intersted in ethnology.

BATAKRISHNA GHOSH
ae
AG
the

f

Extracts from the Annual Report of the
Greater India Society for the year 1936-37

GENERAL
With the year 1936-37 the Greater India Society

entered upon the tenth year of its existence. The
Society’s record during the year was, on the whole,
one of steady progress.

MANAGEMENT

The constitution of the Managing Committee remained
unchanged during the year. The  Joint-Secretary,
Dr. Kalidas Nag, however, was called away from the scene
of his labours to join the Congress of World-writers
held at Buenos Aires in September 1936, as also the staff
of the Honolulu University as the first Indian visiting
Professor for a period of six months (January-July 1937).
As in former years the important business of the: Com-
mittee was disposed of as the occasion arose by cir-

culation among the members. During the year the

Honorary Secretary continued to act as the Honorary
Editor of the Society’s Journal, in accordance with the
resolution of the Committee to that effect. The Journal
Committee remained the same as at the beginning of

the year.

OFFICE

The office-establishment was maintained on the eco-
nomic level of the previous years. Mr. P. K. Sen,
Chartered Accountant, again deserved the thanks of the
Committee by acting as Honorary Auditor of the Society's
accounts for the second year in succession.

78 ANNUAL REPORT OF THE GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

MEMBERS & SUBSCRIBERS

The number of members on the Society's roll on the
3lst March 1937 remained the same as in the corres-
ponding period of the previous year. The number of
subscribers to the Society’s Journal remained almost at
the same level. The Committee takes this opportunity
to convey its heartfelt thanks to the Governments of
Baroda, Mysore, Travancore and Gwalior and the Archaeo-
logical Survey of India with its diferent provincial circles as
well as various Provincial Governments and the authorities
of several Indian universities and colleges for the continued
patronage extended to the Society’s fournal. No fresh
Honorary Member of the Society was elected in place of the
late-lamented Dr. E. Obermiller whose loss was mourned by
the Committee last year.

FINANCE

The closing balance of the Society’s accounts on the
31 March 1937 was Rs. 844-0-8 as compared with Rs. 636-
13-5 which was the figure for the previous year and
Rs. 478-5.3 the figure for the year immediately preced-
ing. This favourable state of the finances is partly due to
an accident, as Dr. Tucci’s work, Tibetan Pilgrims in the
Swat Valley which was one of the Society’s commit
ments, was still in the Press by the end of the year.
On the receipt side the Committee has to acknowledge
with grateful thanks the donations of Rs. 500/- from the
National Council of Education, Bengal, and the donation of
Rs. 100/- each from Sir P. C. Ray, the respected President
of the Society, and Dr. Narendra Nath Law, one of its
esteemed members. Among other items, receipts under
the head “‘Sale proceeds of books and pamphlets’’ showed
an appreciable decrease as compared with the pre-
vious year, the figures being Rs. 415-12-6 (1936-37), and
Rs. 543-8-9 (1935-36). This item, however, compares favour-
ably with the figure for 1934-35, viz., Rs. 372-13-0. The

|

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE GREATER INDIA SOCIETY 79

receipts from subscriptions showed a slight decline being
Rs. 18]1-3-0 as compared with 229-13-0 for 1935-36 and
Rs. 238-1-0 for 1934-35. On the expenditure side the
publication expenses as usual have been the heaviest item,
accounting for Rs. 740-10-0. With this may be compared
the figures for previous years, viz., Rs. 648-8-0 (1935-36)
and Rs. 925-4-9 (1934-35). Of the figure for 1936-37 no less
than Rs. 677-5-6 was accounted for by the cost of
publication of the two issues of the Journal. Under the head
‘‘Postal Charges’’ there was a slight increase in the ex-
penditure, Rs. 118-13-3 as compared with Rs. 111-2-3 for
1935-36. It is, however, lower than the figure for 1934-35,
viz, 150-13-6. A similarly slight increase may be noticed
under the head ‘‘Allowance to Staff,’’ the figure being
Rs. 154-7-0 in place of Rs. 134-2-0 for the previous year.
This increase, however, is more apparent than real as the
figures include the Proof-reader’s charges for the Journal.
On the other hand, the charge under the head ‘‘Purchase
of Books’? shows a marked decline being Rs. 86-6-0 in
place of Rs. 200-6-0 of the preceding year.

LECTURES

During the year under notice 11 popular lectures were
delivered under the auspices of the Greater India Society
and in co-operation with the National Council of Educa-
tion, Bengal. As in the preceding — years the lectures
covered a relatively wide range of topics. This may be
shown from the subjoined list of subjects of the lectures
to which is added the’ name of the lecturers in each
case: Indus Civilisation and its Cultural Characteristics by
Mr. Kunja Govinda Goswami, Ancient Bengal (2 lectures) by
Mr. S. K. Saraswati, Aryan Invasion of India (2 lectures) by
Dr. Batakrishna Ghosh, Annam, Tonkin & Siam (3 lectures)
by Swami Sadananda, Growth of Western Ideas about India
(H. Goetz), Burma (2. lectures) by Prof. Suniti Kumar
Chatterji. The Committee conveys its sincere thanks to all

30 ANNUAL REPORT OF THE GREATER INDIA SCCIETY

these gentlemen for their valued co-operation. Thanks are
also due to the authorities of the National Council of
Education, Bengal, for meeting as in former years the
charges for the lectures.

PUBLICATIONS

Two issues of the Journal (Vol. Hl, Nos. 1 and 2)
appeared during the year, while the subsequent issue
(Vol. IV, No. 1) appeared just in the following April.
Of these the first issue which was brought out as
a Sylvain Lévi Memorial Number besides receiving a
prefatory notice from Dr. Tagore, the Purodh@ of the
Society, and an opening pragasti from Professor Vidhu-
shekhara Bhattacharya, was enriched with original contri-
butions from a number of Indian and foreign scholars,
which swelled its size to the unusual number of 134
pages. The Committee feels that the Journal, by setting
before itself a high scientific standard and by enlisting
the co-operation of Indian as well as foreign scholars
in its chosen field, is fulfilling a distinct need for the
cause of Greater Indian research. A gratifying testimony
to this effect is furnished by the growing response of
scholars and scholarly periodicals in and outside India
to the Society’s call for co-operation. In this connection
the Committee recalls with interest the invitation extend-
ed by the Eighth International Congress of Historical
Sciences for representation of the Society at its forth-
coming session at Zurich in August-September, 1938.

Turning to other items the publication of Dr. Tucci’s
long-awaited work, Tibetan Pilgrims in the Swat Valley
was taken in hand during the course of the year. Mr.
Himansu Bhusan Sarkar continued his preparation of the
English translation of Dr. Krom’s Hindoe-/avaansche
Geschiedenis which is another of the Society’s announce-
ments,

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE GREATER INDIA SOCIETY 81

LIBRARY

During the year the Society’s collection of books,
periodicals, pamphlets, etc. continued to receive a constant
stream of additions obtained by way of exchange with its
Journal or for purpose of review therein. The collection
continued to be housed in a room of the Asutosh
Building of the Calcutta University which was generously
placed at the disposal of the Society last year by the
Vice-Chancellor, Mr. Syamaprasad Mookerjee, and his
colleagues on the Post-Graduate Executive Committee.
The works, as they came in, were duly entered in the
Society’s register of which two copies were kept.

CONCLUSION

In concluding this brief review of working of the
Society for the last year, the Committee cannot but
offer its most grateful thanks to those friends and well-

wishers who have helped it in various ways. Mention —

had been made elsewhere of the generous donations of
the National Council of Education, Bengal, and of Sir P. C.
Ray and Dr. Narendra Nath Law. Acknowledgment has
also been made of the kind services of Mr. P. K. Sen,
Hony. Auditor of the Society’s accounts. The Committee
has also to thank Mr. Ramananda Chatterji, Editor of The
Medern Review and Dr. Narendra Nath Law, Editor of
The Jndian Historical Quarterly for free advertisements
of the Society’s publications in their well-known periodi-
cals. To Dr. Law the Committee owes a further debt of
gratitude for allowing a substantial discount on the
printing charges incurred by the Society for its Journal.
The Committee however feels that still more strenuous
efforts should be made with a view to setting the

Society firmly on its feet. Above all, recruits are needed

for shouldering the growing responsibility of running the
Society’s Journal and of contributing to its outer publica-
i aa |
82 ANNUAL REPORT OF THE GREATER INDIA SOCIETY

tions. It is only thus that India will fulfl her duty of
elucidating Greater Indian culture in a manner befitting her
heritage. The Committee appeals to every educated son
and daughter of India to help it in this noble task and it
earnestly trusts that its appeal will not go in vain.

The Ninth Allt-india Oriental Conference.

The ninth session of the All-India Oriental Conference
was held at Trivandrum under the distinguished patronage
of H. H. the Maharaja of Travancore on three successive
days, 20th to 22nd December, 1937. It was attended by an
exceptionally large number of delegates and visitors, of
which some idea may be formed from the fact that no less
than 90 institutions both in and outside India were-
represented therein. It is a gratifying sign of the times that
Greater India received a due share of attention in the
composition of the Conference, for not only was it possible
for the Greater India Society to senda fairly large number
of delegates to the Conference but the notable delegates
from abroad included Dr. W.F. Stutterheim, Director of
Archaeology, Netherlands India. The session was opened
in the presence of a distinguished gathering at the beauti-
ful Town Jubilee Hall on the afternoon of the 20th
December, when after the chanting of melodious Sanskrit |
verses and delivery of the Welcome address of the Chairman
of the Reception Committee, His Highness the Maharaja
addressed the audience in a felicitous speech which was
much appreciated. This was followed by the learned
address of Dr. F. W. Thomas whose speech was remark-
able alike for the luminous survey of the existing state of
Indological studies and for sage suggestions for future
guidance. The successive days were devoted to meetings
of the different sections of the Conference of which there
were as many as thirteen this year. These comprised
Vedic, Iranian, Islamic, Classical Sanskrit, Philosophy,
Ardha-Magadhi, Pali and Prakrit, History, Archaeology,
Ethnology, Fine Arts, Kerala Art and Culture, Technical
Sciences, Philology, Malayalam and other South Indian lan-
guages. In the Archaeology section the chief centre of inter-
est was an exhibition of prehistoric and other antiquities

84 THE NINTH ALL-INDIA ORIENTAL CONFERENCE

from Maski arranged by Mr. Ghulam Yazdani, the worthy
Director of Archaeology in the Nizam’s dominions. Greater
India was worthily represented by Dr. Stutterheim whose
paper on the Cultural Relations between South India and
Java provoked a very interesting discussion and whose
lantern lecture on the Development of Indian Art in fava
roused a wide interest. Among other notable functions
may be mentioned the lantern lecture of Rao Bahadur
K.N. Dikshit on the Indus Valley Civilisation and of Dr.
James Cousens on the Post-mural Ajenia Paintings. For
the rest Drs. Suniti Kumar Chatterjee and U.N. Ghoshal
and Mr. Jitendra Nath Banerjee among the delegates of
the Greater India Society read papers at the different
sectional meetings. A paper was also contributed by Mr.
Banerjee to the meeting of the Numismatic Society of India
which held its annual session simultaneously with the
Oriental Conference. The Honorary Secretary took the
opportunity to come into personal contact with Dr.
Stutterheim and discuss with him plans for a closer co-
Operation between the Greater India Society and the
Archaeological Department of Netherlands India. Itis to
be hoped that this will result in increasing the share of the
Society’s usefulness in the near future. The closing
function of the Conference was a brilliant address from
Sir C.P. Ramaswamy Aiyar, the Dewan of the State,
followed by an interesting speech from the President. The
busy days of the Conference were rendered very enjoyable
to the assembled guests by a round of entertainments and
festivities including a Garden party given by His Highness
the Maharaja and a Dinner party at the residence
of Mr. F. H. Skrine, Resident of the Madras States.
Visits were also arranged to the notable institutions of
the City, such as the State Museum andits unique Java-Bali
Annexe, itself the fruit of Their Highness’s recent visit to
Indonesia. Very enjoyable trips were also arranged to the
historic and picturesque sites of the State, such as Padma-
nabhapuram (the old Capital with its wonderful medieval
THE NINTH ALL-INDIA ORIENTAL CONFERENCE 85

_fresco-paintings) and the majestic Cape Comorin. Al-

together the session was a great success, for which our best
thanks are due not merely to Their Highnesses the
Maharaja of Travancore and the Maharani Setu Parvati Bai
and the Dewan Sir C. P. Ramaswamy Ajyar, but also to
the members of the Reception Committee including above

all Mr. R. V. Poduval, the Local Secretary.

Reception to Dr, F. W. Thomas, Dr. H. J.
Fleure and Dr, A. BD, Mead.

At the beginning of January 1938 the Indian Science
Congress Association held its 25th (Silver Jubilee? session in
Caleutta in collaboration with the British Agsociation for the
Advancement of Science. The opportunity was taken by the
Managing Committee of the Greater India Society to organise
a reception in honour of two of the distinguished overseas
delegates, namely, Dr. F. W. Thomas and Dr. H. J. Fleure,
as well as of Dr. A, D. Mead, Professor of Biology at the
Brown University, U.S.A., who happened to be in Calcutta
on the occasion. The pleasant function took place at the
Mahabodhi Hall, College Square, on the 10th January 1938
at 6 p.m. and was attended by a fairly large number of
persons. At the outset the distinguished guests were wel-
comed with suitable speeches by Drs. U.N. Ghoshal, S. K.
Chatterjee, K. D. Nag and Pandit V. Bhattacharyya. Dr.
Ghoshal welcomed Drs. Thomas and Fleure as representa-
tives of British culture in the two important fields of Indo-
logy and Geography. Fle further eulogized the services of
Dr. Thomas to the cause of Indian learning and the genial
‘hospitality extended by him in his English home to Indian
students visiting Europe. He concluded by recalling how
Drs. Thomas and Fleure had just watched and blessed
India’s coming of age in the branch of Science. Pandit
Bhattacharyya spoke of the high ideas of Buddhism which
explained its phenomenal progress outside India, while Dr.
Chatterjee spoke warmly of Dr. Thomas's kind interest in
his studies while he was in Europe and Dr. Nag recalled his
pleasant association with Dr. Thomas in England and Dr.
Mead at the University of Honolulu. Replying to these
addresses Dr. Thomas said that the Greater India Society
was evidently animated by the same spirit of karund and
maitri that was characteristic of Buddhism. In ancient times

RECEPTION 87

the spread of Buddhism was due to individual enterprise of
zealous missionaries. This kind of enterprise, continued
the speaker, has lasted down to our own times——witness the
Gujerati tombs of two or three centuries ago recently
discovered at Uganda and the remains of Hindu culture at
Baku. It may confidently be predicted that the same
spirit of individual enterprise will continue in future for
trade as well as for religious and cultural propaganda.
Professor Fleure in course of his reply said that he was
deeply impressed with the personality and teachings of
Buddha. In this connection he pointed to the remarkable
fact that fundamental, ethical and philosophical movements
took place within a few centuries of each other in Ancient
China, India and Judea. He concluded by saying that the
old message of the East was now wanted in the West which
was machine-ridden. Prof. Mead, after highly compli-
menting Dr. Nag on his work as visiting Professor at the
Honolulu University, observed that New World stood as
much in need of India’s ancient culture as the Old.

Notes of the last half-year.
On the 23rd November 1937 Sir Jagadish Chandra Bose,

the world-renowned scientist, passed away suddenly at
Giridih in the Hazaribagh District of Bihar. In common
with numerous learned institutions both in and outside
this country the Greater India Society mourned the death of
India’s illustrious son whom it was proud to reckon in its list
of patrons. The Society will ever remember with gratitude
his services during the infancy of its existence.

The Managing Committee of the Greater India Society
is gratified to find signs of growing appreciation of its acti-
vities from the enlightened public of Bengal. In January
last Dr. Bimala Churn Law, the well-known Buddhist
scholar and patron of Indological studies in this city, earned
the grateful thanks of the Committee by his generous att of
Rs. 500/- only in wea of the Society.

88 NOTES

In the last issue of the J.G.1.S. (Vol. iv, no. 2) was
published a paper entitled A new Inscription from Fu-nan
from the pen of Dr. G. Geedés. In the accompanying text
(p. 120) ya[h*] in the first line should be read as ya+ and
Jayavarmmana in the fifteenth line should be read as
Jayavarmmana x , making foot-note no. 14 superfluous.

cat

BIBLIOGRAPHY

China

Sirén, Ozvald—Eine fiihrende Chinesische Bildhauerschule
(Ost. Zeit., 13 Jaarg., 3/4 heft).

Thomas, F. W.—A Buddhist Chinese Text in Brahmi Script
(ZDMG., Bd. 1, heft 1)

Indo-China

Dupont, Pierre—L’ art du Kulen et less débuts de la statuaire
angkorienne (BEFEO., t. XXXVIIL, Fasc. 2)

Martini, Fran¢ois—Dasa-bodhisatta-U ddesa, texte Pali Publié
avec une traduction et un index grammatical ([bid.)

Coral-Rémusat, Gilberte de—Animaux fantastiques de

? Indo-Chine de I’ Insulinde et de la Chine (Ibid.)

indonesia

Bateson, G.—An old temple and a new myth (Djawa. 17
Jaarg., afl. 5 en 6)

Belo, Jane—Balinese Children’s drawing (Ibid.)

Goris, R.—De Poera Besakih, Bali’s Rijksternpel (Ibid.)
The Balinese Medical literature (Ibid.)

Grader, C. J.—Dorpsbestuuar en tempelbeheer op Noesa
Penida ({bid.)

Hunger, F. W. T.—Einige aanteekeningen over de Noord-
Balische Bali-aga (Ibid.) |

Kaaden, W. F, van der—Beschrijving van de Poeri Agoeng
te Gianjar (Ibid.) |

Mc Phee, Colin—Angkloeng gamelans in Bali (Ibid.)

Moens, J. L.—Srivijaya, Yava en Kataha (Tijds. Indische
Tal- Land-en Volk. deel LXXVII, afl. 3)

Naerssen, F. H.—Een Hindubalineesche Oorkonde gevonden ©

in Oost-Java (Ibid., afl. 4)
Twee koperen oorkonden van Balitung in Het Kol. Inst. te
Amsterdam (Ibid.)

12 : ~

90 BIBLIOGRAPHY

Neuhas, Hans—Barong (Djawa, 17 Jaarg., No. 5 en 6)
Sangijang-bumbung (Ibid.)

- Noosten, H. H., & G.H. R- von Koenigswald—Maskers en
Ziekten op Java en Bali (Ibid.)

Sarkar, Himansu Bhusan—-The Cultura! Contact beiween
Java and Bengal UHQ.., Vol. XI], No. 4)

Spies, W. & R. Goris—Overzicht van dans en tooneel in
Bali (Diawa, op. cit.)

Stutterheim, W. F.—De Archeclegische Verzameling Lijst
van aanwinsten (Jaarboek van Kon. Bat. Genootschap
van Kunsten en Wetenschappen, IV, 1937)

De Oudheden Collectie van Z. H. Mangkoenagoro te
Soerakarta (Diawa, 17 Jaarg., No- | en 2)
- De Culture van Bali (Ibid., No. 5 en 6)
Een inscriptie van Lombok (Ibid.)
Oudheidkundige aanteekeningen (Ibid.)
Malay Peninsula

Archer, Raymond LeRoy—Muhammadan Mysticism in
Sumatra (Journal of the Malay Branch RAS., Vol. XV,
Pr. I)

. Braddell, Roland—An Introduction to the study of the An-

cient times in the Malay Peninsula (Ibid., Vol. XV, Pr.I)

-- Callenfels, P. V. van—The Founder of Malacca {{bid., Vol.

XV, Pe. ID

Wilkinson, R. J.—Further notes upon a study of Ancient
Times in the Malay Peninsula (Ibid.)

Winstedt, R. O.—Mr. R. Braddell’s Ancient Times {{bid.,
Vol. XV, Pe. HD

Persia

Thieme, Paul—Uber Einige Persische worter in Sanskrit
(ZDMG.., Bd. 1, heft 1)
Miscellaneous

Hevesey, Gillaume de—Noms ouraliens d'animaux dans

l Inde (Journal Asiatique t. CCXXIX, Jan-Mars 1937)
BIBLIOGRAPHY oI

. Additions to the Society's Library

The Greater India Society acknowledges with thanks
the receipt of the following books, periodicals, pamph-
lets, etc. during the last six months.

Periodicals

Adyar Library Bulletin (Brahma-Vidya) Vol. 1, Part 3, Vol.

Il, pt. 1, Madras 1937-58.

Annals of Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute Vol. XVIII
pt. IV, Vol. XEX, pt. 1, Poona 1937.

Bijdragen tot de Taal-Lande-en Volk. Nederlandsch Indié,
deel 95, ’s—Gravenhage 1937.

Buddha-Prabha, Vol. 5, No. 3; Vol. 6, No. 1, Bombay
1937-38,

Bulletin of the Colonial Institute of Amsterdam,Vol. 1; No. |
& 2, Amsterdam 1938. |

Bulletin of the School of Oriental Studies, Vol. IX, pt. 2,
London 1938.

Djdwd, 17 Jaarg, No. 5 & 6; 18 Jaarg, No. 1-2, Jogjakarta
1937-38. |

Indian Historical Quarterly Vol. X11, No. 4, Calcutta 1937.

Journal of the Annamalai University, Vol. VI, No. 1, Anna-
malainagar 1937.

Journal of Indian History, Vol. XVI, pt. 3, Madras 1937.

Journal of Malay Branch R.A. S. Vol. XV, pts. 2 & 3,
Singapore 1937. |

Ostasiatische Zeitschrift, 13 Jaarg. 3/4 heft, Berlin 1937.

Quarterly Journal of the Mythic Society, Vol, XXVIIL, No.

2 & 3, Bangalore City 1937-38.
Tijdschrift Voor Indische Taal, Lande-en Volkenkunde,
deel LXXXVII, afl. 1. Batavia 1938.

Books, Pamphlets, etc.

Aiyappan, A, Social and Physical Anthropology oj the
Nayadis of Malabar, Madras 1937
Alexéiev, Basile, La Littérature Chinoise, Paris 1937
92 BIBLIOGRAPHY

Braddell, Roland, An introduction to the study of Ancient
Times in the Malay Peninsula, Singapore 1937

Coedés, G., Inscriptions du Cambodge, Hanoi 1937

Family of Nations (Carnegie Endowment jor International
Peace), New York 1937

Gonda, J., Aanteekeningen bij het Oud-Javaansche
Bhismaparwa, Bandoeng 1937

Kunst, J.. The Music of Java, Amsterdam 1937

Law, B. C., Concepts of Buddhism, Amsterdam 1937

New Catalogus Catalogorum (Skt. and allied works), Ist
Fasc., Madras 1937

Parks, H. C.., Hindésiani Simplified, London 1937

Sadananda, Swami, Kamboja {in Bengali), Caleutta 1937

Steinhart, W.L., Niassche Teksten, Bandoeng 1937

Takées, Zoltan de, A Preliminary Report on a Far-Eastern
Journey, Budapest 1937

Wales, H. G., Towards Angkor, London 1937

Zes en Twintigste Jaarverslag (Kon. Vereeniging Kol. Inst.),
Amsterdam 1936

THE JOURNAL

GREATER INDIA SOCIETY
VoL. V duLy,: 1958 No. a

Contributions from the Mahavamsa to our
knowledge of the Mediaeval Culture

of Ceylon.
By Dr. WILHELM GEIGER

( Continued from J.G.1S., Vol. V, No. I.)
V
SOCIAL ORGANISATION

10. Racial and Social Differences within the
Population of Ceylon.

A, Arya and Dravida

58. The population of Ceylon was never so homoge-
neous as that of Northern India which had become such in
the course of their historical development. There the Aryan
immigrants who had come from the: North-West gradually
mixed with the original non-Aryan population of the
country and finally absorbed it, so that a new race ‘came
into existence which we may call the Indo-Aryan race. It
was spread all over the cultivated area of the country but
it did not come into contact with people of a different race
except perhaps in some frontier districts where the Indo-:
Aryans met with aboriginal hill- and forest- tribes.

The development turned out differently in Ceylon.
Here there was ever a strong antagonism between the Aryan
4 WILHELM GEIGER

and Drdvidian races. This antagonism made itself more
or less conspicuous in the different periods of Sinhalese
history, but it was never entirely absent owing to the fact
that the Aryans were the older stratum of colonists and
the Damilas came over into the island as later immigrants,
often also as foes and conquerors. Nevertheless the Sinha-
lese people cannot be called a pure Aryan race. From the
beginning of the colonisation a racial mixture surely took
place in Ceylon on the one side with the aboriginal inhabti-
tants of the island, on the other side with the Dravidas
of Southern India.

The first Aryan immigrants probably came to Ceylon
from North-Western India in the 5th century B.C. The
name or rather surname of their leader is called in the
tradition Vijaya, ‘the conqueror’, They met in Ceylon with
a population of unknown race that was certainly neither
Aryan nor Dravidian, but rather related te the uncultivated
tribes of Southern India. This clearly appears from
the fact that they are called Yakkha (Sk. Yaksa) in the
tradition. Another name seems to have been Sabara
(Sk. Sabara), preserved in the modern name of the pro-
vince Sabaragamuva. Both these names are used to
denote barbarous tribes living in the mountains and forests.
Often demoniac qualities are ascribed to them. Sinhalese
Yaké simply means ‘devil.’

It is very probable that the Aryan colonists often con-
tracted sexual relations with aboriginal women. This seems
to be alluded to by the legend told in the Mahavamsa 7.9
sg. of Vijaya’s marriage with the Yakkhini Kuveni or Kuva-
nnd. According to the legend, she bore a son and a
daughter. When afterwards she was put away by her
husband and returned to the Yakkhas, she was killed by
them, but her children fed to Malaya into the wild moun-
tainous region of Central Ceylon. There they grew up and
the elder brother took the younger sister for his wife and
they became the ancestors of the Pulindas. The word
pulinda too is a designation for uncultivated tribes in India,
CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA — 95

here in Ceylon perhaps for a mixed race believed to have

sprung from the intermarriage of the first Aryan colonists —
with aboriginal women. Such may perhaps be the actual

kernel of the Vijaya-Kuveni legend.

59, But we also learn from the chronicle (Mhvs. 7.48
sq.) that messengers were sent by Vijaya to Madhura, the
capital of the Dravidian Pandu kingdom, in order to woo
a daughter of the king for himself and also other girls as
wives for his companions, and we are told that they came
to the island and together with them craftsmen and mem-
bers of the various guilds. This is an interesting notice,
and it is not improbable that there is some truth in it. For
the new colony was no doubt in want of such helpers and it
is easy to understand that they were fetched from Southern
India which geographically was the nearest cultivated
country. Thus a strong infusion of Dravidian blood into
the Aryan population of Ceylon must have taken place in
the first period of its colonisation.

We know, however, that before long the Aryan element
in Ceylon was strengthened by immigrants coming from
North-Eastern India. According to tradition, the second |
ruler of Ceylon, Vijaya’s successor, was the descendant of a >
Kalinga dynasty. From that time onwards an uninterrup-
ted, nay, continually increasing intercourse appears to have
existed between Bengal, Magadha, Orissa on the one side
and Ceylon on the other side. In the third century B.C. the
Buddhist doctrine was preached in Ceylon. The island
became the home of orthodox Buddhism and it has remain-
ed so up to the present time.

The relations with the Damilas were very often hostile.
The Sinhalese history (see above 30, J.G.IS. Ill, p. 155 sq.)
is a long series of bloody wars with Pandian (Mhvs. 50.12
sq.) and chiefly with Cola armies who invaded Ceylon in
order to subjugate the island and its inhabitants. The
Northern provinces were often occupied by the foe for many
years, whilst the faithful adherents of the national dynasty
found refuge in the less accessible province of Rohana.

96 WILHELM GEIGER

They always finally succeeded in restoring the indepen-
dence of the Sinhalese kingdom.

We must also point to the fact that in Ceylon often when
there were struggles for the throne, one of the candidates
fled to Southern India, and having collected troops there,
came back to the island and tried to win the kingdom with
their help. Thus the custom arose in Ceylon, probably since
the seventh century, of enlisting Dravidian mercenaries,
Damilas, Keralas and Kannatas in the Sinhalese army.
Their number seems to have been even greater than that
of the less warlike Sinhalese. The Dravidian soldiery fre-
quently caused serious disturbances. They revolted against
their lord, chiefly when they were not sufficiently paid,
plundered the country and seized the property of the
peace-loving inhabitants (44, 134; 45.12 sq.; 54, 66). The
worst time in this respect was the thirteenth century when,
after the reign of the usurper Magha, many Damila merce-
naries were dwelling as they pleased in the villages and
single houses they had forcibly occupied. It was king
Vijayabahu III, 1232-36, who drove them out and freed at
least the province of May&rattha from those outrageous
soldiers (81.14). Nevertheless they continued to be a pub-
lic calamity under his successor Parakkamabahu I], commit-
ting all sorts of violent deeds, until. they were finally
overthrown in a dreadful battle fought near the Kalavapi
tank and had to sacrifice their lives and all their accumula-
ted treasures to the Sihala warriors (83,15-34).

60. Evenin times of peace Damilas constantly came
over to Ceylon where they earned their livelihood as
merchants or artisans or perhaps as field-labourers. That
atthe end of the eighth century Damilas formed a constitu-
entelement of the population of Ceylon appears froma
notice in Mhvs. 48. 145. There we are told how King
Mahinda II presented bulls to lame people, no doubt
for their conveyance. But if they were Damilas, he

gave them horses, as they would not take cattle for that
purpose,

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 97

When at the time of Sena L, 831-51, the Pandu king
invaded Ceylon, all the Damilas who dwelled scattered
here and there, went over to his side and he thereby gained
great power (50.15). From another passage ( 66. 133 )
we learn that in the twelfth century many Damilas were
living in Ceylon in Gajabahu’s kingdom. Damilas were
also often in a prominent position at the royal court. Two
of the paramours of Queen Anula, 12-16 A. C., were
Damilas (34. 19. 24 sq.); one of them, Vatuka, was
nagaravaddhaki, i. e. chief of the guild of carpenters and
masons (cf, R. Fick, Social Organisation in North-East India
in Buddha's Time, translated by S. Maitra, pp. 283-4); the
other, Niliya, even purohita-brahmana (vide above 34,
J.G.1.S. 1V, 1937, p. 81 sq.). The Damila Potthakuttha in
the service of King Aggabodhi IV., 658-74, was a person
of great influence at court. After Aggabodhi’s death he

enthroned two successive puppet-rulers, whilst he himself

administered the kingdom (46. 39 sq.). If my correction
of the corrupt passage 49.24 is correct, there existed in
Ceylon even a peculiar Damila group of priests, Damila
Bhikkhusamgha.

In the harem of the Sinhalese kings there were also
Damila women. Sotthisena, the son of King Mahanama,
was sprung from such a woman. He ascended the throne
in the year 431, after his father’s death, but was killed by
Samgh&a, the daughter of Mahanama and: his queen, i. e.
of an equal mother ( 38. 1-2). Vijayabahu I., 1059-1114,
wedded his younger sister Mitta to Panduraja (59.41 ).
The name shows thatthe husband was an offspring of the

royal family of the Pandu kingdom. Manabharana was —

the son of Pandurdja and Mitta, and Manabharana’s son

was Parakkamabahu the Great, who therefore on his |

grandfather’s side had Dravidian blood in his veins.

Such marriages which were the issue of political
considerations and became very frequent in the last
centuries of the Sinhalese Kingdom (cf. 9, J.G.I.S. II, 1935,
p- 100), did net. much concern the Sinhalese people in
98 WILHELM GEIGER

general. Nevertheless it is obvious that owing to the
continual influx of Damilas, both soldiers and non-soldiers,
the Sinhalese must have been considerably influenced by
the Dravidian race not only culturally, but also physically
and mentally. But a complete amalgamation of the two
races never took place in Ceylon. The Damilas were
always considered as foreigners, even in times of peace,
and the Sinhalese never lost the consciousness of their
Aryan descent and of their right of political independence.
They even preserved their old Aryan language in spite of
the geographical isolation. The dialect which the first
colonists spoke was probably cognate to that in which the
Western and North-Western inscriptions of Asoka are
composed. In Ceylon it was influenced and enriched by
dialects of Aryan immigrants who came from North-Eastern
India, from Bengal, Bihar and Orissa, so that it became a
mixed dialect which in the sequel developed on the same
lines with all the Indo-Aryan vernaculars. A peculiar
influence of Tamil was certainly not lacking, but it was
not too strong. Itisa remarkable fact that in the classical
literature Tamil loan-words are rare in cormparison with
these borrowed from Paliand chiefly from Sanskrit. This
clearly shows that the educated Sinhalese earnestly strove
to emphasise the Aryan character of their language.

At the present time one-third (in round numbers) of the
population of Ceylon consists of Tamils. The percentage
may have been nearly the same perhaps a little less, also
during the medizeval period.

B. Classification of the people

61. Frequently in the Mahavamsa the whole population
of Ceylon is divided into loka, ‘world’ i.e, ‘lay-congregation’
and sdsana ‘church’, ‘clergy’, ‘priesthood’, often joined
together in the compound lokasdsena. Identical with this
division is that into ‘gihind.” ‘laymen’ and priests (Mhvs. 48.
23) and that into vagnd ‘castes’ and assamd ‘hermitages'
CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 99

(72. 145). Protecting and furthering of world and church
was the first duty of a pious king (cf. 52-81; 68.2 ; 69.4
&e &c.).

We easily understand that divison if we consider the
dominant position of Buddhism in the island. According to
its doctrine, perfect Buddhists are only those who having
abandoned the worldly life have entered the Order and are
striving for salvation. The laymen are but their helpers
and protectors, acquiring thereby the merit (pufifia) which
warrants them a better future existence in the stream of
transmigration. For those who believe in that doctrine
mankind is divided into two large groups viz. priests or
monks on the one side, and on the other side laymen who
belong to the worldly community and are occupied with
worldly tasks.

The word sdsana, it is true, is generally used in Pali to
denote the Buddhist religion and the Buddhist Order, the
samgha. But when it is put in contrast to loka, it must
certainly have a wider sense and include the Brahmanical
clergy together with the Buddhist bhikkhus. It is obvious
that the Brahmana priests cannot be considered as loka.
We know that they played an important part at court and
were by no means disregarded by the people in Ceylon
(vide 33, 34; J.G.LS. IV. 1937, p. 81 sq.); we learn this from
the Mahavamsa itself, though the chronicle was compiled
by Buddhist priests.

The ‘priesthood’ itself was therefore bipartite, consist~-
ing of samand and brahmana. That samana in this context
means not an ascetic in general, but simply ‘a Buddhist’
priest is confirmed by the fact that we also meet with the
twain bhikkhavo brahmana (50.5.)

62. The foremost social difference was that between
freemen and slaves (dasa). Slavery was a common institu-
tion in India up to the modern times, and the Indian law-
books, the Kautaliya Arthaégastra included, contain minute -
details concerning it. Four classes of slaves are distinguish-
ed in the Vinaya, ed. Oldenberg IV, 224°*, seven in Manu-

100 WILHELM GEIGER

smrti VIII, 415, and fifteen in the Naradasmrti (Breloer,
Kautaliya-Studien ll, p. 30 sq.). It is interesting that in the
Nitinighanduva, a collection of customary laws in Ceylon,
compiled about the year 1818 under British auspices (cf.
Jolly, Hindu Law and Custom, translated by B. K. Ghosh,
p. 95) the classification is the same as in the Vinaya: the
Grst two classes are those who are born in the house
(aniojata) or bought for money (dhanakkita) the third, and
fourth apparently those made prisoners in war (kamara)
and carried of by force (anita).

Itis easy to understand that we are unable exactly to
trace this distinction in the chronicle, though it may have
existed in mediseval Ceylon as well as in India. The first
slaves were no doubt Damilas taken prisoners in war. King
Silameghavanna, 617-627, after having beaten the Damilas
who had invaded the island in order to conquer the kingdom
for Sirindga, captured those who remained over from
slaughter, subjected them to all kinds of humiliation and
made them slaves (40.70-73).

Common to all Dasas was the entire want of personal
freedom. They were part of their lord’s property in the
same sense as money; fields and cattle. For their livelihood
they were given a patch of land, called divel in Sinhalese
(H.W. Codrington, Ancient Land Tenure and Revenue in
Ceylon, p. 18). In the houses of rich people, chiefly in the
royal household, the number of slaves seems to have been
very great. They could be given away to other people, if
their lord liked todo so. Silimeghavanna distributed the
Damila slaves he had made (see above) here and there to
monasteries. Aggabodhi IV, 658-74, placed slaves at the
disposal of the Bhikkhu community wherever they were
wanted (46.10), and the Damila Potthakuttha who was
serving the same king, having erected a splendid building in
some monastery, could also assign it villages together with
slaves (46.19). King Parakkamabahu | assigned in the
hospital built by him at Pulatthinagara, to each sick person,
a male or female slave who had to attend on the patient

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 103

(73.34-36). Queen Kalydnavati, beg. of the 13th century,
built a monastery in the village PannasalAé and granted it
villages, fields and gardens, articles of use and slaves
(80. 35-36). Her general Ayasmanta also created a pari-
vena and supplied it with slaves, male and female (dasidase
80.39). Yet in the 18th century King Kittisirirajasiha is
said to have assigned to the holy Tooth-Relic besides
other precious presents, numerous villages and fields to-
gether with many slaves both male and female (100.11).

As we may infer from the chronicle, it sometimes
happened that people who were indebted or‘unable to earn
their livelihood, sold themselves and perhaps also their
wives and children to their creditor or to some other rich
man in order to maintain their existence. Under unfortu-
nate circumstances this state could grow into permanent
slavery. But, originally at least and on principle, it was
temporary and could come to an end through redemption.
Parakkamabahu II is praised for having redeemed nume-
rous people who had been enslaved during the despotic
dominion of the usurper Magha (87. 46-7).

There was always humiliation or abuse in the words

dasa and dasi and they were, therefore, avoided at least by

more sensitive people. King Aggabodhi VIII., 801-812,

once addressed, probably in anger, one of his slaves with

the word ddsa, but he afterwards repented of it; to make.

up for this, he allowed the slave to use the same word to-
wards himself. (49. 62). This story shows that we have no
reason to assume that the slaves were always ill-treated in
any way by their lords, much less than they were treated
with cruelty. When the officials of a king call themselves

his slaves, as int 70.202, this is, of course, a rhetorical humi-.

hation. .

In Sinhalese the word = female slave is midi which

derives from Sk. P. mundita, ‘shaved’. This shows that in

former times a female slave was not allowed to wear long

hair, but had to shave her head when she was taken: into a

family. ie oe sae a
4

Se ee

ia: “WILHELM GEIGER

63. A somewhat different social position was enjoyed
by the kammakara. The word is often combined with
désa, even in the form of a compound, as also the corres-
ponding Sk. word karmakara. In the Kautaliya (2nd ed.
Shama Sastry, p. 142, trsl.178-9) the Karmakara-dasah are
enumerated as property of a man along with biped and
quadruped animals; in the Jatakas (III, 129°*) they are
mentioned as belonging to the household of a rich merchant
(R. Fick, op. cit., translated by Maitra, pp. 262, 305). In
the same manner according to the Mahadvamsa Dasas and
Kammakaras depended on a lord who had legal authority
over them. In the disturbed times which preceded the
reign of Parakkamabahu in the [2th century, both classes
revolted against their lords (sdmino 61.68). But the Kamma-
karas were not personally unfree like the slaves, though
their freedom was limited by certain restrictions. They
had to perform some work for their lord at regular intervals
or certain occasions, as for instance during the harvest or
when new buildings were to be erected. As payment for
this service a small estate, a divel, was assigned to them,
from which they could gain their livelihood. The labour
was substituted for the rent. Sometimes Kammakara is
rendered by ‘hired labourer,’ but, | think, the translation
“serf’ would be more appropriate.

The designation kammakara does not imply humilia-
tion as does the word dasa. Ina broader sense it can be
used for any person who is bound to perform orders pres-
cribed for him by a superior. Thus in 47.33 the petty
officers of an army commanded by a general are called by

this title; the same designation is used (46.13) by the chro- _

nicler for the Damila Potthakuttha at King Aggabodhi IV’s
court (cf. above 60). In such cases we have simply to
translate the word as ‘servant.’

The Kammakaras could, like the slaves, be given away
to another lord. In this case they were appointed to render
the new lord the same service that they had rendered
formerly to the old one. Senal., 831-5], is said in 50.64

|
‘a
i

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 103

to have granted slaves and serfs to a monastery he had
built on the Arittha mountain. By King Vikkamabahu II.,
1116-1137, the ‘royal workmen’ (rajakammiké, 62.43) were
ordered to rebuild ruined temples and relic-shrines and
destroyed tanks. Here probably the kammakaras in the
royal service are to be understood.

The word kammakara ought not to be confounded with
karmakdara, the latter being no technical term but simply
denoting a man who has to perform some work, a ‘work-
man’ in the most general sense.

64. Often, after all, a distinction is made in the chro-
nicle between kulind people of good family and ‘hina
‘people of the lower classes.’ | need not say that this
distinction concerns but the laity. In the later parts of
the chronicle, from ch. 80 onwards, the word kulina is
generally replaced by kulaputta.

Since kulina is derived from kula, and kula is used to
denote a family or clan of the nobility, Rulina means a
nobleman. A few clans are mentioned in the chronicle
by names: (1) Lambakanna, (2) Moriya, (3) Kulinga,
(4) Taraccha, (5) Balibhojak&. The name of the Sthala will
be discussed separately. The five names quoted above
denote animals: lambakanna is ‘hare’ or ‘goat’, moriya
‘peacock’, kulitga means a bird, the ‘fork-tailed shrike’,
taraccha is ‘hyena’ and balibhojaka ‘crow’. This clearly
shows that the Sinhalese clans had a totemistic character.
A peacock was, for instance, the emblem and perhaps the
mythical ancestor of the Moriyas.

OF all these clans the Lambakannas were nearest to,

and probably formed a branch of, the royal dynasty. Many

of them wore the crown themselves in Ceylon, some
already in ancient times and at the beginning of the
medizeval period. This was the case with King Samghatissa.
and his successors between the years 362 and 431 A.C.
In the seventh century Lambakannas were alternating with
members of the royal family. Five Lambakannas, mention-
ed by name, were entrusted by Parakkamabahy I with ibe.

104 WILHELM GEIGER

enlistment of soldiers for the army he wanted. when
beginning the struggle for the throne (69.12-13). In a
religious feast celebrated by the same king Lambakannas
played a part with other people of the noblest families
(mah@kulind, 74. 213-4). It is noticeable that Lambakannas
also existed in Southern India. They had to perform
certain functions at the coronation festival of Virapandu in
Madhura, which was arranged by Parakkamabahu | (77.25).

Next in rank to the Lambakannas seem to have been
the Moriyas. With Dhatusena a scion of this clan ascended
the throne about the year 460 A.C., and thereafter the
Moriyas reigned over sixty years. The Taracchas and the
Kulingas apparently came to Ceylon along with the bough
of the sacred Bodhi-tree which was planted at Anuradhapura
in the Mahavihara (19.2). In the Cilavamsa the Taracchas
are mentioned only in 42.30. People of the Taraccha clan
had to convey the statue of the thera Mahinda to the bund
of the Mihindatata tank constructed by King Aggabodhi I,
568-601. About the end of the 12th century a Kulinga, Mahin-
da by name, treacherously slew King Vijayabahu IL., but he
was himself killed after five days by the indignant inhabit-
ants of the country (80.15. sqg.). The Balibhojakas are
mentioned but once in the later Mahavamsa (85.1). Here
the elders (jefthad) of the clan are said in 85.51 to have
participated in a great festival, celebrated by Parakkama-
babu II in the thirteenth century. They had to fend off,
it seems, by certain ceremonies or incantations all influences
emanating from evil spirits which could disturb the course
of the feast.

It is doubtful whether the name monasitha (90.7) also
denotes a totemistic clan. The monasihas were nine
brothers who, bribed by the treacherous general Mitra,
tried to murder the rightful heir to the throne Bhuvaneka-
bahu 1, the son of Parakkamabahu II. Non-totemistic is
the clan-name Girivamsa (91.4), if this does not simply
mean ‘highland tribe.” A scion of the Girivamsa was the
powerful minister Alagakkonara of Vikkamabahu IV,

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA _ 10s

There may have been more totemistic:clans in Ceylon
than the five enumerated above. But it is not necessary,
I] think, to assume that they were of non-Aryan origin.
Totemism is a world-wide superstition and was by no means
unknown to the ancient Aryans. Among the gotra-names
there are many of totemistic character, which are taken from
the names of animals or plants (H. Zimmer, Studien zur
Gesch. der Gotras, Diss. Berlin 1914). The Kasyapas
are the ‘tortoise-men’ from Sk. kagyapa. The name of
the Mandiikas is derived from mandika, frog; that of the
Saunakas, Aurnavabhas, Kapeyas from unaka, ‘dog,’
airnandbhi, ‘spider,’ kapi, ‘ape;’ that of the Aévatthya from
agvattha, ficus religiosa, &c. Moriya, the name of Candra-
gupta’s and Asoka’s clan, is the same word as moriya in
the Mahavamsa (cf. A. Griinwedel, Buddhistische Kunst,
p» 72; Mbhvs.-Tika, ed. Malalasekera | 18075). The form
maurya is a Sanskritisation of the Middle-Indian moriya,
and the name of Candragupta’s mother Mur who became
the female ancestor of the whole clan, is but an etymologi-
cal invention in order to explain the Sk. word maurya. |

65. The name. Sihala is itself a totemistic clan-name.
It refers to the oft-quoted legend of Sihabahu, the son of —
a lion (Siha) and a Vanga princess (Mhvs. 6.1'sq,). The
home of this legend is Kalinga, it is therefore an Aryan ,
legend. Sihapura (59°46) is the name of the Kaliiga capital.
When soon after the colonisation of Ceylon by Aryans the
influence of North-Eastern India bacame decisive for the .
further development of its civilisation, the legend was
combined with the story of Vijaya who was made the eldest
son of Sihabahu and given the name Sihala. The name was_
also conferred on his companions (7.42), and the original
clan-name was thus amplified and it was used from that time
onwards as designation of all the inhabitants of Ceylon.
This is clearly shown by expressions like ruler of the Sihala_
(Sihaladhipa), Sihala-language (Sihala nirutti), &c. Ceylon
itself was called Sihala-dipa, ‘Island of the Sihalas’), as
from ancient times Lanka-dipa, and the Sihalas were often

106 WILHELM GEIGER

contrasted with other people like Damilas, Ramafifias,
Javakas. But in 54.9-I11 we have the interesting notice
that King Mahinda IV., 952-72, had fetched from India a
princess born in the clan of the Kalinga rulers and made her
his first queen. Two sons and one daughter were borne
by her, and thus Mahinda founded the Sihala clan (Sihala-
vemsam). Apparently the remembrance of the old Kalinga
legend concerning Sihabahu and Vijaya along with his
successors gave rise to this story. Thus the ancient clan-
name was readopted by the Sinhalese kings in the mediz-
val period.

The foremost clan in Celyon was the royal clan (raja-
vamsa 46.42; 52.16). The members of this clan traced
their descent not from Vijaya, but from the fourth Sinhalese
King Pandukabhaya (Sinh. Paduabha). According to the
legend, Vijaya died without legitimate offspring; his succes-
sor was his alleged nephew Panduvdsudeva, a grandson of
Sthabahu, who came from Kalinga (8.1 sq.). The historical
kernel of the legend may be the fact, mentioned above in
59, that soon after the Aryan colonisation of Ceylon
numerous immigrants came from India into the island.
Panduvasudeva’s daughter UmmAadacitta is said to have had
intercourse with young Dighagamani, son of the Sakiya
prince Dighayu, who had arrived in Ceylon during that king's
reign. Ummiadacitta gave birth to a son who was named
Pandukabhaya. This king and his descendants therefore
belonged to the Sakiya (Sakka) clan from which the Buddha
came forth. At the head of this clan stands the mythical
King Okkaka, the Iksvaku of the Indian Epics, the founder
of the Solar line. In Buddhist literature this line is traced
yet further back to king Mahdsammata. We understand
therefore that the legitimate Sinhalese kings regard as their
ancestor either Okkaka (in inscriptions: Okd-vas raj para-
puren bat=P. Okkaka-vamsa-raja-parampardaya bhattha) or
Mahdsammata (Mhvs. 47.2), and that they often boast of
their descent from the Sakiya clan, mentioning the Buddha’s
father Suddhodana. as ancestor. The Lambakannas and
2 Reta neem

Aree

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 107

Moriyas were, | think, branches of the Solar line, and
probably also other Sinhalese clans. They never seem to
have been regarded as usurpers when they ascended the
throne.

66. After this excursion into the legends and history of
the Sinhalese clans I shall revert now to the differentiation
between kulind and hind.

Wherever the kulin@ are mentioned in the chronicle,
they are somehow or other connected with the royal family
and with the government. They were the supporters of the
kingdom and its tower of strength. From the kulas the
officials were taken both in civil and military service, pro-
bably in hereditary succession. The greater landed pro-
prietors also belonged to the nobility, in contrast with the
leaseholders who cultivated parts of their property and had
to pay arentto the owner. Often the kulind may have
been the first settlers in any district of the country. They
had for cultivation cleared the wilderness and founded a
village which was inhabited by families of the clan and
their descendants. This appears from the term kulagaéma
which occurs in 38.38.

It also happened that noblemen opposed the king.
When in the fifth century the Damilas, altogether six rulers,
held sway in Ceylon, most of the kinsmen of the noble
families (jand kulind, 38.12) betook themselves to Rohana

as their refuge. But some of them attached themselves to.

the Damilas. When Dh&tusena succeeded in annihilating
the foreign dynasty, he severely punished those treacherous
noblemen by depriving them of their villages and leaving
these villages defenceless.

The kings protected and frthered the noblemen for
their own interest. Vijayabahu I|., 1039-1114, is said to
have chosen people of good family and charged them with
his protection, and they were his permanent bodyguard
(60.1). Parakkamabahu I thought it his duty to protect
those people of noble birth who had been ruined, by plac-

ing them in their rightful position. (73,7). ~ Women of good:

¥

Bh See

108 WILHELM GEIGER

family (kulind itthiyo, kulitihiyo) were treated with much
respect. King Udaya I, 792-7, used to present such
women, if they were widowed (andtha), with ornaments,
and when they were in want, he handed them food at night
(49.35). Wijayabahu gave them villages, food and clothing
according to their deserts (60.78).

The low-class people were, of course, first and foremost
the Dasas and Kammakaras and all the beggars and other
poor people. They comprised probably also the lease-
holders of smaller pieces of land who depended on the
owner of the estate, and the lower artisans, such as black-
smiths, potters, washermen and others, who were consider-
ed to be the village-servants (Sinhtovilkdrayé, H. W.
Codrington, Land Tenure; p.1.)

It was always a symptom of decline, when people of the
lower classes exerted influence onthe ruler. King Sena V,
972.81, liked the company of low-class favourites hinaja
vallabhaé jand. He was induced by them to take intoxicat-
ing drinks and thus ruin his health, so that he died after a
short reign while still youthful in years (54.70-72). In the
greatly disturbed times during the first half of the twelfth
century, the four princes who had occupied the different
provinces slighted in their heedless way people of good
family and placed ambitious men of lower classes {hine
jane) in leading positions. The princes forcibly seized the
possessions of the nobles who scattered here and there and
hid themselves in divers places (6].50-52, 62). Manabha-
rana’, lying on his deathbed, bitterly repented of having
seized the treasures endowed by sons of good family to the
Tooth-Relic and the relic of the sacred Alms-bow! (72.302
sq.)

It was Parakkamabahu, afterwards surnamed the Great,
who with a high hand made an end of this chaotic state of
things.
CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 109

V. SOCIAL ORGANISATION
11. Caste-System

A. Preliminary remarks

67. Hardly any part of the Indian culture has so fre-
quently and so amply been discussed by scientists as the
caste-system. It may be sufficient to refer here to the well-
known and oft-quoted work of E. Senart, Les castes dans
P'Inde, les faiis et le systeme, Paris 1896, and to that of
R. Fick, The Social Organisation in North-East India in
Buddha’s Time, translated by 5S. Maitra, Calcutta, 1920.

The Indian caste-system, as it has been built up by the
Brahmanas and is described in the Brahmanical literature,
is no doubt to a large extent a theory and often out of keep-
ing with facts. According to this theory, the Indian people
are divided into four castes: Brahmana, Ksatriya, Vaisya,
Sidra. The first three are the light-coloured Arya, the
Sidras the dark-coloured original inhabitants of the country
who had been subjugated by the Aryan invaders. Hence
the word varna ‘colour’ as designation of a caste. Each of
the four castes had its peculiar profession: the Brahmanas
were the priests, the Ksatriyas the warriors, the Vaiéyas
the agriculturists and the Siidras the artisans.

The tripartition of the Aryais very ancient. It existed
already in pre-Vedic times, for it is met with also among the
Old Iranians. In the. Avesta people are divided into
priests (atharvan), warriors (rathaésta, lit: one who fights
from a carriage) and farmers (vdstrya fsayant, lit: cattle-
breeding agriculturist). The opposition to the non-Aryan
aboriginal tribes (daha &c.) is also emphasised in the
Avesta.

The Brahmanical theory of. the four castes may have
been adequate to the facts in the oldest Vedic period. The
Aryan tribes which successively invaded North-Western
India, were semi-nomads, while the original inhabitants
were living in towns occupying ¢ amore advanced stage of

3

iro WILHELM GEIGER

civilisation. The invaders occupied the open country for
their agricultural purposes; the non-Aryans, called dasyu,
had to work for them as craftsmen. This was the first
line of demarcation, separating the conquerors from the
subjugated Dasyus. Among the Arya the priesthood had
its prominent position since pre-Vedic times. The bulk
of the people engaged in cattle-breeding and agriculture
and they enjoyed the protection of the most warlike
families. These ‘warriors’ were probably also land-owners,
but, being engaged in martial exercises, they did not
cultivate their lands themselves but got them cultivated
by the farmers as payment for protection.

In the course of historical development, when the
Aryan rule was established in Northern India, the Brahma-
nical theory more and more ceased to be in accordance
with the actual conditions.

The Brahmanas, it is true, continued to lay claim
to superiority and remained a close caste. But many
of them could not earn their livelihood by priestly work
and were compelled to go in search of some worldly
occupation. The Ksatriyas were no longer ‘warriors’,
when the conquest of the country was finished and the
race of the aboriginal inhabitants was absorbed by that
of the invaders. But they kept alive their glorious family
traditions and were conscious of their descent from the
victorious classes under whose leadership the Aryans had
conquered their new dwelling-places. They split up into
many clans which sometimes came into conflict with one
another by rivalry. Gradually they became the ruling
class in the state, the nobility and the representatives of
political power with the king at their head. In the eyes
of the people they were no doubt superior to the Brahmanas,
and in the whole Buddhist literature the Ksatriyas are
always assigned the first place in the list of castes. They
even emulated with the Brahmanas in learning and religious

study and were the proper guardians of the deep thoughts
contained in the Upanisads. .
CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA  i11

68. Yet more far-reaching were the changes and
innovations in the Vaigya and Sidra castes. Owing to the
progressive amalgamation of the races the distinction
between these two castes was more and more effaced.
Moreover, many Aryans were unable to gain their living
by agriculture and had to learn arts and handicrafts from
those whom their ancestors had subjugated. Thus, although
they originally ranked among the Vaiéyas, they were on
a level with Stidras and their social position began to
depend on the more or less reputable character of their
occupation.

With the progress of civilisation new professions came
up and their representatives were anxious to separate them-
selves from those whom they considered to be lower in
status owing to their pursuit of a less reputable occupation.
The two old castes were thus gradually split into numerous
professional groups which could be called vannd ‘castes’,
but in a modified sense of this word.

By intermarriage of persons belonging to different groups
new castes were formed, so that their number was constantly
increasing. The rigid Brahmanical caste prescriptions,
however, concerning endogamy, heredity, purity and
pollution and the like, were by no means forgotten, but
were observed in the Brahmana caste and transferred in the
Kesatriya caste to the single families and clans, and in the
lower classes to those numerous professional groups.

Such seems to have become the social organisation in
the Buddhist times, and it has been depicted with the help
of the Jatakas in an admirable manner by R. Fick in the
work quoted above. It would be erroneous to look upon
the Buddha asa social reformer who destroyed the severe
limits fixed by. caste in India. He merely taught the
worthlessness of caste as means of acquiring salvation.
The Buddhist Order was open irrespective of ‘caste to all
individuals, who having abandoned the worldly life were
striving for Nirvana. Forthe members of the Order caste
rules had ceased to exist, but they did not lose their .

112 WILHELM GEIGER

rigidness for the laymen. The Brahmanical theory was so
strongly embedded in the minds of the Buddhists that they
spoke of it and discussed its value in their literature, though
they were certainly well aware of its incongruity with the
real facts of life.

69. The first Aryan immigrants in Ceylon, of course,
brought with themselves into their new home the tradition
of a social organisation conforming to that which existed
at that time (about the 4th century A. C.) in Northern India.
It must have been very similar to the organisation depicted
in the Jatakas. Owing to the uninterrupted traffic with
North-Eastern India it developed in Ceylon on the same
lines asthere. The Brahmanical theory of the four castes
has not entirely lost its vitality in medizeval Ceylon and
the old phraseology connected with the institution is
sometimes preserved in single cases. Yet at the beginning
of the 13th century the expression ‘the four castes’ (cafub-
bannd, Mhvs. 80. 41) occurs as paraphrase for the whole of
society. They had become impure by mixture (samkinna),
but were scrupulously separated and purified by Ayasmanta,
the general of queen Kalydnavati. This notice points in
conventional form to a social upheaval caused by inter-
marriages between families of lower and higher classes
which were repugnant to amore conservative and aristo-
cratic mentality. Even in the Niti-nighanduva (cf. above
in 62) four castes are distinguished, though they did not
exist in reality for many centuries past. But it is remarkable
that instead of the Sidras the Goyi-vamsa, the caste of
agriculturists, is put in the fourth place.

If we leave aside the comparison with India and
simply try to depict the social organisation in Ceylon
from the Mahadvamsa we see that the bifurcation of
the society into loka and sdsana and again that of
the laity into kulinad and hind (cf. above 64) plays a
much more important part than caste according to the
Brahmanical system. This may partly be due to the
fact that the chroniclers were Buddhist priests who did

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA = 133

not care much for caste, but it also seems to point to
a social development beyond the stage described in the
Jatakas. The final result of that development comes out in
modern times, when, after the fall of the native kingdom,
both the Brahmana caste and the nobility inseparably
connected with it has entirely disappeared from the
Sinhalese society. According to Cordiner, Description of
Ceylon, 1, 1807, p. 93, there existed in Ceylon only profes-
sional castes, nineteen in number who ail live as distinct
tribes, and intermarry only with persons of their own rank
and profession, Enumerated according to their rank they are :
1. agriculturists, 2. keepers of cattle, 3. fishers, 4. toddy-
drawers, 5. mechanics (such as carpenters and goldsmiths),
6. tanners, 7. potters, 8. washers, 9. cinnamon-peelers,
10. porters, I1. sieve-emakers, 12. barbers, 13. lime-
burners, 14. tom-tom beaters or drummers, 15. makers of
charcoal, 16. palanquin-bearers, 17. mat-weavers; 18, exe-
cutioners and 19. Rodiyas are outcastes.

B, Bréhmanas and Ksairiyas

The Bradhmanas (synon: vippa=Sk. vipra, dija=Sk.
dvija) were always priests and their privilege was the perfor-
mance of the religious rites prescribed in the Vedas. They
were honoured and supported by the king in the same
manner as the Bhikkhus, and we know already the’ im-
portant and influential position which the Brahmanas, and
foremost the Purohita, had at the royal court (cf. above
34, J.G.1.8. IV, 1937, p, 81 sq.). Near his palace king Parak-
kamabahu | erected two buildings which were reserved for
Brahmanical purposes. In the building called hemarman-
dira, ‘Golden House’ the Brahmana priests performed the
ceremonies of expiation in the dhdranighara ‘House of
spells’ they recited magic incantations (Mhvs. 73, 71).

The réle the Brahmanas played at court clearly shows
the admirable vitality of their theories and doctrines, and
it indicates how deep-rooted they were still in the minds

ay WILHELM GEIGER

of the Indo-Aryans many centuries after they had lost their
practical consequences. But not all Brahmanas in Ceylon
were living at court and serving the king. The Hindu cult,
though considerably inferior to Buddhism, was not perse-
cuted there or annihilated. Temples of Siva and Visnu
stood in the towns; they have been detected amid the ruins
of Polonnaruva and partly restored. In all these sanctua-
ries no doubt Brahmanas were officiating, and they certain-
ly also displayed much activity in all sorts of charms, au-
gury and astrology, belief in which even in modern times
is wide-spread in Ceylon. Among the spies sent out by
prince Parakkamabahu when he wished to find out the
actual conditions in Gajabahu’s country, there were also
people disguised as Brahmanas and ascetics (tdpasd, 66,
132, 135). They were wandering like unto pious pilgrims
from village to village in order to take the opportunity of
investigating and influencing the political views of the
people.

One thing, however, remains doubtful. It is a well-
known fact that in post-Vedic times many members of the
Brahmanical caste in Northern India had to earn their live-
lihood by non-priestly more or less reputable occupations.
But they did not lose their caste, for they belonged to it by
birth. Such Brahmanas are aptly called ‘worldly Brahma-
nas’ by R. Fick, op. cif., p. 192 sq., 212 sq. If such Brah-
manas existed at all in Ceylon, they were certainly few in
number. I can only quote one expression in the whole
chronicle which perhaps may refer to worldly Brahmanas;
that is vanibbino-bradhmana in 73. 32 (cf. below 77 sub-
finem). It is true, the percentage of Brahmanists as com-
pared with Buddhists was no doubt smaller in Ceylon than
in Bengal or Orissa, and the chances of living by priestly
function alone were yet smaller than in India. But, on the
other hand, in a country where Buddhism was so predomi-
nant as in Ceylon, it was perhaps easier and not so dis-
honourable for a Brahmana, when he was reduced to
poverty, to leave his caste and to enter into one of those
professional groups which had come into existence in the

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 115

Buddhist era as branches of the former Vaiéya and Sidra
castes.

71. The word Khattiya=Sk, Ksatriya, frequently occurs
in the medizval Mahavarnsa, but it does not denote the
walrior caste or even a caste at all. The caste, as we have
seen, was split up into a great number of families or clans
(kula, vamsa, gotta) who often rivalled and sometimes were
even at feud with one another; wars were fought by a militia
called out in times of emergency and by an active army of
mercenaries. The Khattiya is simply a man of the highest
class, a nobleman, a prince. Synonyms with khaitiya are
bahuja (Mhvs. 59. 2) and rajahha (89. 27}=Sk. rdjanya.
The former reminds us of the old Bhahmanical legend,
according to which the Ksatriya caste sprang from the arm
of the god Brahma. The latter is met with in the triad
raja-rGjafifia-mantino, ‘king, noblemen and dignitaries,” who
are the firm foundations of the state.

Frequently the title khattiya is given by the chronicler
to the prince who in legal succession ascends the throne.
Such phrases as ‘now his brother next in age, the prince
(khattiyo) Kassapa became king’ (48. 20) often occur in
the older part of the Cilavamsa. At the head of the whole
nobility stands the king. In 73. 137 Parakkamabahu I. is
glorified as ‘the highest flag of the Khattiya clans’ (kha-
ttiye-vams’-ckaketu) and in inscriptions of the tenth century
kings are called ‘the pinnacle of the Khattiya clans’ (kat-
kula-kot=P. Khattiya-Kula-kunta) as for instande Kassapa
IV and Dappula IV. (Ep. Z, I] 41A.?"*. dL 127A.2-4 Or they
even boast of ‘having made the other Khattiya clans their
vassals’ (an kdt-kula pamili kala=P, afifie Rhattiya-kule
pada-miile Rafa) as Udaya Ill (II) and Kassapa V. (Ep. Z,
Hl, 193A;5-" | 221), The peculiar title ‘Great Lord’ (maha-
sdmin) seems to have been reserved to the scions of the
royal clan. Dappula, an offspring of Okkaka, afterwards
king Dappula IV., 650 A.C., is given this title in 45. 50, and
in 57. 24; 30, 49); it is given to all the noblemen born in the
clan of Manavamma who was a descendant of the same
mythical king. eer:
116 WILHELM GEIGER

72. The Khattiyas had their own laws, the khatta-
dhamma (Mhvs. 67. 91.). Versed in these laws valid for
the nobility, prince Parakkamabahu, at a favourable cons-
tellation, celebrated the festival of the binding on of the
frontlet denoting the rank of a Mahadipida. We do not
hear much in the chrenicle about the details of those laws.
The marriage-rules may have been included in them. There
existed no strict endogamy within the single clans. Exam-
ples of intermarriage between them are often reported. A
younger sister of the Moriya Moggallana I., 496-513, was the
consort of the Lambakanna Silakala (39. 44-5; 41. 7; J.
Stull, Index to the Mahdvamsa, p. 81, IID. Moggallana, the
son of prince Kassapa (afterwards king Vikkamabahu I.)
and father of Kitti (afterwards king Vijayabahu I.) was a
scion of the royal clan and bore the title “Great Lord’
(57, 29-30). He married Lokita? who was the daughter of
Bodhi (57. 41), a descendant of the Lambakanna Datho-
patissa. Mahinda IV., 956-72 is said to have fetched a
princess from Kalinga and made her his queen, though there
was a race of Khattiyas in Lanka’ (54, 9). It is implied in
this notice that he could woe as an equal consort a daughter
of each of the Khattiya clans in Ceylon.

Equality of birth was the first requisite in a nobleman’s
marriage, and all the Khattiya clans were equal to each
other. As to the intermarriage of the Sinhalese royal
family wih foreign dynasties I refer to what is said
above in 2-3, J.G.1.S, H, 1933, pp. 91-93"). The Solar and the
Lunar line (Kalinga and Pandu) were considered to be
equal to the Sinhalese kings, but not the dynasty of the
Colas, nor the Arya line of the Rajputs.

At all events the most aristocratic marriage seems
always to have been that with a daughter of the same clan.
In several inscriptions (cf. Ep. Z, 1 221°) it is emphasised

that Dev Gon (the Queen of Kassapa V., 913-23) was of the

* T wish to correct a mistake on p. 93. We have to read
93

on 1. 15 ‘daughter’ (of Jagatipala) instead of ‘consort’ and on 1. 16
‘Lilavati's. (daughter) instead of ‘his.’

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA i197

same family (e-ma kulen=P. ten’eva kulina) and therefore
equal to him in birth (sama-dé=P. sama-jati). Is this
perhaps the reminiscence of an older endogamous Khattiya
law?

That certain rules were observed by the Khattiyas as
regards eating is shown by a story narrated in 47. 9. sq.
We learn from it that a Khattiya would never eat remnants
of a Khaitiya meal, for then he would admit himself to be
of a lower caste. Prince Manavamma, when he lived as a
refugee in Southern India, was riding one day with his
friend the Pandu king Narasiha on the back of the same
elephant. Narasiha, feeling thirsty, drank a cocoanut and
then gave it to his friend. Manavamma hesitated to
accept it owing to the clan regulations, but finally he made
up his mind to drink. Narasiha at once understood the mis-
take he had made and drank now himself in turn what
Manavamma had left. Thus it was manifest that they
considered one another to be equal in rank.

C. Professional Castes and Outcastes
73. In the old Mahavamsa (3. 3) Vessas (Sk. Vaigya)

and Suddas (Sk. Sadra) are mentioned side by side with the
Ksatriyas and Brahmanas. They all were present when
the body of the Buddha was burnt at Kusinara. Here we
meet with the ancient Brahmanical theory of the four castes.
The word vessa is also preserved in the name of the famous
monastery Vessagiri near Anuradhapura. The name is
explained in Mhvs. 20. 15 by the legend that five hundred
Vessas were dwelling in the monastery after they had been
admitted into the Order by the thera Mahinda.

Notices of such kind are missing in the medizeval parts
of the chronicle. The word sudda does not occur at all in
the Cilavamsa, while vessa occurs in one passage only,
76. 264, which however does not refer to Ceylon, but to
South-India. The Vessas and the Yavanas of the Pandu
kingdom are related to have brought presents to the victori-
ous general of Parakkamabahu I. who distinguished them by :
118 WILHELM GEIGER

countless marks of favour. The Vessas denote here the
peaceful agriculturists who had suffered much by the war,
and the Yavanas probably the Moorish traders who were
carrying on their business in South-India as well as in
Ceylon. Cf. E. R. Ayrton, Note on the Mahawansa (Ceylon
Notes and Queries I, Oct. 1913, p. VIID).

The general word by which all kinds of occupation, arts
and handicrafts, are expressed, is sippa (Sk. éilpa). People
who understood or practised any art or handicraft are called
sippino or sippikd. These words also frequently occur in
the canonical Buddhist literature and in the Jatakas.

When in the thirteenth century Vijayabahu, who had
taken over the burden of the government at his father’s
(Parakkamabahu II’s) order, wished to restore the temple of
the Tooth-Relic at Jambuddoni, he fetched from all parts of
the kingdom many groups of artists (bahi sippigane) ex-
perienced in every branch of art. Many artists (bahdi sippi-
jana) were also employed by the same ruler in the restora-
tion of the buildings of Anuradhapura (88. 13, 85).

Concerning North-Eastern India during the brightest time
of Buddhism R. Fick, op. cit., p. 327, says: ‘The distinction
between castes (jati) and occupations (sippa) has gradually
been obliterated and in modern times has been almost
wholly abolished.” We may add that the process has
practically come to an end in medizval Ceylon. Caste
means a group of families practising the same profession,
the profession most probably being hereditary. In con-
nexion with this change the old terms vanna or jati become
more and more obsolete and are replaced either by sippa or
by the more general words vagga (Sk. varga) or gana (Sk.
idem) both meaning ‘group’. These groups may be called
“‘castes’—in the modern sense, of course—for the ancient
caste rules and prescriptions were transferred to them, as
we see from the constitution of the Sinhalese castes at the
time when British rule was established in Ceylon.

74. A peculiar term in medizeval Ceylon for artisans or
asort of craftsmen is pessa or pessiya (pessika). The word

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 119

has its history in the Pali literature. Jt means one who does
not work on his own account as the agriculturists do but on
another person’s service. In Suttanipata 615 (quoted by

R. Fick, p. 221) we read:

Yo hi koci manussesa parapessena jivati |
evam, Vasettha, janahi, pessiko so, na brahmano ||

Whoever among men ekes out a living through service
which he renders to others, know this, Vasettha, is a
Pessika and no Brahmana.

In SN.651 pessika is put together vith kassaka agricul-
turist, sippika artist and vdnija merchant. As the craftsmen
are no doubt included in the term sippika, the word pessika
must be rendered here by ‘servant’, ‘slave’ or the like, and
this is indeed its meaning in the canonical literature. Pessa
is frequently joined with dasa and kammakara, standing
between thetwo: ddsd ti 0d pessa ti va kammakaré ti va
(D. I. 141°° S 1 76° &c.) and SI 93° after them in a verse:
dasa kammakard pessd. In DCol 300° dasd is explained
by antojdiddayo ‘those who are born in the house and the
others’, i.e. the four classes of slaves (see above 62), pessd
by ye pubbam dhanam gahetvé kammam karonti, ‘who do
their work after having received money before’, and
kammakaréa by ye bhatiavetanam gahetvd karonti, ‘who do
(the work) after having received food as wages’.

In the Jatakas VI 448** pessiya means ‘attendant,
servant, soldier’, the fem. pessiyd, ka VI 65°, 67° ‘slave.
girl’, and para-pessiya ‘rendering service to another’ is
II] 413?° adjunct to dasi. The word pessa-kara VI 356?"
means ‘subordinate servant’.

We must start from the meaning ‘rendering service to
another’, if we wish to understand the peculiar use of the
word in the Ciilavamsa. Here the Pessiya is never put
side by side with a slave or aserf, but he is simply a man
who ‘renders service to another’ by manufacturing articles
or by doing any other work for people who pay him
or his service. In short pessa, pessiya means craftsman,

Ld . .
120 WILHELM GEIGER

and this meaning occurs already in Jat. VI 374° where
by pessakamma, ‘a craftsman’s work’, that of a potter, is
meant.

By the name pessa the craftsman is contrasted with the
agriculturist or the cattle-breeder who works for himself
and on his own account. From this contrast again follows
a differentiation of rank within the series of castes. The
Pessiyas are the ‘servants’ of the village and therefore of
lower rank (hind) lower at all events than the villagers to
whom they render service.

Five (or ten) groups or castes of Pessiyas, pafica (or
dasa) pessiya-vagga, are mentioned in the chronicle, but
they are never named. According to Wijesimha, Maha-
vamsa trsl., 1889, p. 94 and 144 n. the five castes are the
carpenters, weavers, dyers (or washermen), barbers and
workers in leather (or shoemakers). | accept this as correct,
for I suppose that W. has followed a tradition prevalent
in Ceylon. It is regrettable that he did not notice which
castes are meant by dasa pessiya-vaggda.

Craftsmen of the same profession were often living to-
gether in one village (R. Fick, p. 280sq.). A village of
weavers is mentioned in Mhvs. 41.96, villages of potters
and masons in Mhvs. Tika, ed. Malalasekera, pp. 483°,
606°. Such villages with the fields appertaining to them
are often assigned to the craftsmen as payment for the
service they had constantly to render to some community
of higher class. The payment could however also consist
in coin or in food, clothes and ornaments (cf. 27.22-23;
30.14, 18-19). ,

The Pessiya castes were also connected with the royal
court. The king with his family and his immediate entour-
age enjoyed the service of craftsmen who were skilful in an
extraordinary degree and did not work for other people.
When prince Parakkamabahu, after his return from Pula-
tthinagara arrived in Dakkhinadesa, his uncle Kittisirimegha
despatched representatives of those pafica pessiya-vagga
to meet him (67.58). As soon as the prince had entered

é

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE ‘MAHAVAMSA rat

his own country, he was to be surrounded and attended to
by the retinue due to each member of the royal family.

When afterwards Parakkamabahu I] (1236-71) reorganised
the kingdom, he also ‘settled’ or ‘rearranged’ (niyametvd
thapesi) the five and the ten Pessiya castes who belonged to
the royal household (ra@jakuldyatte 84.5). We may assume
that in the preceding times of disturbance they had neglec-
ted their duties or not performed them in the prescribed
manner; perhaps they had also served other persons for
money. This is the only passage of the chronicle where
the dasa pessiya-vaggad are mentioned.

The five Pessiya castes could also be granted by the
king to a monastery (57.21) just as slaves or serfs. In this
case the artisans who had formerly served the king were
now to do their work for the monks of the monastery, but
they received payment from the king.

75. Weare not able to give, with the help of the Maha-
vamsa, a complete list of the craftsmen existing in mediz-
val Ceylon and of their castes. They are mentioned here
and there in different connexions. In Mbhvs. 88.105 sq.
many workmen are enumerated who were employed in the
reign of Parakkamabahu II. in the thirteenth century for
restoring the ruined buildings of Pulatthinagara. They
are (1) the workers in iron (ayakara), (2) the fturners (cunda-
kara) and (3) the workers in bamboo (vilivdkara). We do
not know how the ayakdGrd differ from the kammdGra to be
mentioned presently. The word vilivdkGra is used in SCo |
93°° as explanation of venakula. The second group are
(4) the blacksmiths (kammdard), (5) the coppersmiths (loha-
kGra) and (6) the goldsmiths (sonnakara). They are also
mentioned in 68.25, in the rather strange notice that prince
Parakkamabahu for erecting a dam in a big irrigation-work
called together these three classes of smiths, because there
was a lack of stone-cutters (sila-kottaka) in the district.

The third group are (7) the potters (kulald, the same as
kumbhakGra) and (8) the painters (cititakdraka). Between the
two the kaldda@ are mentioned, and it seems that we must

20 WILHELM GEIGER

assume a meaning for this word different from that of Sk.
kalada ‘goldsmith.’ The fourth and probably most import-
ant group is that of the masons (vaddhaki): (9) the workers
in cut-stone (sila-vaddhaki), (10) the brick-layers (itthika—
vaddhaki) and (11) the workers in stucco (cunna—vaddhaki).
To them (12) the carpenters, workers in timber (daru-
vaddhaki) are added. The bhGrik@ ‘porters’ and the
bhataké ‘hirelings’ were employed in the work together with
slaves and outcaste people.

Other craftsmen, such as the weavers (pesa-kdraka 41.96)
and the barbers (kappakd, nahdpakd), are mentioned
occasionally. The barbers appear to have been more in
fighting trim than our barbers generally are, for with court-
officials, hunters and chamberlains they were among the
king’s hunting-train (70.44) and prince Parakkamabahu
is said to have given arms to young barbers and chamber-
lains, so that they formed a kind of bodyguard (69.26).
The hunters (ludd&@, luddaka@) armed with spears and nets.
were employed as drivers ina king's hunting. party (70.35).
But wherever vyGdha@ are mentioned in the chronicle, no
professional Sinhalese hunters are meant, but Vaddas, i. e.
tribesmen of the aboriginal race.

Not mentioned in the Cilavamsa are the washermen
and the fishermen. The former apparently played a role
in the familiar life of the Sinhalese; the latter are divided
in the older part of the chronicle into two classes ; those
who catch fish with bait (bdlisik@ 22.62) and those who
catch them with nets, (kevatta 28.37).

76. The most numerous and highly respected castes
were no doubt the agriculturists (kassakad) and the catile-
breeders (gopaka). This is just the reason why they so
seldom are expressly mentioned in the chronicle. All
the ‘inhabitants of the country’ (janapada), if they were
not reckoned among the Pessiyas, were members of one of
these two castes.

The traders and merchants, (vanija) also seldom occur
in the Cilavamsa. This can partly be ascribed to the fact

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA — 123

that even in medizval Ceylon as now-a-days a good deal
of the commercial trafic was in the hands of Arab traders,
the ‘Moors’ (cf. above 72). They were called Yavanas or
Yonas. Itis certain that under this term all the Western
nations are comprised, not only the Greeks. If we are
toldin Mhvs. 10.90 that already at the time of Panduka-
bhaya a separate quarter existed in Anurddhapura, called
Yonasabhagavatthu, we can assume that this was a kind
of ghetto for those foreign traders. When Parakkama-
bahu I’s General Rakkha on the march to Rohana
approached the town of Valukagama, the modern Valigama,
he promised security to all who would make voluntary
surrender. The merchants (vdnija@) residing there surren-
dered willingly, because life and money were dear to them
(75.44 sq.). Perhaps these merchants were a colony of
foreigners. At the beginning of the modern era the
Portuguese (Parangi) and the Dutchmen (Olandd&) were
also considered to be such traders (95.4-5 ; 99.108-9).

A prominent class within the society were the great
bankers (setthino). Their position will probably have been
the same as that of the Setthins in the Jatakas. Cf. R. Fick,
op. cit., p. 258 sq. They stood, no doubt, in close proximity
to the royal court. Of three brothers who revolted against
king Vijayabahu I., 1059-1114, one was a setthindtha a
chief of the Setthins (59.16). In 69.13 Setthindyaka is the
name of a Lambakanna ; it was probably his title.

The Setthins seem to have been connected with the
guilds (Sk, greni, P. seni). Perhaps they were the foremost
guild. It is said in the Harivamsa Sresthipirvdstu grenayah
‘the guilds have at their head the Sresthins’ (BR. s. v.).
Guilds are also mentioned in the Jatakas (cf. R. Fick, op.
cit, p. 275. sq.), but it is difficult to draw from the text
inferences concerning their constitution or organisation
and their relation tothe castes. In the older Mahavamsa
7.57 the number of the guilds is stated. to be eighteen.
The same number is given in Jat. VI 427" and in Mahavastu
(ed. E. Senart) II], 1144*. In the Cilavamsa guilds are never

124 WILHELM GEIGER

mentioned, so that we cannot say with certainty that they
existed in medizeval Ceylon.

77. Great was the number of casteless wandering
traders or craftsmen and other people of this sort in Ceylon.
There is a highly interesting passage in Mhvs. 66. 130. sq.
where such people are enumerated who were employed by
prince Parakkamabahu as spies in the country of king
Gajabahu. The Chronicler was influenced, it is true, in
his description by the Kautaliya Arthaéastra (cf. W. Geiger,
Calavamsa trsl. I, 263, n. | &c.), but we may take it for
granted that all the types mentioned in that passage, were
well known in Ceylon as they also mostly exist there still
in modern times.

The spies were wandering in disguise, for instance, as
musicians, playing the mandoline and amusing the villagers
with dance and song. There were, it seems, often Damilas
among the musicians. Other artists were playing with
leather dolls just as such popular performances can be seen
in Europe at rural festivals. A peculiar class of artists
were the snake-charmers (ahigunthikd) often met with even
now by each traveller in India.

Itinerant traders used to sell cheap articles as rings
and bracelets or pottery for the household, Fortune-tellers,
skilled in telling of the lines of the hand, were wandering
from village to village, also people expert in mixing of
poisons, probably for love-charm, but sometimes also for
worse purposes, and Brahmanas who were performing the
family rites. Craftsmen as goldsmiths publicly practised
their profession in villages and market-places in order to
attract the interest and the desire of the inhabitants by
their skilful work. Even surgeons visited the villages
practising their healing art, and wandering teachers who
instructed the boys in the art of writing.

Allthese people were in permanent contact with the
subjects of the king and had a good opportunity of knowing
and controlling their minds.

Mendicant artists (ydécaka@ sippino) were often supported
ee dr

OE oo cae RE AR OR

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 124

by the kings who dispensed a peculiar offering for them,
which was called dandissara. We cannot explain the name
of this offering, but we hear of it between the years 900
and 1100 A.C. (52.3; 53. 30; 60. 22). Since the word
sippa has a very comprehensive sense, denoting every
sort of art or craft or religious studies, nearly all the types
occurring in the list of spies sent out by Parakkamabahu,
will be included in the term ydcaka@ sippino: wandering
artisans and artists, even surgeons, teachers, fortune-tellers
and priestly helpers. They are all practising asippa. But
itis common to them that they do not receive a regular
payment for their work, but must take it in each case from
the hands of the villagers according to their means and
willingness, like unto beggars (ydcaka) who eke out their
livelihood by collecting alms in the streets.

In the first chapters of the Ciilavamsa (=Mbhvs. 37. 51.
77) which deal with the history of the fifth to the ninth
centuries we meet with the triad kapan’-addhika-vanibbakd.
These people are supported by pious kings with abundant
alms (37. 76; 41. 66; 44.67; 51. 85). In this triad the
word kapana has the most general sense; all poor people
who are in distress of any kind, are meant by it. By
addhika, I think, the pilgrims are understood who are on
the road (P. addhan, Sk. adhvan) in order to visit a temple
or other sacred places. Among the spies of Parakkama-
bahu were also people in the garb of ascetics, wandering
like unto pious pilgrims from village to village and thereby
performing their devotion in front of the sacred shrines
(66.135-6). It is clear that the support of such pilgrims
is a meritorious work for a Buddhist. _

Not so easy to explain is the word vanibbika (or
vanibbin, often also spelt with n). It seems to be cognate
with P. Sk. vdnija (Geiger, Pali Gr. 46.1), Pk. odnia. In
Buddhist Sk. the form is vanipaka, occurring also as
vaniyaka in the Divyavadana (Stede, Pali Dict. s.v.). |
therefore believe that vanibbaka is the same or nearly
the same as ydcaka sippin, and that it means a wandering

6

126 WILHELM GEIGER

trader, a wayfarer or tramper. Thisis also confirmed by
the use of the word inthe canonical Buddhist literature.
Here in Digha Nik. I, 137%, U1 354** the triad kapan’-
addhika-vanibbaka is preceded by samana-brahmana and
followed by yadcaka, denoting the professional beggar. It
is obvious thatin the whele compound are comprehended
all the classes who should be supported by a pious
Buddhist, first of course by a pious king. The wayfarers
must be among them, they ought not to be omitted.

In Jat. IV 4057? (cf. also 406°*) a Brahmana who has
grown blind is addressed with vanibbaka. Owing to his
blindness he is unable to perform regular activity in a
temple, but must earn his livelihood by wandering from
house to house as a mendicant priest. Another Brahmana
is called vanibbaka Jat. IV 459°° who makes money asa

‘ snake-charmer (cahi-gunthika). He must be reckoned

among the ‘wordly Brahmanas’ and this class of priests is
perhaps also understood in brahmand vanibbino Mbhyvs.
73.32 (cf. above in 70), if this does not mean, what seems to
me more probable, mendicant priests.

By Wijesimha Vanibbaka in all the passages where it
occurs, is rendered as ‘mendicant’ or ‘beggar’ but in 41.66
(cf. 1.1, p. 14) as ‘mendicant minstrel’. This is not wrong,
but too narrow. The translation ‘mendicant artist’ would
have been better.

78 Finally, a few remarks on the outcastes. The Canda-
las were in ancient Ceylon in the same position as in India.
They had to perform the lowest and most polluting work, to
cleanse the streets and the sewers, to bear the dead and to
watch the cemetery. Near the capital Anuradhapura they
were residing in a separate village north-west of the place
where the dead were exposed or burnt (Mhvs. 10.91-3). It
was a shameful humiliation when at the end of the first
century A.C. King Ilandga ordered the Lambakannas who
had revolted against him to make aroad in Anuradhapura,
and had set Candalas to be their overseers (35.16-17). In
the medieval part of the Mahavamsa Candalas are not
Sapte Rate Tho

ee ee

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MAHAVAMSA 127

often mentioned. Spies in the disguise of Candalas were
wandering through Gajabahu’s kingdom (66.132), and
Candalas were employed together with slaves for subordi-
nate labour in public works (88.106).

In modern Ceylon the Candalas are replaced by the Rodi-
yas (cf. H. Nevill, The Taprobanian, June 1886, p. 8! sq. and
August 1887, p. 108 sq.). What we know about the Rodiyas
is highly interesting. They are spread over the whole
island, living in separate hamlets, and have to do the
same unclean work as formerly the Candalas. The inter-
course with them is strictly avoided by Sinhalese of the
better classes. They are beggars as well as thieves by
hereditary custom and speak a conventional secret language
comparable to the language of thieves in Germany. It
is a corrupt form of Sinhalese mixed with foreign words, the
origin of which is sometimes obscure. They have their
peculiar manners and customs often different from those of
the Sinhalese, but they are by no means a degenerate race.
They enjoy bodily strength, the women are often very hand-
some. As regards their origin and first appearance in
Ceylon we are confined to their own very fantastic tradi-

tions. It is however remarkable that in these traditions’ |

their origin is connected with the personalities of Parakka-
mab&hu and one of his daughters. 1 am inclined to suppose
that they were people of a non-Simhalese tribe who immi-
grated in Parakkamabahu’s era, that is about the eleventh
century, into Ceylon. There these foreigners were always
regarded as people of the lowest and most detestable
class. But they mixed with the Candalas, absorbed them
gradually and became thus in their stead the class of out-
castes in Ceylon, This is, however, but a suggestion which
may serve as a working hypothesis for future investi-
gation. :

Mataha
Oy K. AL NILAnANTa SASTRI, M.A

ln hisremarkable paper Le Royaume de Crivijaya, Prof.
(aedts discussed the location of Kataha, identified it with
Kic-ich’a of |-tsing, and Kie-t’o and Ki-t'o of later Chinese
writers, and suggested that most probabl y it lay in the
neighbourhood of modern Kedah. And he laid some ‘stress
on a point already made by Prof. Blagden that Kedah
would be the first place on the Malay peninsula to be
touched by anyone sailing from Southern India to the East
across the Bay of Bengal.

Goedts was not willing to accept at its face value the
gloss of a late annotator on the Pattinappdlai which identi-
fed Kalagam with Kaddram, and suggested that it might
have arisen out of a misunderstanding. ‘In fact,’’ he said’,
Skt. Katadha and Tamil Kaddram both signify ‘frying pan,
cauldron of copper,’ but Kaddram has also the meaning
‘dark brown colour’; now, Kdlagam has precisely the mean-
ing ‘black,’ and it is perhaps only this synonymy which
has induced the annotator of the Pattinappdlai and the
lexicographers to gloss Kalagam by Kaddaram."’ But the
employment of synonyms from one and the same or differ-
ent languages even in referring to proper names isan old
and well-established practice in India, and in the text of
the Paitinappdlai, the word Kdlagam stands for the name
of a place in constant trade relation with Pattinam. or
Kdveripatnam,’ the celebrated port of the early Cola

1 Le Royaume, p. 20.
2 The line is: Tateunavam Kalogatrakkemum, ie. food-stufts
from Ceylon, and the produce of Kalagam. The mention of Kida-

ravan as a variety of aloe-wood. gil) by. the annotator of Silappadi-
kéram is well Enon Paice tee cet

KATAHA 129
monarchs of the Sangam age. And the mention of Kalagam
which must mean Kadaram or nothing, in this early poem
of the second or third century A. D. is not without consider-
able significance to a study of the early history of the Hindu
colonies of the East.

In a very interesting paper entitled Crivijaya, YGoa en
Kataha,’ Ir. J. L. Moens has discussed, with great learning
and acumen, the location and history of Kataha, Ki (a)
dara and Kalagam, Ferrand’s objections to Qcedds’ view
are partly endorsed by Moens who considers, however,
that Ferrand pushes things too far when he concludes that
Kataha and Ki (a) daram should be taken to be two different
countries. Ferrand’s position must be stated in his own
words:* “Trustingin Epigraphy, M. Coedés has admitted
the equivalence of these four notations, which amounts
to saying that Kataha>Ki_,daram>Kélagam, or inversely,
whatever be the order in which we place these three forms.
If such an equation be accepted, phonetic laws will have
to be set aside, and we shall fall into arbitrariness. The

change in the consonant of the second syllable: #>d>1 is.

nothing abnormal ; but that of the last syllable :ha>ram>
gam or ha>gam>ram is altogether impossible. It seems

tome thus necessary to separate Katdha from Ki.da@ram

and take them to be two different countries’. I am
afraid these difficulties were mostly of Ferrand’s making.
We are in the region, as CGcedés rightly recognised, of
synonyms in different languages, and not of. phonetic
changes. Katdha is Sanskrit, and the three other words
are Tamil; of these, Kaddram and Kid@ram are variants
of the same word (cf. kada-kida, kanad-kind, pald-pila, etc.)
which has the same meaning as Katéha; while Kalagam
meaning ‘black’ is synonymous with Kadara, also Sanskrit,
meaning ‘twany’ or ‘dark brown’. The form Kalagam is

3 TBG., 1937, pp. 317-487.
4 JA: 1919, Juil-Aout, pp. 185-6.

130 K, A, NILAKANTA SASTRI

the earliest in Tamil literature. So that the Indian names
of this kingdom fall into two groups:
Skt. Kataha=Tam. Kadaram or Kidaram=cauldron
Skt. Kadara=Tam. Kalagam=black, or dark brown.

lt is difficult to decide which of these is the earliest form
of the name, and all of them seem to be purely Indian
words, having little to do with any language native to Indo-
nesia. Mr. Moens, however, suggests’ that the philological
difficulties raised by Ferrand may be removed by assuming
that Kat&@ha is the foreign Indian name of a place, while
Kadara or Kidara was the Tamil rendering of its indigenous
name. He seeks support for this position, I do not quite
see how, in the mention of “‘akil Kiddravan’" by the anno-
tator of the SilappadikGram and the story of the foolish
merchant, in the Kathdsaritsdgara, who, while trading in
Kataha, burnsa cargo of aloe-wood into charcoal to be
able to sell it the more easily.

For the period of the Cola inscriptions and Song annals,
end of the ninth tothe end of the twelfth century, Moens
allows® the identity of the kingdom of Kadara with San-fo-
tsi, and locates it in the southern extremity of the Malay
peninsula, in the neighbourhood of modern Singapore.
But he has a general theory that geographical names were
not only systematically carried over from India to the
archipelago, but from one place to another even within the
archipelago. Accordingly, he sets out on a quest for the
original location of Kataha, and reaches the conclusion
that this must be found in the Kedu valley in Java.

I do not wish here to discuss the general theory of
Moens, but only examine the application of it to the parti-
cular instance of Kataha, and consider the soundness of the
arguments on which itis based. It seems to me that Mr.
Moens makes a false start when he begins his investigation
by assuming that at the time when the Kathdsaritsdgara

5 P. 4x6.
6 P. 416.
KATAHA 131

story of the foolish merchant was recorded, the aloe-wood
was unknown in Kataha. But the whole point of the story
lies in his act being typical of the young merchant's stupi-
dity, and I do not think any inference of fact can be based
on this act, or even on the statement in the story that aloe-
wood was unknown in Kadaram. Yet Moens feels justified
in concluding from this that another kingdom must have
borne the name Kataha. He suggests further that, if in that
other kingdom also the Sailendras happened to rule as in
the later better-known Kataha, then it can safely be assum-
ed that the new kingdom was in a certain sense a conti-
nuation of the old. This suggestion is useful as an index
to his method, that of applying his hypothesis of the
removal of Kataha from one place to another to the facts of
Sailendra history.

Thus Moens is led to think of the early mention of the
Sailendras in Java and of their great Barabudur monument
in the Kedu plain. Accepting the position that Java was
the original home of the Sailendras, Moens argues that the
Barabudur monument, the Sailendra, where their Vaméa-
kara, the Buddha Sailendra, was symbolically entombed, -
must have been completed before the consecration of Candi.
Kalasan in 778 A.D. He says further:” ‘‘The Sailendras
erected their magic Olympus in Java at the foot of the
Menoreh-mountain, the southern end of the pronouncedly
basin-shaped valley, surrounded on the north by the moun-
tains of Prahu and Ungaran, in the west by. the S8ndara
and Sumbing and inthe east by Talamaya, Mérbabu and
Mérapi. Should it then be a surprise if ‘this valley, which >
was basin-shaped (keteldal), (in extent nearly coinciding
with the old province Kedu), got the Sanskrit name of
Kataha, which name signifies, among other things, a basin
(Keteldal), and this the more where Kataha and the in-
digenous name Kedu. are related both phonetically and
etymologically2’’ It seems that the real argument of Moens

7B. Ars.

*

132 K. A. NILAKANTA SASTRI

in this passage lies at its very end, in the supposed
similarity of the names Kedu and Kat&ha. At any rate,
lam not able to perceive any striking similarity between
the two names, and Moens’ description of the Kedu valley,
while it seems to suit his theory very well, does not seem
ta be borne out by a study of any large scale map of Java
and its physical features. Moreover, Moens has argued
earlier, it will be recalled, that Kaddra or Kidara was the
Tamil rendering of an indigenous name. It does not seem
to be easy to think that Kedu gave rise to either of these
Tamil names.

Moens seeks further support from the Kathdsaritsdgara
for his position that the original location of Kataha is to
be sought in Java. His argument may be summarised
as follows: In the story of the two princesses,* Gunasagara's
daughter, Gunavati, sent as the bride of Vikramaditya,
starts from Kataha to India. ‘‘But it so happened that
when the ship came near Suvarnadvipa, it was swallowed
with the princess and the people on board by a large fish.”’
Then the fish is killed by the people of Suvarnadvipa and
cut open; the ship full of people is released, and the
king of the island Candragekhara, the brother-in-law of
Gunasagara, hears of the occurrence, and after some time
sends his own daughter along with Gunavati to India,
so that both the princesses may become the queens of
Vikramaditya. Moens treats® this miraculous narrative
as a shipwreck suffered by the bride on her way, and
concludes that Kataha must lie to the East or S.E. of
Suvarnadvipa, which, according to him, is the same as
Malaka.

In another story from the same work, a Brahman
Candrasvamin wanders in the islands across the sea in
search of his son. His itinerary is given in verses 56-64
of taranga 56. The places mentioned in order are

8 Penzer and Tawney, IX, Pp. 50.
9 P. 420.

aa
te ns,

eg

(1) Narikeladvipa, (2) Kat&ahadvipa, (3) Karpiiradvipa,
(4) Suvarnadvipa, (5) Simhaladvipa and lastly (6) Citrakita-
pura. After some discussion, the details of which I pass
over because the conclusion embodies them sufficiently
for our purposes, Mr. Moens” reconstructs the itinerary of
the Brahman thus from India, across the ocean to West-
Java (Narikeladvipa); from there one after the other to
middle-Java (Kataha), Sumatra (Karpiradvipa) and Malaka
(Suvarnadvipa) and finally back to Ceylon. He adds:
‘This reconstruction of the itinerary contains nothing that
is manifestly erroneous; its probability will be established
by the following’, and then he passes to a historical
demonstration.

Before proceeding to consider the historical argument,
I must say that in the reconstruction of this itinerary, Mr.
Moens assumes as settled the relative position of Kataha
to Suvarnadvipa as determined by him from the story of
Gunasagara. And his identification of Narikeladvipa with
West-Java has no firm ground to stand on. He refers to
Hiuan Tsang’s hearsay account of the island, and says"*

that four mountains Mainaka, Vrsabha, Cakra, and Baladhaka

are found there—a statement for which he cites no

authority, and Iam not able to find any. And these four:

mountains then become many. mountains at a later stage of
the argument,” and this fact along with the West-Javan king-
dom of Taruma being one of the oldest Hindu settlements
known, are the main grounds for the suggestion that West-
Java must be held to be the Narikeladvipa of the story.
Hiuan Tsang locates his Narikeladvipa some thousands
of li across the sea to the south of Simhala (Ceylon). Yule™
was inclined to identify them with the Nicobars, and Beal’*

ro P. 423.
ni. Pog.

12 Pp. 422-3.
13 Marco Polo, ii, p. 307.
14 Buddhist Records, ii, p. 252, 7. 3-

134 K. A. NILAKANTA SASTRI

with the Maldive islands. Watters lastly writes: ‘“We
do not seem to know anything about the cocoanut island.”
Accepting for a moment the suggestion of Yule and adhering
to prevailing ideas on Kataha and other places, it seems
easy to reconstruct the itinerary of the Kathdsaritsdégara
as follows: from India across the sea to Narikeladvipa
(Nicobars), thence to Kedah (Kataha), Karptradvipa and
Suvarnadvipa i. e. two different parts of Sumatra, and back
to Simhala (Ceylon). But I will not press this far, as] do
not think any great reliance can be placed on these
legendary itineraries.

I may note in passing that after discussing the passages
inthe Kathdsaritsdgara relating to Kataha, Ferrand came
tothe conclusion’®: ‘The simplest thing then is to avow
our ignorance: the Kataha of the Cola inscription and of
the Kathdsaritsdgara do not answer to anything we know
for certain’. On the other hand, Vogel!’ treats the
references in the Kathdsaritsdgara more lightly, and is fully
satished that Kedah furnishes the most satisfactory identi-
fication for the Kataha of the Cola records. Ferrand, |
think, was more to the point when he observed'®:
‘Possibly, however, we are dealing not with geographical
realities, but with imaginary toponyms common to folklore.
The character of Somadeva’s work justifies this conjecture...
The characteristics of this imaginary camphor island are
borrowed from the different insular countries of Indonesia,
particularly Sumatra.’’

We may now turn to the historical side of Moens’
argument. He points out? that Hu-lan-na-po of Po’li
mentioned in the Souei annals at the end of the sixth and
beginning of the seventh century is no other than a regular

15 On Yuan Chwang, ii, p. 237.
16 JA: 1919, Juil-Aout, p. 185.
17 BEL, 75, (1919), p. 633.
18 JA: ibid. n. 3.

1g P. 423.

KATAHA 135

Chinese transcription of the Sanskrit name Gunammava, a
regular synonym of Gunasagara, the king of Kataha
mentioned in the Kathasaritsdgara. This may well be 80;
[am not competent to express an opinion on this matter.
Then he proceeds to suggest” thatthe Vikramaditya of
the story may be either of the two Vikramadityas of the
Calukya dynasty who ruled in the seventh and eighth
centuries A.D. There is no use arguing with such pathetic
faith in the identity of names and the historicity of fables.
Vogel** correctly described Somadeva’s Vikramaditya as
the legendary ruler of Ujjayini. And in the same chapter
in which the story of the princesses is narrated, we finda
woman miraculously released by Vikramaditya and his
famous Vetala being escorted back to her husband at
Ujjayinit. There is nothing gained by confounding this
palpably legendary figure whose glory is attested by the
beasts of the forest and by Vetalas with his humbler
namesakes of history !

After this Mr. Moens carries on a long and intricate
discussion for several pages (424-61) in which some facts
are mixed up with many fancies. Very little of this hasa |
direct bearing on the question of the original location of
Kataha in Java, and I propose in the main to confine myself
as far as possible to this issue. The main conclusions for
which Mr. Moens contends in this part of hie paper may,
I think, be summarised as follows:

(1) The Andhra-Kalitga country on the east coast of
the Deccan was the homeland of many, if not all, of the
migrations which resulted in the establishment of Hindu
and Buddhist kingdoms in the Archipelago. The founders
of Taruma in West-Java, the dynasty of Miilavarman of
Koeti, and the Sailendras were among such emigrants.
The Andhra-Kalingadega was also the Kufjarakufijadeéa

20 P. 4a4.
21 BKI. sbid., p. op

136 K. A. NILAKANTA SASTRI

of the Cangal inscription of A.D. 732, the original home of
the ancestors of Safijaya.

(2) The causes of these migrations are to be sought in
the unsettled political conditions in India, and the dynastic
rivalries of the home-land may be traced in the politics of
the colonial states also.

(3) There were two Katahas—one in Java, Kedu-Kataha
where the Sailendras ruled for about a century anda half
from the close of the seventh century A.D. when they
migrated to Java from Sumatra (Palembang) as a result of
the hostile attacks of Srivijaya; from Kedu they migrated
in the middle of the ninth century tothe other Kataha in
the extreme south of the Malay peninsula and directly on
the sea-route from India to China.

(4) The second Kataha was also called San-fo-tsi and
this was the Kad@ram of the Tamil inscriptions. It lay on
the mainland of the Malay peninsula in the extreme south
on the estuary of the Johore river and on the bank of a
small tributary stream Kedaru.

(5) There were three San-fo-tsis at different periods viz.
(1) San-fo-tsi-Kadaram, (2) San-fo-tsi-Malayu and (3) San-fo-
tsi-Palembang, the two last being on the island of Sumatra.

Some of the points raised, like the proper interpretation
of the Arab accounts of Zabaj, have been omitted in this
summary as of no immediate concern here. I propose now
to offer a few observations on each of the five propositions
stated above, and then sum up the position relating to
Kataha in particular.

That the east coast of the Deccan took a prominent part
in colonisation of the eastern lands has long been recognised,
and for very good reasons. But the data relied on by Mr.
_ Moens for fresh support to this generally accepted position
do not seem to be of any value. What, for instance, is the
value of the argument” that the comparison of Sannaha to
Manu in verse 8 of the Cangal inscription is meant to be a

22 P. 434.

KATAHA 137

veiled allusion to the Manavya gotra to which Sannaha
belonged, like the Kadambas and other dynasties of the
Deccan? Or again, what is the probative value of the sup-
posed similarity”® between the foot-prints of Pirnavarman in
West-Java, and the idea underlying the phrase bappa-
bhattdraka-padabhaktah occurring in Salankayana grants,
and, though Mr. Moens does not mention it, in those of
several other families as well**? How can we believe,
without any further evidence, that there was a definite
relation, as suggested by Moens*® between Kaundinya and
the Visnukundins, or that Srigaila (Nagarjunakonda) and
Bukit Saguntang near Palembang and the Barabudur
represent a common idea?

But it is in his attempt to locate Kufijarakufijadeéga that
Mr. Moens goes clean off the track, and most of the other
errors into which he falls may perhaps be traced to this
initial mistake. He starts’® by declaring his intention to
remove from his path the common but mistaken view that
Salijaya practised the same Agastya-cult as the princes of
Dinaya in E. Java. ‘‘This hypothesis’’, he says, “supported
and worked out in detail primarily by Bosch, rests in
fact on nothing more than on the loose suggestion thrown
out by Kern that by Kufijarakufijadeéa might well be meant
the land of Kufjara, where ‘a mountain was created by
Siva, and the abode of the seer Agastya.’ This mountain :
lies on the boundary of Travancore and Tinnevelly in the
old Pandya land. Nilakanta Sastri bases on it even his
hypothesis that Safijaya might be a Pandya’. I can only
say that almost every scholar,”” as Moens is aware, who —
has had occasion to consider this question has been greatly
impressed by the validity of Kern's surmise and the support

23 P. 445.

24 Fleet, Gupta Inscriptions, P 186, 2. x.

25 Pp. 436-8. :

26. P. 426.

27 One of the latest is Dr. Chhabra. See IGE iy, dit,’ pp. 170]

138 K. A, NILAKANTA SASTRI

found for it by Bosch; and I do not yet see any reason to
retract my suggestion regarding the origin of the Sailendras.
Let us, however, follow the further stages of Moens’
argument.

He takes his stand on the absence of any direct
reference to Agastya worship in Safijaya’s Cangal inscrip-
tions, and says®: ‘If the land Kufijarakufija lay elsewhere
than in the locality postulated by Kern, then there would

remain nothing left of the role of Agastya as mediator

(between Divinity and Royalty) at Wukir.’

Thus he sets out to discover another location for
Kufijarakufijadega. He starts with the statements:
“‘Kufijarakufijadega, which means ‘land of the elephant's
tooth’, is, in my opinion, only a pseudonym (‘schuilnaam’)
for the original homeland of Sannaha and Safijaya, both
presumably also birudas for the true names of the princes.
The Sanskrit name for ‘ivory’ or ‘tooth’ is ‘danta’, and
Dantapura is the name of the famous old capital of the
Kalinga land of which we have spoken before, and where
Buddha's relic was worshipped with honours till it was
finally housed in Ceylon in 313 A.D. according to the
Siamese Buddhist Chronicles.”"” And then he passes to an
account of Buddhism in the Godavari-Krishna delta
country, which we need not follow here. There is no
doubt that KufijarakufijadeSa does mean ‘land of the
elephant’s tooth’, and in suggesting this meaning for the
phrase, Mr. Moens rejects, as he has a perfect right to do,
its usually accepted meaning viz., the elephant forest or
copse. But if Dantapura got its name from the original
enshrining of the tooth-relic of the Buddha in that city, it

28 He also states that with this hypothesis of the Agastya cult
of Safijaya is connected a misunderstanding of a Chinese text which
refers, not to a removal of the Javanese capital from Mataram to
Malang as is usually held, but to a change of centre from Kedah
to Baruas on the Malay peninsula. I do not wish to pursue this
side of the question here.

Bech ean ep lenin
is difficult to see how the elephant’s tooth or ivory gets into
the description of the land. The connection between
Kufjarakufija and Kufijaradari of the Brhatsamhitad seems
much more direct than that proposed by Moens between
Dantapura and Kufijarakuiija.

Of the detailed correlations which Moens seeks to estab-
lish between political events in the Deccan and the develop-
ments in the colonies, it is only fair to state that he is
himself conscious of the lack of definite evidence in favour
of the hypotheses he offers, and says**: ‘‘Naturally, a
great part of what follows must for the present remain only
hypotheses, for in the oldest history of the South Indian
Continent there still remain many gaps especially in its
chronology’. And the nature of the arguments on which
Moens relies for the hypotheses he puts forward has been
briefly indicated already. It is, moreover, not necessary
for the purpose of this paper to follow these historical
parallels between the history of South India and the
Archipelago at any length. That the east coast of South
India played a prominent partin the colonisation of the
East is generally acknowledged; geography suggests it,
and epigraphy, archzeology and literature furnish many
data in support of it. But Moens attempts to confine this
movement to the northern part of this coast, he lays
emphasis for instance on the -arnava endings in colonial
names to the almost total exclusion of -Varman endings,
and his claim to be able to trace the occasions and details
of this movement, have not carried conviction to me.
None of his hypotheses is impossible; but none rests on
any tangible evidence, And the total impression produced
by the whole string of them seems to be in essence a false
picture. : Ba

The third of the propositions relating to two Katahas is
also in the same boat. That the Sailendras ruled at first
in the neighbourhood of Palembang and were driven

2g P. 424.

140, K. A. NILAKANTA SASTRI
thence to Java at the end of the seventh century cannot yet
be proved. The earliest mention of the Sailendras occurs
indeed in Javanese inscriptions from Kedu, but the name
Kataha does not occur anywhere in them, and Moens has
not cited one single authority for his assumption that the
district of Kedu had the name Kataha. Again, the theory
that they migrated from this Kataha to another more direct-
ly on the sea-route from India to China in the south of
the Malay peninsula is just a hypothesis and nothing more.
Moens indeed promises to prove this when he says:*°
‘From the following demonstration it will become clear
that neither did the Sailendras of Java dominate Sumatra
in the heyday of their Buddhism, nor Srivijaya the Sai-
lendras of Java, but that the lordship of the Sailendras of
Kataha over Srivijaya first became possible, after they had
abandoned Java which lay out of the wey, for the empo-
rium which was located directly on the great maritime
trade route."” Butl am not able to find anything of the
nature of a convincing demonstration of this in the rest of
the article, but much that is based on the assumption put
forward in the sentence! have just cited. Again there is
much that is vague, uncertain and inconclusive in Moens’
view of Sailendra history. He admits that he cannot tell
how the -arnava dynasty of Java was displaced by the Sailen-
dras at the end of the seventh century. He says’ that
Sailendra power in Java lasted hardly a century and a half;
but we should observe that a century and a half is not such
a short period—the Mughal Empire in India did not last
longer, and the British Empire has not attained that age
yet. Then he says simply that something happened to put
an end to the direct power of the Sailendras in Java and
to place it under the rule of the successors of Safijaya. How
this happened, and why the Sailendras had to migrate to
the new Kataha-San-fo-tsi is left unexplained. Lastly the

5G 4 PuAI 7s MT,
3r P. 438.

KATAHA =,

interpretations he proposes for the verses of the Nalanda
copper-plate,*” though they are offered as interpretations
according to Eastern canons, are more ingenious than any-
thing known in Eastern commentaries, and seem to me to
be altogether misguided. But as they have no direct bear-
ing on the location of Kataha, | must not enter into a
discussion of them here, but must reserve them for another
occasion. Finally, Moens only reiterates his hypothesis when
he says:*° “‘In the light of the foregoing new standpoints
relating to the course of events, we must consider it practically
established that the Sailendras transferred the centre of
their power in the second half of the ninth century from
Java-Kataha to Malaka-Kataha.’’ I am unable so to con-
sider it, and | am equally unable to see that this hypothesis
is necessary to explain, as Moens seems to think it is,
Krom’s view that the Sailendra monuments of Java are not
those of a subject province, or Vogel's hypothesis of two
branches of Sailendras in this period, or the presence of
Malayan house-types on Sailendra monuments. :

When we come to the fourth proposition on the location
of Kataha-San-fo-tsi, Moens’. argument seems to stand on
much better ground,-though even here there are objections
of aserious nature in the way of an unreserved acceptance
of his conclusion. He says that he could not judge if
Ferrand’s phonetic objections’* to Qoedés’ identification
Kataha-Kedah are valid or not, but that he would show
that geographically they were two different places.°* He
then points out that Coedés’ general supposition, that men
often apply to a country the name of the first place they
come to while entering it, hasno application to the case
of Kataha-Kedah, because the Cola expedition was one;
not of exploration of an unknown land, but of conquest
of a known country. Surely this is not unknown to

32 Pp. 440-2. . 33:2. 446.
34 JA: 1919 Juil-Aout, PP. 181-2, ‘ :
35 Pp. 446-70 ae

142 K. A. NILAKANTA SASTRI

Coedés, and his obvious meaning is that whenever the
name Kataha came to be applied to the country, he does
not say it was first applied to it on the occasion of this
expedition, its origin might be explained in the manner
suggested by him. Moens then accepts the main results
of Goedés’ researches, viz., that the Chinese kingdom of
San-fo-tsi (of the Song annals) isthe same asthe double
kingdom of Kataha-Srivijaya of the Cola inscription, but
then he adds that Kataha was the sovereign state, and as
the Tamil inscription calls the kingdom only by the name
of Kadaram, we must accept without question the identity
of Kadaram with San-fo-tsi. He also points out that Zabaj
isnot the same as San-fo-tsi asis usually thought, but is
the equivalent of YAva and cites analogies for the suffix -~j
appearing in Arabic transliteration of geographical names.
All this is quite plausible though not conclusive.

But the arguments in favour of the location of Kadara-
San-fo-tsi at the extreme south of the Malaka peninsula
are notso satisfactory. The first of them is based on Abu
Zayd'’s statement regarding the capital of the kingdom of
the Maharaja that ‘it faces China’ which, according to
Moens,°® can only indicate a position on Malaka’s east
coast which is turned towards China, or at least on Malaka’s
southern point also turned towards China; it can in no
case be a place onthe West coast of Malaka.- But this
argument, it will be noticed, does not meet the position
that Srivijaya was the capital of the United Kingdom of
Kataha-Srivijaya, and that Srivijaya lay in the neighbour-
hood of Palembang. The data of Abu Zayd on the capital
of the kingdom of the Maharaja will fit this situation equally
well.

Moens*’ then draws attention to the text of Chu-ku-fei
regarding San-fo-tsi as an important thoroughfare on the
route from India to China, and explains his sailing direction

36 Pp. 450-1.
37 P. 461.

KATAHA 143

as ‘due north’ from there to China as due to the Chinese
misunderstanding of the true line of the Malaka peninsula,
and holds that this does not invalidate his location of San-
fo-tsi in the extreme south of the peninsula. He also says
that Chau Ju-Kua’s statement that the products of Arabia
were brought to San-fo-tsi and thence transhipped to China
must also refer to the southern end of the peninsula, as it
would be very roundabout to take Sumatra on the way to
China; and he applies the data of Chau Ju-Kua regarding
many people of San-fo-tsi bearing the surname Abu, and
the presence of books written in Arabic characters and so
on also to the same place.

But his chief argument rests on the Arabic data regard-
ing K. d. r. ng of about 850-950 A.D. He points out'*
that the Arab writers mention on the route to China the
seas of Kalahbar, Salahat, and Kadrang or Kadarang in
order. He argues strongly in favour of Kala being equated
with Kra. From Kra on the sea of Kalah-bar, to traverse
the whole of the sea of Salahat, it takes twenty days, and
the middle point of the journey is Betumah, which may be
identified with Butong island 6°. 30’ N.L. in the Langkawi
group, a little to the north of Penang; while Kadarang is no
other than Kadaram of the Tamil inscriptions equally distant
from Butong to the S.E. as Kra is to the N.E., and the sea
near it takes its name from the place. Again, Chau Ju-Kua’s
statement that a chain was stretched across the sea-route as
a barrier against pirates of other lands can apply only to
Kadaram at the southern extremity of the peninsula®*’. Again
another Chinese writer says that in 961 A.D., San-fo-tsi was
also called Sien-lieou, a name obviously shortened from
Sien-lo-yue, i.e. Seluyat of Arabs, and Lo-yue of Kia Fan.
Lastly, Moens argues*® that Lin-ya-mon which is reached
after a month’s journey from China and where, according to

38 Pp. 463-8. 7
39 P. 469. he
40 Pp. 470-1. |

144 K. A. NILAKANTA SASTRI

Chau Ju-Kua one-third of the merchants put in before enter-
ing San-fo-tsi, must be the eastern end of the Strait of
Singhapura. And this together with the names prevalent in
the locality like Kedaru and the presence of a hillock there
justify the location of the strongly guarded Kadadram in this
place.

lf this were all that had to be said, the argument of
Moens may be taken to be very plausible, and the case for
it could certainly not be considered weaker than many
others that have been generally accepted. But there are
two observations to be made on the data on which Mr.
Moens has built his argument. First, there seems to be no
absolute clearness or consistency in the names employed
by the Arabic writers to the different parts of the sea in
the East. Masiidi speaks for instance in one place*! of
the ‘numerous creeks formed by the sea of China on the
sides of Dj&waga and of the empire of the Maharaja, king
of these isles’. One naturally begins to be sceptical about
logical demonstrations based on data selected from writings
of such a vague and contradictory character. Secondly, the
reading Betuma on which Moens depends for identifying
it with the Butong island seems to be antiquated and
wrong; [ am not competent to judge of Arabic texts, but
as Moens is aware, Ferrand who compared and studied all
the geographical texts relating to the Far East thought
definitely” that Reinaud’s transcription Betourmah was a
mistake, and that the correct reading should be Tiyima,
and he also notes** that Ibn Al-Fakih’s text has the reading
Tuyiima for Tiyma. But above all, there seem to be
serious difficulties in the way of Kadarang being taken to
be the same as Kadaram. The identification of this place
again has been specially studied by Ferrand, and Pelliot

4x Ferrand—Relations, p. 107.
42 Relations, p. 40, n. 2.

43 Lbid., p. 58, nm. 6,

KATAHA 145
before him.** Kia-Tan locates the mountain of Kiun-tu-
nong at a distance of two days from Panduranga, and says
that five days were needed to sail from there to the straits
of Malaka. Again the T’ang annals state that Che-li-fo-che
(Srivijaya, Palembang) is ata distance of 2000 li beyond
this mountain. From these data Pelliot was inclined to
identify this place with island group of Puolo Condore off
the south-eastern coast of Cochin-China. That the
mountain was the most important feature of this place is
clear from the statement of Sulayman’: ‘At Kundrang
is a high mountain to which sometimes slaves and robbers
fly for refuge.” Likewise Ibn Al-Fakih: ‘We find (at
Kundrang) a high mountain (which dominates the others).’
This high mountain seems to be hardly represented by

anything near the location proposed for Kadaram by Moens,

or even, it must be admitted, in Puolo Condore or Cape St.
Jaques with which Ferrand is inclined to identify
Kundarang. Itis possible that Moens does not think that
Kiun-tu-nong of Kia Tan and the T’ang annals has anything
to do with K. D. R. Neg of the Arabic writers; if that be so,
it is somewhat intriguing that, with the previous literature

on the subject before him, he did not expressly state this |

view with his reasons for it.

The last of the propositions relating to three San-fo-tsis
at Kadaram, Malayu and Palembang, I need not discuss
here in any detail, as it has no direct bearing on the location
of Kataha whichis the main theme of this paper.- The
conclusions that seem to emerge from this rather long and
intricate discussion seem to be: that no case has been
made for recognising the Kedu plain as the original Kataha
from which the Sailendras migrated to another place of the
same name; and that the case for locating Kadaram in the
neighbourhood of modern Singapore on the mainland is

no better than that for pipers. tin the neighbourhood of

44 See Fertand-—Relations, PP ey
45 Ibid., p. a

Se nesses
146 K. A. NILAKANTA SASTRI

Kedah. It may be added that the identification of San-fo-
tsi with Kadaram alone in the double kingdom of Kadaram-
Srivijaya, and the application exclusively to it of the data
of Chu-ku-fei and Chau Ju-kua also call for much stronger
justification than has been offered by Moens for them.

Some Indian paralleis of Lokesvara types
In Indo-China

By Dr. U. N. GuosHar

In his illuminating paper entitled Loke¢vara en Indo-
Chine (Etudes Asiatiques, t. 1, pp. 227 ff), the late M. Finot
made a thorough study of the iconographic types of this
deity in Camp& and Cambodia. The progress of research
since its publication makes it desirable to trace the Indian
affinities of these types somewhat further than could be
done in the paper just mentioned. _

From Finot’s description it appears that the Indo-
Chinese images of Lokeégvara may be iconographically
arranged under the following heads:

(1) Lokegvara with two arms

To this class belong (a) two stone images preserved
in the Tourane Museum (Finot, p. 234). They show
Lokeévara with two broken fore-arms resting upon two
supports, a figure in the chignon and a frontal eye; (b)a
small stone image in the Hanoi Museum. It represents
Lokeévara standing, with two arms, left broken, right |
holding flask, Amitabha in coiffure (Ibid, p. 234); (c) the
bronze image in the temples at Binh-thuan representing
Lokeévara with two arms holding an ewer and a lotus
(Ibid, p. 235); (d) Lokegvara group on Nak Pan pediments, —
the god standing between two personages with right hand
throwing water from his flask upon the hands of a worship-
per and left hand making a gesture (mudra) towards a —
person bearing two jars of water (Ibid, p. 248). Similar
images of Lokeévara are found onthe seven pediments of
Krol Ké and also in the Ta Som temple and the small
shrine east of Ta Prohm (Ibid, PP: (249-250) ; ; and (e) ‘‘Pre-
khmer’ Lokeévara from the province of Rach-gié (ib

148 U.N. GHOSHAL

p- 238). This hastwo arms, left closed with a lotus-bud
and right opening for showing lotus flower.

(2) Lokegvara with four arms

Under this category may be mentioned (a) a bronze
image from Quang-tri, now preserved in Hanoi Museum.
The four arms of the image hold lotus, flask, conch (>)
and rosary (ibid, p. 234); (b) the bronze image in the two
temples at Binh-Thuaén (Ibid, p. 235); (c) terra cotta
medallions of Quang-binh (Ibid, p. 235). In these Lokegvara
is seated in mahd@r@ja-lil@ with four arms, the upper right
supporting the head; (d) a stone image recovered from

the ruins from Bayon by M. Parmentier (Ibid, p. 246, pl. V).
Here Lokeévara stands upon :Jotus, Amitabha in chignon,
the four arms holding lotus. flask, book and rosary ; fe) two
seated figures at Nak Pan with four arms, one of which

holds a book (Ibid, p. 248).

(3) Lokegvara with eight arms

To this class belongs (a) the great image at Don Tei,
the right arm holding a book (all others broken), the left |
holding rosary, cakra, vajra, lotus (>), sword, image of
Buddha, etc. (b) On certain votive caityas lying between:
the Angkor Thom and Bant&y Chmiar sites. Here the god
has eight arms of which six hold lotus, rosary, book (twice 2),
arrow, ankuga, while the two lowermost arms are in
varamudra (Ibid, p. 254) |

As for the first group it may be mentioned that the
lotus held in closed left hand and that the same flower
exhibited with open petalsin the right hand are exactly
the attributes of the second variety of Rakta-Lokeévara
described in three Sddhanamala MSS. utilised by Dr.
. Benoytosh Bhattacharya in his Buddhist Indian Iconogrphy.
The text of the dhyana of this deity as quoted by Dr.
Bhattacharya runs as follows (op. cit., p. 46) :—‘‘Raktavar-
rinam Amitabhagarbhajatamukutadharam vamakaragrhi-
taraktapadmam tacca daksinakarena vikasayantam.......”

IGIS., 1938. Plate

PI. I. Sculptural fragment from Nak Pan, Cambodia. [Reproduced from
L. Finot’s article, Lekeguara en Indo-Chine, Etudes
Asiatiques, I, Pl 23, fig. 6, with the
kind permission of the French

School of the Far East.]

[To face page 56.|
SOME INDIAN PARALLELS OF LOKESVARA TYPES 149

Dr. Bhattacharya, after taking. ks above: to mean that
the god should carry the red lotus in the left hand and open
its petals with the right, admits (p. 47 n) that ‘vikagayan-
tam’ in the above may also mean ‘exhibiting’, in which
case the god would have the lotus in both of his hands.
The pre-Khmér Lokeévara from the province of Rach-gid
mentioned under class | (e) shows that the latter is the
correct interpretation. In the work above-mentioned Dr.
Bhattacharya was unable to discover any actual representa-
tion of the Rakta-Lokeégvara type. The Cambodian i image,
however, offers such a specimen.

Of the group of four-armed images, the one from Bayon
with the lotus, rosary, flask and book may be compared
with that of Milavasa-Lokanatha of Daksinadpatha which
is twice illustrated in Foucher’s Catalogue Nos. 25 and 27
(App. I, Etude sur.1° Iconographie Bouddhique de I’ Inde).
The description of this figure by Foucher is as follows—
(Ibid, p. 194) : No. 25, “‘Daksinadpathe Mil (?)pavasa
Lokan&athah 4risasthana. Bodh. blanc, debout, 4 quatre
bras: 1° inférieurs: m. d. en geste qui assure, m. g.
tenant le lotus et le facon: 2° gee a m. d. tenant
le rosaire. m. g. le livre...’’. - 27: Daksinapathe
Milavasa-Lokanathah: Identique 4 ao min. I 25. sauf le rosaire
de la m. supérieure d. oublié. Slightly different from the
above is the figure (Foucher, op. cit. No. 36). labelled
Dandabhuktau Yajfiapindi-Lokanathah, whose description
(Ibid, p. 196) is as follows: Bodh. blanc, & quatre bras: 1°
inférieurs: m.d.en charité, m. g. tenant le flacon (2),
2° supérieurs: m. d. tenant le rosaire, m. g- le lotus rose...””.
Probably the Indo-Chinese steles with lotus, rosary, book
and indistinct object belong to the same class. Among
the 108 forms of Avalokiteévara represented in the
Macchandar Vihal of Kathmandu, there is none which is

exactly similar to the above. But we have one form (No. a sae

12) which approaches the same. This is known as Jatamukuta |
Lokeévara. In this form the god has one head with the
effigy of Amitabha appearing above ane has four’ arms, ee

8

150 U. N. GHOSHAL

upper right holding rosary, the lower right in varamudra,
the upper left alotus stalk, and the lower left a water-pot.
(B. Bhattacharya, Buddhist Indian Iconography, p. 178 and
pl. XLV).

The Indo-Chinese type of four-armed images with rosary,
book, vara and bhimisparga mudra has no match in any
Indian example. But the Eastern Indian School knows a
type with the attributes rosary, book, vara and lotus type (see
R. D. Banerji, Eastern Indian School of mediaeval sculpture,
p. 88 and the references there given). The same type is
represented in Foucher’s Catalogue 1,23 under the caption
Suvarnnapure Srivijayapure Lokanathah drisasthina. This
is described as follows (op. cit., p. 193):—Bodh. blanc,
debout, & quatre bras: 1° inférieurs: m. d.en charité,
m. g. repliée tenant le lotus; 2° supérieurs: m. d. tenant
le rosaire, m. g, le livre; 4 sa d. autre lotus...”’.

A slightly different type is known to the Eastern School
with the attributes rosary, vara, kamandalu and lotus (See
Kramrisch, Pala and Sena Sculptures, pl. XLVIII).

Of the Indo-Chinese type of Lokegvara with eight arms,
it has not been found possible to observe an Indian parallel.

MISCELLANY

The Rastrapalanataka of Asvaghosa
By Dr. E, H. JoHNsTon

An interesting note by Pandit Vidhushekhara Bhatta-
charya in Journal, V, pp. 50ff., draws attention to the
mention in the Vadanyadya (JBORS, xxi, Pt. 1V; p. 67, not
p- 63) of a play with this title by Aévaghosa, but the signi-
ficance of the reference can only be understood by reading
with it the late Professor 5S. Lévi’s account of the play
from the Chinese in Journal Asiatique, 213 (1928), pp.199-
204. He quoted an extract from the Fu fa tsang yin yiian
ch’ tian (Taisho Issaikyo edn., L, 2058), which was translated
into Chinese about 472 A.D. It relates how Aévaghosa’
composed a piece of music called ‘Rastrapala,’ in the
words to which he treated of duhkha, éinya, nairdimya.
In it he said’, ‘‘Everything samskrta is as an illusion or a
phantasmagoria. The three spheres of existence [i.e.
dhatus] are a prison in which one is bound, and it is im-
possible to be happy there. The situation of a_ king
appears lofty; he is powerful and free to do as he likes.
But kingship is impermanent ; who can retain it, when the
fatal day arrives? It is like a cloud in the sky, scattered
and destroyed ina moment. The body is empty and pith-
less like a banana-tree; it is an enemy, a robber, and
cannot become an intimate friend. It is like a cage [? a
pot] full of poisonous snakes; who can love it or take
delight init 2? This is the reason why the Buddhas have
ever impeached the body.’’ This music proved beyond
the capacity of those to whom it was given for execution.
Thereon Aégvaghosa donned white robes and assumed the

1 I translate Lévi’s version, —

152 E. H. JOHNSTON

leadership of the orchestra, on which the performance
became perfect. In the sequel five hundred Ksatriyas were
so affected by it that they entered the Order, and the king
of Pataliputra, fearful that their example would be generally
followed and his kingdom depopulated, forbade the play
ever to be acted again. Professor Lévi then went on to
point out that a similar story is told in a Jaina text, the
Pindaniryukti, verses 474-480, as elaborated by the com-
mentator, Malayagiri, where the play has the same name,
but the author is called Asadhabhiti.

In dealing with Aégvaghosa’s works in the introduction
to my translation of the Buddhacarita, I did not discuss
the question whether he had ever written such a play,
because no text of the play was extant for consideration
and there was no proof then that the story in the Chinese
work was more than one of the many legends that have
clustered round the name of the Buddhist poet. It seemed
to me significant for instance that his poems show no spe-
cial interest in, or knowledge of, music. 1 should perhaps
have given more attention to the description of the verses,
which read almost like extracts from the Buddhacarita or
the Saundarananda; Aévaghosa, as I have pointed out else-
where, tends to repeat the same ideas and arguments in
his works. Thus, compare with the extract given above
such phrases as Saundarananda, v, 45, parigamya lokam
madyopamam citram=ivendrajalam, Buddhacarita, xi, 45ff.,
the passage about the insecurity and lack of happiness in
kingship which begins afd nrpatve‘bhyadhikeii, ib., xxviii,
15 (Acta Or., xv, p. 114 of reprint), ‘like snakes which
have been confined in ajar’; this list could easily be
extended,

These coincidences suggest that the author of the
original, from which the Chinese translation was made,
may have known a genuine drama about Rastrapala by
Aévaghosa, and in this connection some curious features
of the Vaddanydya passage should be observed. It ends
Kidrsam RastrapGlam nama nadtakam iti prasangam krtod
THE RASTRAPALANATAKA OF ASVAGHOSA 153

ndndyanie tatah pravigati sittradhGra iti pathen-nrtyed-gayec-
ca/prativadi tam ca sarvaprasangam naénukartum samartha-
iti parajitah syaGt. Evidently this implies that the vddin
repeats the whole play with appropriate action, and for
such a purpose woulda play have been chosen for illus-
tration which did not actually exist > Further the reference
to singing, which would not necessarily be required for
reciting the text of many plays, is suggestive in view of the
account of the performance given in the Chinese translation.
Finally, it appears from Buddhacarita, xxi, 26 (Acta Or.,
xv, p. 96 of reprint), that the poet held the story of Rastra-
pala’s conversion to be one of the outstanding incidents
of the Buddha’s mission. There is thus much to be said
for the view that Agvaghosa did write a play about Rastra-
pala, which is no longer extant.

A further point of interest for the history. of the drama
is the fact that, as in the MSS. of the plays discovered of
recent years in the Madras Presidency, the passage of the
Vddanydya makes the play begin with the stage direction
nandyante, etc.

Epigraphic Notes

By Dr. DINEs CHANDRA SIRCAR

I. Phnom Préh Vihdr Inscription of the time of Bhava-

varman(")

This record in Sanskrit verse describes the activities of a
Pa&gupatécarya named Vidyapuspa who is called Kavi and
Sabda-vaisesika-nydya-tattuartha-krta-nigcaya. Verses 6 and
7 of the record say about the Saiva saint:

tatas=sa niskraman=nGna-
tirth-Gyana-parvvatan 3
Kathani=cid= Gnita iha
svapn-anie sri-trigalina.
YathG pradargitam svapne
drstavdn=iha $ankaram;
lingam padam gospadafi=ca
bhasma tungigaparvvate.

The seventh verse has been thus translated by Coedés:
“Il vit (ensuite) ici, tels qu’il les avait vus en songe, le linga
de Sankara, le pied, la flaque d’eau et Ia cendre sur le
(mont) Tungigaparvvata”’ (*). In a footnote on the word
pied in the translation, he further suggests, ‘‘pada, ‘empre-
inte du pied’, ou peut-étre ‘séjour, demeure’ (de Siva?)’’

The verse appears to mean that the place, previously
shown to Vidyapuspa by Siva in a dream was recognised by
him by the presence of a Sivalinga and some signs indicating
the lord’s presence, such as pada (i.e. Siva's pada-cihna),
gospada (i.e. padacihna of the lord's carrier Nandin, gener-
ally called Nandipada) and bhasma (ashes which the lord
rubs on his body).’’

1 Inscriptions du Cambodge, éditées et traduites par G, Cordes,
Hanoi, 1937, tome. 1, p. 4.
EPIGRAPHIC NOTES 155

Hl. Tah Kran Inscription of Jayavarman 1 (°)
Verse 4 of this partially mutilated record in Sanskrit
verse describes King Jayavarman as:

adhadrmmika-jana-dhvadntam

nav~-odita-vivasvatd;

G@-kdficipura-nrpad *

dire a Fe
It is however difficult to be definite on this point as the
fourth foot of the verse is almost totally lost and as the rela-
tion of Kdficipura or akGficipura with the context cannot be
determined. But Coedés’s reading of the sixth syllable of
the third foot as nr, is admittedly doubtful. We think that
the metre requires here nota laghu syllable like nr,—but
a guruone. The facsimile appears to suggest the reading
bha*, and the word may be bhipdalam.

The next two verses of the record introduce to us a

learned Brahmana named Dharmasvamin and read:

atr= dsid=v (b) rahmano vidvan

veda-vedé|[nga|-paragah;

dharmmasvam=iti v[i] khydtas=

sla] ks[@]d=dharmma [iv= dparah*].(*)

agr-dsano narendraénam

Sri[r=*] ya(a) syalpya*] Agato bahih;

antahkarana-saudhe tu

: vinyasta yena bhdrati.

Coedés doubtfully reads the second foot of the last verse as
$ri yapya* ggto bahih or as griyasya* angato (or angino),
and corrects the word agr-dsano as agr-dsane which how-
ever appears to be unnecessary. His translation of the verse
is : “Il a (chassé?), hors de ......, la Fortune des (autres) rois
(placés) sur un tréne eminent, mais il a installé l'Eloquence
dans la palais de son Goeur."" The verse, however, seems to

3 Ibid., p. 8 £.
4 The restoration of the lost syllables here as iv=dparab seems to
me beyond doubt. — .

156 DINES CHANDRA SIRCAR

mean that Dharmmasvamin who enjoyed an eminent seat
in all company, had rdjagriin his appearance, though in his
heart dwelt Sarasvati, Sri’s rival.

Il. Phnom Badydn Inscription of Bhavavarman II (*)

This mutilated record in Sanskrit verse appears to belong
to the middle of the seventh century A.D. Verse 23 of the
record reads:
soma-vansya-prasii[ta] nam

* *  lopam= akurvvata;
Sri-kongavarmma * #* ddh

Coedés points out that the peculiar name Kongavarman is
not found in the inscriptions of Cambodge. It is interesting
to note that similar names are found in the south-western
part of Peninsular India in inscriptions of about the same
period. There was a province called Kongudega in this
part of the country, and the name Kongani, Konkani or
Konguni was quite a favourite with the Ganga royal family
of Mysore. The seventh century Ganga King Durvinita had
the name Konganivrddha, while his father’s name was
Avinita-Kongani. A prince named Kongavarman is found
in the genealogy of the Kadambas of Banavasi in the North
Kanara District. He was the son of Mayiiragarman who
founded the Kadamba family about the middle of the fourth
century A.D. Does the name of Kongavarmman of the
Phnom Bayan inscription connect him in any way with the
south-western part of Peninsular India?

5 Ibid., p. 252 £.
OBITUARY
MR. N. G. MAJUMDAR

The Managing Committee of the Greater India Society
records with deep sorrow the untimely death under most
tragic circumstances of Mr. N. G, Majumdar, a most valued
member of the Committee and one of the most brilliant
products of the modern school of archaeclogy in India.
He was engaged, as Special Officer for Exploration of the
Archaeological Survey of India, in a survey of the pre-
historic sites of the Indus civilisation when he was mur-
dered on the IIth November, 1938 by a gang of armed
robbers near Johi in the Dadu district of Sind.

After completing his studies at the Calcutta University
with high honours, Majumdar joined the staff of the Post-
Graduate department of the University in the branch of
Ancient Indian History and Culture. He had already by
this time made his mark as a keen student. of Indian archaeo-
logy by the publication of his articles in the Indian Anti-
quary and the Epigraphia Indica and specially of his im-
portant List of Kharosthi inscriptions in the Journal of the
Asiatic Society of Bengal. Appointed Curator of the
Varendra Research Society’s Museum at Rajshahi, he dis-
tinguished his term of office by producing an important
work called the Inscriptions of Bengal, II. His remarkable
talents singled him out for appointment in the Archaeolo-
gical Survey of India which he joined in 1927, after receiv-
ing his preliminary training on the Mohenjo Daro site under
the watchful eyes of Sir John Marshall. His further explo-
rations of pre-historic sites in the Sind area bore fruit in his
highly important work, Explorations in Sind, which was:
published as a Memoir of the Archaeological Survey of
India. Promoted to the post of Superintendent of the
Archaeological Section of the Indian Museum: in Calcutta,
he published two valuable Guides to the collection under

9
a

158 OBITUARY

his charge, and he carried out a number of very fruitful
excavations on various sites, such as Lauriya Nandangarh,
Kosam, Durgapur and Mahasthangarh. He also edited a
large number of Brahmi and Kharosthi inscriptions which
have thrown a flood of light on a number of complicated
problems of Indian history. Among other works from his
learned and busy pen may be mentioned a valuable chapter
on the Copper coins in the Stapa Area in Marshall's
Mohenjo-Daro and the Indus Civilisation, and a chapter on
the Sanchi inscriptions for the forthcoming publication of
the Archaeological Department entitled the Monuments of
Sanchi.

Majumdar’s high merits as a scholar won him his deserv-
ed recognition from many quarters. He. was elected a
Fellow of the Royal Asiatic Society of Bengal in 1933 and
President of the History section of the Bengali Literary
Conference at Patna in 1937. His charming manners won
him the love and esteem of all those who had the privilege
of coming into his contact.”

* Based on a paper written by Mr. T. N. Ramachandran, M.A,
Superintendent of the Archaeological Section at the Indian Museum,
for the Royal Asiatic Society of Bengal, __
NOTICES OF BOOKS

Aanwinsten op ethnografisch en anthropologisch gebied
van de afdeeling Volkenkunde van het Koloniaal Instituut
over 1937, Koninklijk Koloniaal Instituut te Amsterdam,
Med. No. XLIV, Afd. Volk. No. I].

This description of acquisitions to the Royal Colonial
Institute at Amsterdam for 1937 is from the pen of Messrs.
J. Kunst and F. W. Stammeshaus, Conservator and Adjunct-
conservator respectively in the section of ethnology at
the Colonial Institute. The acquisitions are described
according to serial number which runs from 1087-1174. No.
1088 consists of a collection of ethnographica from South-
New-Guinea, whereof a ceremonial proa, employed in
totemistic religious festivities, is very interesting. Of great
interest are the forty-four neolithic arrowheads and twenty-
four palzolithic implements from Pacitan, East-Java, des-
cribed under no. 1098, 1-68. In the same connexion are
also described twenty palzeolithic implements found in
the vicinity of Solo in the same geological stratum as that
wherein Dubois discovered the skull of Pithecanthropos
erectus. These paleolithic objects, however, according to
the authors, originated with a contemporary but more pro-
gressive race. The giftsof Messrs. R. A. H. Arntz and _
J. H. Mulder are described under no. 1100, whereof 30 a/e
consists of five (old?) Balinese lontar MSS., derived from
Bali, giving informations about some officers. The MSS.
may be important from the historical point of view and
should be examined. Under no. 1103, the authors describe
a collection of paintings, sketches, plastic and ethnographi-
ca from Bali, whereof the death of Abhimanyu (Canto xiv
from the Bratajuda), drawn by Ida Bagoes Gilgil may be
singled out for special mention. Mr. F. Lieftinck J. Hzn.
presented to the Institute a kidung on lontar, called Tutur
160 NOTICES OF BOOKS

Mpu Devaraja Bréma, in which the said teacher gave all
sorts of instructions to his disciple Balanatha. The MS.
is described under no.1141 and was derived from Bali. But
perhaps the most important acquisitions to the Institute
are the coins from the Indian Archipelago and South-East
and East Asia which are described under nos. 1144, 1-87,
88-733. Various Asiatic and European coins are also men-
tioned in that connexion (nos. 734-896). The coins of the
Indian Archipelago belong to various periods : six are silver
Hindu-Javanese md-coins, twenty-three bronze Hindu-Java-
nese (so-called) temple coins (presumably used as votive-
coins), six very rare tin doits, etc. The Chinese ‘coins’
range from 1760 B. C. and represent all Chinese periods.

The Report contains an index of indigenous words.
To the scholars interested in the subject the Register of
origin and grouping of the objects will be extremely help-
ful and this practice should be followed in the Indian
Archeological Reports.

H. B. SarRKAR

Enkele metingen en Volume-bepalingen aan Neder-
landsche en Papoesche schedels, Koninklijk Koloniaal
Instituut te Amsterdam, Med., no. XLVI, Afd. Volk. No.
12, by Prof. Dr. J. P. Kierwec DE Zwaanen Dr. A. J. van
BORK-FELTKAMP, Amsterdam 1938.

The present monograph, written by two well-known
ethnologists, contains the result of accurate studies on the
measurement and capacity of Dutch and Papuan skulls.
The materials utilised by the joint-authors comprise 119
Dutch skulls, whereof 69 are male and 50 female, and 129
Papuan skulls, besides 474 upper jaws of Dutch persons of
unknown sex. Of these skulls, the greatest length and
breadth have been measured, the cranial and orbital capa-
city have been determined and various skull-indices cal-
culated. A number of measurements on the upper jaws
were taken according to the method of Martin; in the
NOTICES OF BOOKS = ae

determination of the capacity of the Dutch skulls and that
of the Papuan crania, the authors have followed the
method, and used the apparatus, of Th. Mollison in his
Hohlraammessung und Volumbestimmung, Anthropologis-
cher Anzeiger, VIII, 1932. The authors have tried to
establish a number of points, in which the comparative
estimate of Dutch.male and female skulls and Dutch and
Papuan skulls appears to be interesting. It has been
found, for example, that the greatest length and breadth
of Dutch skulls are usually noticed among the males,
that among the Dutch skulls the percentage of mesocephalic
skulls is extraordinarily great but the brachycephalic
ones bear the largest cranial capacity. The Papuan
skulls are, on the other hand, smaller and narrower
than the Dutch skulls. The percentages work out as
follows : of the Dutch skulls, 36°13% are brachycephalic,
48'74% are mesocephalic and 15°13% dolichocephalic;
of the Papuan skulls, 4°65% are brachycephalic, 16°3%
are mesocephalic and 791% are dolichocephalic. The
dimensions of the upper jaw were, on the other hand,
generally larger in the Papuan skulls than in the Dutch
skulls. Some ‘of the conclusions drawn by the authors
differ from those of Prof. Bolk, who noted, for example,
that the greatest skull-capacity is found in the cranial in-
dices which are most frequent. This view is not borne out
by the scrutiny of our authors, whose method of measure-
ment of skull-capacity differs from that of Prof. Bolk.

The work has entailed considerable labour on the part of
the authors and has been written with extreme care. The
diagrams have greatly enhanced the value of the book.

H. B. SaARKaR
Anteekeningen bij het Qud-Javansche Bhismaparwa By
J. GonpA, Bibliotheca Javanica, 7a, Bandoeng, 1937.

The tract under review is a supplement to the text-edi-
tion of the Old-Javanese Bhigmaparva by Dr. Gonda, The
162 NOTICES OF BOOKS

critical edition of the Sanskrit Bhisma’ is still a great desi-
deratum, and Dr. G.’s work, though it has admirably handled
the existing printed materials, has not been able to make
use of a critical edition of the Sanskrit Mahabharata which
alone can determine the source from which the Old-Javanese
redactor drew his materials. The Southern recension of the
Sanskrit Bhisma® by P.P.S. Sastri appeared rather late: Dr.
Gonda did not therefore find it possible to make an exhaus-
tive use of the materials for comparison contained in the
Old-Javanese and Southern versions of the Sanskrit text.
The work of Dr. G,, however, will certainly lessen the
labours of the Poona redactors, so far as the sixth book of
the Mahabharata is concerned. The plan of this work is this,
that he has given, on the one hand, a summary of the Old-
Javanese text, and on the other, a critical apparatus of
Sanskrit and Old-Javanese texts, comparing the materials
contained in Javanese and various Sanskrit versions of the
sixth book. The author admits however (p. 39 n. and else-
where) that the text-comparisons, given in the book, bear a
provisional character and that in furture critical comparison,
these text-comparisons would be superseded by the readings
of the Mahabharata recensions. When a critical edition
of the Skt. Bhisma® appears, the time would be very
opportune to undertake an investigation on the lines
of Wulff in his Den oldjavanske Wirdtaparwa og dens
Sanskrit-original (1916) and Hazeu in his Het Oudjavansche
Adiparwa en zijn Sanscrit original (1901).

Comparison of the text commences from p. 4 f. of the
tract under review. Dr. G. first discusses p. 65, IV, adhy,
43-44; 1533-1669, and his treatment is very thorough. In
concluding his studies on this portion of the text, he remarks
(ibid, p.6} that in this chapter, in spite of general agreement,
there are great many differences in detail. This summing-
up of the results of study on particular chapters, though very
much desirable, is not generally to be met with in other por-
tions of the book. On p. 31 ff. the author draws our atten-
tion to a very significant phenomenon, viz., the death of
NOTICES OF BOOKS 163

Bhigsma and the burning of his mortal remains, which are
not mentioned in Old-Javanese text. Dr. G. thinks it possible
however that after his downfall, Bhisma lived for some time
more and inculcated, as the Old-Javanese Bhisma’ puts it,
the judicious exercise of kingship. This brief passage brings
him to the problems of the 12th and [3th books of the
Mahabharata as parts of the Corpus Mahabharata; and his
reasonings are sound and very interesting. We hope he will
further work up this point. Chap. II of this book deals with
the cosmographic episode in the Old-Javanese Bhisma’,
which he deems to be “‘of great importance for the history
of the Indian epic.’ The episode belongs to those parts of
which a thorough comparison with the parallel texts is
possible. For the dicussion of this topic, he gathers a wealth
of materials from the Mahabharata and the Puranas, and
modifies, elaborates and supplements the studies of Dr.

Hilgenberg in this field.
} H. B. Sarkar

W. L, Steinhart, Niassche Teksten, Verhandelingen van
het Koninklijk Bataviaasch Genootschap van Kunsten en
Wetenschappen, deel LX XIII, Bandoeng, 1937.

Mr. Steinhart, a Protestant missionary of the Lutheran
Society, has edited with Dutch translation and notes the
Nias-texts under review, of which the first two cantos were
published in TBG., LXXIV (1934), p. 326 &. and 391 €. He
has also thankfully recognised the assistance he has receiv-
ed from Dr. Esser, whose valuable notes he has utilised here
and there. The author’s own notes have also been very
carefully written, andthe students who wish to learn the
language will find the book an excellent guide; they will
appreciate the rhythm of the original verses, partly reflected
in the Dutch rendering of the texts. The work will prove
interesting to all lovers of ethnology and folklore, as it
throws considerable light on the manners and customs of
the Nias-population.

oH B, SARKAR |
164 NOTICES OF BOOKS

F.H. Gravely and T.N. Ramachandran, Three Main
Styles of Indian Temple Architecture (Bulletin of the
Madras Government Museum, New Series—-General Section,
Vol. IH, Pr. 1). Published by the Superintendent, Govern-
ment Press, Madras, 1-26 pp., Pls. 1-2.

F. H. Gravely, An Outline of indian Temple Archirec-
ture (Bulletin of the Madras Government. Museum Pt. Il).
Published, October, 1936, 1-22 pp. and Pl. 1.

These are two useful Bulletins of the Madras Museum,
published some time ago. The first is a dissertation on
the three main styles of Indian temple architecture recog-
nised by the Silpagdstras, while the second one deals with
an outline of Indian temple architecture, thus being some
sort of a complement to the first.

The Bulletin first mentioned corrects some misconcep-
tions already prevailing about the characteristic features
of the three principal styles of temple architecture, viz.,
Naégara, Vesara and Drdvida. Fergusson, in his monu-
mental work on Indian and Eastern Architecture, distin-
guished between three chief temple-types designated by
him as Indo-Aryan or Aryavarta, Calukyan and Dravidian;
these divisions were more or less based by him on
particular modes of such structures to be found in different
well-marked localities like Aryavarta, the Western Deccan
and the Eastern and Southern Deccan. He does not seem
to have used the technical names laid down in the Silpa-
gdstras, such as the work of Sri Kumara, Suprabhedadgama,
and the Manasara, which terms according to scholars would
fit in with his own divisions; thus, his Indo-Aryan or
Aryavarta, Calukyan and Dravidian would correspond to
Nagara, Vesara and Dravida respectively. Fergusson’s
criterion for distinguishing between these types was
defective inasmuch as he laid too great a stress on the ethnic
element. Havell, in his study of the ancient and mediaeval
architecture of India, criticised the classification of Fer-
gusson and pointed out that a slight difference in the
ground-plans of the shrines would constitute different

meine mE gee

NOTICES OF BOOKS 165

temple-types. He also remarked, on the authority of Ram
Raz, that according to the Mdnasdra, the technical name
of a square shrine was Ndgara, that of an octagonal one,
Dravida, and that of a circular one, Vesara. He, however,
was of opinion that the ‘entire planning and every other
structural and symbolic detail’ of the pyramidal monaster-
ies were based on Indo-Aryan ideas imported from the
north. Coomaraswamy discussed the point at some length
in his History of Indian and Indonesian Art and proved
the unity of Indian temple (vimana), though there were
“provincial variations in its formal development, existing
side by side with the secular variation in pure style’. He
criticised Fergusson’s sectarian classification as of an entirely
misleading character and pointed out that ‘Mdnasdra’s
clear distinction of Visnu and Siva temples followed by
Havell and Diez can not be recognised in medizval
practice’. He proved, however, that both the Nagara and
Dravida styles designated towers ‘rising above the garbha-
grha of a temple, the chief difference being that the Nagara.
type comes to have a curvilinear form and forms a real
spire, while the Drdvida retains its original terraced forma-
tion with ranges of cells at each level’. P. K. Acharya
in his Dictionary of Hindu Architecture explains the passage
in MdanasaGra on which Ram Raz’s statement, as quoted by
Havell, is based, thus, ‘The Ndgara style is distinguished
by its quadrangular shape, the Vesara by its round shape,
and the Dravida by its octagonal or hexagonal shape’.
The joint authors of the present work have correctly shown
that a proper interpretation of the original in Manasdra
as edited by Acharya, on which the above statements are
based, clearly proves that the latter are incorrect. The
Silpagastras including the Suprabheddégama and Manasdra
really lay down that the N@gara temple-type is characteri-
sed by the quadrangular character of the Vimdna all
throughout, the Vesara one by a Vimdna crowned bya
circular éikhara above the neck, while the Dravida bya
Vimana crowned by an octagonal or hexagonal éikhara.
166 NOTICES OF BOOKS

above the neck; the M@nasGra alludes to an ‘apsidal form
in the case of both the Vesara and the Drdvida styles, but
not of the Nagara’. The authors have, in this connection,
rightly discussed the geographical origin of these three
terms and have criticised the findings of P. K. Acharya
who also studies this question thoroughly. There is no
difficulty about explaining the geographical association of
the Dravida type; but to associate Ndgara and Vesara with
northern India (the land of the Nagari alphabet) and with
the Telugu country respectively, as has been done by
Acharya, is unjustifiable according to the authors. They
propound that even though the association of the first with
a northern Style goes back at least to the latter part of the
I6th century, the term northern is a relative one and it
really denotes that part of the Deccan which lay separate
from the Tamil Jand; they go further and locate the
Ndgara style (its definition is intended to apply to the
Kadamba style also) in the Calukyan country which would
thus be northern in relation to that of the Drdvida style.
They have, however, based this hypothesis on certain

premises which are partially open to objection. Thus, |

while advocating the southern origin of the Mdnasdra,
they think that the reference to the images and shrines of
Subrahmanya as well as of Saptaméatrkas, and to the
antelope and drum as attributes in the hands of Siva in the
work distinctly emphasises its southern character. But
it must be observed that as early as the early centuries
of the Christian era, Svami Brahmanya, a variant of
Subrahmanya was well knewn in northern India as a
synonym of the War-god (Cf. the coins of the
Yaudheyas found in the southern and south-eastern parts
of the Punjab); the SaptamatrkA images do not hail from
the south of the Vindhyas only and lastly antelope as an
attribute of Siva was also sufficiently well known in the
north inthe early centuries of the. Christian era (Cf. the
representation of Siva on the Oesho coins of the Kaniska
group of kings). Nor is their allusion to Fiihrer’s discovery

rman see mt

NOTICES OF BOOKS 167

of a large two-storied Siva temple, ‘built of carved brick and
dating from the Ist century B.C.’ at Rampur in the Bareilly
district of the United Provinces, a very happy one. However,
these few minor points raised here do not in the least
minimise the usefulness of the publication in question.
The authors have gone deep into it and their first-hand
acquaintance with a good many of the early Deccan
temples and their proper understanding of their architec-
tural details have enabled them to tackle satisfactorily
the dificult problem of the determination of the various
temple-types as laid down in texts.

Dr. Gravely, the author of the second Bulletin on ‘An
Outline of Indian Temple Architecture’, has developed the
theme already outlined in Bulletin No. 1. The author here
has not only used the frame-work of his earlier joint effort
to fitin many interesting and new data collected by him
after a careful observation of many Deccanese temples, but
also has widened his scope and taken into consideration
many and various temple-types of northern India, hailing
from such remote regions as Nepal and Kashmir. He has
rightly struck a note of caution about the identification of
the ‘Northern’ or ‘Indo-Aryan’ style of Fergusson with the
Nagara style of the Silpagdstras. As regards Fergusson’s
Southern form of temple to be equated with Dravidian—
the name of a single style, the author has rightly pointed
out that in this, a confusion has been made between
two really different styles of temple architecture which
developed along different linesin southern Indiain the
Tamilian and Kanarese districts. For minimising the
danger of confusion, he would dub one of the two as
Tamilian which would properly describe the one current
in the Tamil land. He has discussed the evolution of some
interior decorative motifs of this style witha great deal of
precision.

It is impossible to take stock of all the special features
of the above Bulletins in the short space of this review. It
must be observed, however, that these two well-written
168 NOTICES OF BOOKS

works have much enhanced our knowledge about this most
intricate problem of Indian archeology and similar attempts
with such handling of detail willbe greatly appreciated.
The drawings accompanying the volumes and the single
plate appended to the second one fully serve their purpose.

JITENDRA NATH BANERJEA.

Honorary Secretary’s Report on the Eighth
International Congress of Historical
Sciences, Zurich, 1338

Zurich, the largest city in Switzerland, the centre of
her industry, commerce and finance, and the seat of her
world-renowned educational institutions, was the venue of
the Eighth International Congress of Historical Sciences
which held its sittings during the week from the 28th August
to the 4th September 1938. To what extent this session has
justified the title of the Congress will best appear from the
fact that it was attended by delegates from no less than
forty-nine different nations including, as the President
declared, the first representative delegation from British
India. Even distant and war-distracted China senther re-
presentative in the person of Dr. Hu-Shi, Hon. Ph. D.

(Harvard). To quote further the felicitous words of the

Congress President it was as if the authorities had discover-
ed a new world like what was found by the Spanish adven-
turers. Among the delegates attending the Congress from
British India, one noticed Father Heras, representing the
Government of India, Prof. Ward representing the Univer-
sity of the Punjab, Prof. H. K. Sherwani, a representative of
the Osmania University, while the Greater India Society was
represented by its Hony. Secretary, Prof. U. N, Ghoshal.
On the opening day of the Congress, welcome addresses
were delivered in French, German and Italian (the three
official languages of Switzerland) on behalf of various Swiss
organisations. This was followed by the learned address of
the President of the Congress, Prof. Harold Temperley of
Cambridge University, which fully shared in the polyglot
character of the Proceedings. On the six following days

took place in the spacious rooms of the Federal Institute of |
170 ZURICH CONGRESS

Technology the meetings of the different sections of which

there were as many as fifteen this year. These were (I)
Prehistory and proto-history, (II) Classical Archaeology,
(1) Auxiliary sciences, Archives and Organisation of His.
torical Work, (IV) Numismatics, (V) Middle Ages and
Byzantium, (VI) Modern times down to 1914, (VII) History
of Non-European Lands, (VIII) History of Religions, Church
History (Middle Ages and Modern times), (LX) History of
Laws and Institutions (Middle Ages and Modern times),
(X) Economic and Social History (Middle Ages and Modern
times), (XI) Military History, (XII) History of Ideas, (XIII)
History of Sciences, (XIV) Historical Method and Theory
of History, and (XV) International Centre of Synthesis. In
addition, four sittings were devoted to a special section, that
of Historical Demography. The largest number of papers
was offered for section VI which accounted for as many
as fourteen sittings. In section XII Prof. Sherwani read a
paper on Islamic Political Philosophy which was well}
received by the audience. What concerned India and its
outward connections came under section VII (History of
Non-European lands). In this section Dr. Ghoshal read a
paper on A Rare Indian temple type in Combodia in
which he sought to identify the term nandika mentioned in
arxecently discovered inscription of Cambodia with a type
of square temples mentioned in Agni and Garuda Puranas,
the Manasdra and the Jaina canon. He also tried to connect
the known characteristics of the art of Indravarman | (author
of the Cambodian inscription) with the description in the
Silpagasiras. Prof. Krom, Father Heras, Dr. Wiedmar and
others joined in the resulting discussion. This was followed
by a paper of Prof. H. G. Seth which was readin the
absence of the author by Prof. U.N. Ghoshal, Vice-Presi-
dent of the section. Then came the ingenious and learned
paper of Father Heras, The story of Minotaur in the light
of Mohenjo-Daro inscriptions, in which he sought to
connect the pictorial representation on a Mohenjo-Daro
seal with the well-known Greek legend of Theseus and the

Pac

ZURICH CONGRESS 171

Minotaur of Crete. This naturally gave rise to a lively
ciscussion.

Among the items of business done by the Congress,
one which was of special interest to India was the forma-
tion of a Commission of the Far-East with European and
Indian members for establishing contact with India, China
and other lands. Another important development was that
the proposed Indian Historical Association, which had been
in the air for some time, took some definite shape, and a
provisional scheme was drawn up for preparation of a
bibliography of Indian historical publications in recent
times. This last work was done at some informal meetings
in which Father Heras, Prof. Ward, Prof. Sherwani and
Prof, Ghoshal took part.

Zurich abounds in excellent educational and other
institutions of which the members took full advantage during
the Congress sittings. Among its objects of special interest
to students of History and Archaeology may be mentioned
the Zwingli Room in the Central Library along with its
historical exhibition, specially arranged for the occasion,
of Swiss illustrated chronicles as well as book-sheets and
prints of 15th and l6th ceturies, the array of historical
documents with papal and imperial seals and seals of Swiss
cantons, etc. at the State Archives, the pre-historic collection —
and the rooms of various centuries at the Swiss National
Museum, and last but not the least, the collection of Swiss
and foreign painters and sculptors from the [5th to the 20th
centuries at the Art Gallery. i

We can only notice here a few of the entertainments
arranged by the Congress authorities for the delegates and
visitors who enjoyed them immensely. There were the re-
ception by the Society of Antiquaries and the University
at the Technological Institute, the. receptions of the Guild-
houses, the steamer-trip to Rapperswill (including a visit to.
the Polish Historical exhibition in the mediaeval castle), the
reception by various consulates and representatives of the
Zurich society, the reception by Prof. and Frau von

;
|

172 ZURICH CONGRESS

Meyenburg at their quaint residence on the banks of the
Zurich Lake called the ‘Schipf’, the railway trip to the lofty
peak of Rigi-Kulm commanding a magnificent view of five
Swiss cantons with the lakes, and so forth. Besides these,
there was a little entertainment given to the British Indian
delegates by the members of the British delegation at a local
restaurant. This gave an opportunity for mutual contact
which was much appreciated by the Indian delegates, It
was also a matter of gratification to the latter that one of
them, Father Heras: was elected to the Executive Committee
of the Congress for the coming term.

The last sitting of the Congress took place like the
opening session in the beautiful Church of St, Peter.

4

!

ij

t
cay
x

wt

Honorary Secretanry’s Report on the Twentieth
International Congress of Orientalists,
Brussels, 1938

The Twentieth Session of the International Congress of
Orientalists was held on seven successive days from 4th to
10th September, 1938 at the historic city of Brussels
which for the beauty of its monuments and the art and
culture of its citizens has fitly won the title of la petite Paris.
lt was quite gratifying to find that India was represented at
the Congress by no less than eight learned institutions, not
to speak of the Universities of Calcutta and Bombay which
also sent representatives. Among the delegates attending
the Congress one met the familiar figure of Father Heras
who worthily represented along with Prof. Raghu Vira the
Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute of Poona ; Mr. S.
Yusuf, Assistant Director of the Hyderabad Archaeological
Survey; Dr. R. P. Masani who represented the Bombay
University with other institutions; Dr. Suniti Kumar
Chatterji who attended as a representative of the Calcutta
University and of the Royal Asiatic Society of Bengal. The
Greater India Society was represented by its Hony.
Secretary Prof. U.N. Ghoshal who was also the representative
of the Royal Asiatic Society of Bengal and the Calcutta
University. There was besides a sprinkling of Indians
persecuting advanced studies at the British and the Conti-
nental Universities. The opening sitting of the Congress took
place under the presidency of the Minister of Public Instruc-
tion in the grand hall of the Palais des Academies which i is
one of the most distinctive edifices in the Belgian capital. It
was here that the President of the Congress, Dr. Jean Capart,
delivered his speech after the welcome address by the Minis-
ter of Public Instruction. The fol lowing days were devoted
to meetings of the different sections, of which there were rae

aul

194 BRUSSELS CONGRESS

as many asnine: (1) Egyptology and Africanism, (2) Assy-
riology, (3) Central Asia, (4) India, (5) The Far East and
Indonesia, (6) Semitic Languages and Peoples, (7) The Old
Testament and Judaica, (8) Islam, and (9) The Christian East.
The sessions were held in the rooms of the Royal Museums
of Art and History which for the richness and variety of their
collections rank among the greatest in the world and whose
situation in the midst of the magnificent Parc du Cinquan-
tenaire commemorating the fiftieth year of Belgian inde-
pendence is such as would delight the eyes of all lovers of
beauty. Of the papers presented at the Congress we may
mention a few bearing specially on Greater India, These
are G. de Hevesy—Une immigration inconnue dans I'Inde
(suggesting on the basis of the Munda languages an Uralian
migration into India before the coming of the Aryans);
H. G. Quaritch Wales, Light thrown by recent excavations
on identification of some historic sites in Malaya (announ-
cing the results of some excavations still in progress),
M. Lalou, Les manuscrits tibétains de Toueng-houang con-
servés dla Bibliothéque Nationale de Paris (announcing
completion of the first fasc. of catalogue of this precious
collection by the end of this year), and R. le May, A survey
of Buddhist sculpture in Siam (distinguishing six periods
in the history of this art from 400 to 1600 A. D.). Prominent
mention may also be made of the most interesting lantern
lecture of J. Hackin, Reconaissances archéologiques en
Afghanistan (delivered under the joint auspices of the
Belgian Institute of Advanced Chinese studies, the Belgian
Society of Oriental Studies and the Section on the Far East
and Indonesia) at the Hall of the Colonial Union, in
which by means of colour films the learned conservator
of the Musée Guimet gave a most informative survey of
excavation work undertaken by him on some Afghanistan
sites during recent years. Among papers specially con-
cerning India may be mentioned: —K. Chattopadhyaya,
The goddess Simalia-Sumalia (suggesting that she was a
Mother-Goddess and not a. mountain-goddess and was

BRUSSELS CONGRESS 175

connected with the Great Goddess of Phrygia), S. K.
Chatterji, Sanskrit and the Perso-Arabic alphabet (remarks
ona unique MS. giving some Sanskrit texts in this Perso-
Arabic script in the collection of the Royal Asiatic Society
of Bengal from which valuable sidelights are thrown on
the medizval pronunciation of Sanskrit in Kashmir); Ibid,
The origin of the name Calcutta; 8S. Corbiau, Le Culte
de la double-hache dans Inde; U.N. Ghoshal, Some types
of circular temples in Ancient India (distinguishing five types
of such structures actually in existence and connecting them
with descriptions of similar types in the Silpaéastra, illustra-
ted with 16 diagrams); H. Heras, A Proto-Indian represent-
ation of the Fertility God (remarks on a nude figure on some
Mohenjo Daro amulets with suggestions of Sumerian,
Cretan and Egyptian affinities); J. Filliozat, Nagarjuna et
Agastya (remarks on certain texts on alchemy and black
magic attributed to these personages); St. Schayer, Einige
Bemerkungen tiber das Zeitproblem in der frahbuddhistischen
Philosophie (suggesting that Kala is only a synonym
for Samskara, according to the system of the Kosa) ;_
Raghu Vira, On the proposed new edition of the
Ramayana; Otto Stein, The importance of the study of
the Silpasdstra ; Pisani, On the Mahabharata problem ;
H. von Glasenapp, Der Ursprung der buddhistischen
Dharma-Theorie: J. Ph. Vogel, A project for a dictionary
of the ancient geography of India, and S. Yusuf, Paithan
excavations (lantern lecture). 2

The occasion of the sitting of the Congress was marked
by anumber of important presentations of works made by
some of the delegates. Such were the four volumes of
metrical versions in. Italian. of portions of the Mahabharata
with connecting links by Prof. Carlo Formichi,who collabora-
ted with the translator, the late Dr. Kerbaker, along with
Dr. Pisani; a number of Vedic and other works by their
editor and publisher, Prof. Raghu Vira ; some files of the
Journal of the Greater India Society presented by the editor
Prof. U.N. Ghoshal ; some numbers of the New Indian
176 BRUSSELS CONGRESS

Antiquary by Prof. 5, K. Chatterjee, etc. In presenting on
behalf of the Italian Indologists the four volumes of the
Mahabharata in Italian the work is to be completed in
five volumes in all), Prof. Formichi speaking in his mother
tongue paid a glowing tribute to the Mahabharata as the
greatest poem of the world. A noteworthy item of business
at a meeting of the Indian section was the adoption, at the
instance of Prof. Otto Stein, of a resolution requesting the
Director-General of Archaeology to take steps in collabora-
tion with the various Indian Universities for preparing a
series of atlases of Indian material civilisation. The Indian
Section adopted another resolution recommending to the
support of all interested bodies and persons the new vario-
rum edition of the Ramayana projected by Dr. Raghu Vira.

The busy days of the Congress were made very enjoy-
able to the assembled delegates by around of entertain-
ments. Of these special mention may be made of the
reception by the Municipal Administration of Brussels
at the Town Hall dating from the [5th century and
adorned with numbers of historical pictures, the reception
by the Belgian Government at the Royal Museum, and lastly
the reception by the Catholic University of Louvain, follow-
ed by the excursion to the Colonial Palace and the Belgian
Congo Museum at Tervueren with its magnificent park.
Mention may also be made of the reception at the Royal
Library (accompanied with an exhibition of its oriental
collection). Like the opening session, the last sitting of
the Congress took place at the Palais des Academies,
when after the concluding address of the President and the
passing of a number of resolutions, Paris was announced
as the seat of the next Congress and a thanksgiving address
was delivered by:Prof. D. S. Margoliouth.

AEB os Bs 6 yuna

SHORT NOTICES

_ We have pleasure in announcing that the authorised
English translation. of Prof. Krom’s Hindoe-Javaansche
Geschiedenis by Mr. H. B. Sarkar, which was undertaken
by the Greater India Society last year, is complete in MS.
It is now being revised in successive instalments by its
learned author who is adding to his claim for the Society's
gratitude by enriching it with supplementary notes, It is
expected that the work will be sent to the Press in two or
three months’ time.
*e * & *

We beg to, inform our readers that our forthcoming
publication, Prof. G. Tucci’s Travels of Tibetan pilgrims in
the Swat valley is in an advanced stage of printing. We
can only regret the delay that has occurred in the
appearance of this work.

* * * *

The library of the Greater India Society has been
enriched by the acquisition of nearly seventy photographs
of antiquities mostly from Central and Eastern Java, which
have been kindly supplied by Dr. W. F. Stutterheim, Head of
the Archaeological Survey of Netherlands-India, in exchange
for a complete set of the Greater India: Society’s publica-
tions. This has been one of the happy results of the con-
tact which the Honorary Secretary of the Greater India
Society was able to establish with Dr, Stutterheim at the
Trivandrum session of the All-India Oriental Conference
last year.

* ® 7 & *

Dr, Kalidas Nag, Joint Honorary Secretary of the
Greater India Society, returned to India after four months’
tour in Australia and the neighbouring lands. Selected as a
representative of the Government of ‘India. at the second
session of the British Commonwealth Relations Conference

178 SHORT NOTICES

which was held at Sydney in September last, he visited on
the way the Universities of Perth, Adelaide and Melbourne
At the close of the Conference, he made a trip to New
Zealand studying Polynesian art and antiquities among the
Maoris and visiting the Universities and Museums of Auck-
land and Wellington. In the following November, he
passed through Melanesia to the Philippines, where he deli-
vered a series of lectures on Greater India and cognate topics
at the State University of Manilla and other learned institu-
tions. The Institute cf Pacific Relations at Manilla elected
him as an Honorary Member of the Society in recognition of
his attainments. From Manilla he returned home, revisiting
on the way the centres of culture at Saigon, Bangkok and
Singapore. Dr. Nag’s report will be published in the next
issue of the Journal of the Greater India Society.

4

ot

in Nederlandsch-Indie, 1913-1938.

| BOOKS RECEIVED
The Greater India Society acknowledges with thanks

the receipt of the following books, periodicals, pamphlets
etc., during the last six months.

Periodicals

Adyar Library Bulletin (Brahma-Vidya) Vol. I, Part 4,
Vol. ii. Part 2, Madras, 1937-38.

Annals of the Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute,
Vol. xix, 1938.

Bijdragen tot de Taal-Land-en Volkenkunde van
Nederlandsch-Indié, Deels 96 & 97, ‘s-Gravenhage, 1938.

Buddha-Prabha, Vol. 6. No. 2, April, 1938.

Bulletin of the Colonial Institute of Amsterdam, Vol. I,
Nos. 2, 3 & 4, Amsterdam, 1938.

Bulletin de l’'Ecole Frangaise d'Extréme-Orient, tome _
xxxvii, Fase 1, Hanoi, 1938.

Bulletin of the School of Oriental Studies, Vol. ix, pt. i
London, 1938.

Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Annual
Report for 1937, New York, 1937.

Djawa, 18 Jaarg, No. 1-2 & No. 3, 4. en 5, Jogjakarta,
Java, 1938.

Een Oudheidkundig Jubileum, Oudheidkundig Dienst

Indian Historical Quarterly, Vol. xiv, Nos. 1, 2 & 3,
Calcutta, 1938.

Journal of the Annamalai University, Vol. vii pts. 2 & 3,
Annamalainagar, 1938..

Journal of the Assam Research Society, April 1938.

Journal of Indian History, Vol. Exvii pts. a 2, Madras
1938.

Journal of the Malay Branch of the Royal Asiatic
Society, Vol. xvi pt. I, July 1938. .

Koninklijke Vereeniging Koloniaal Institut, Aieilvdam,
Zeven en Twintigste Jaarverslag, 1937.

180 BOOKS RECEIVED

Man in India, Vol. xviii No. 1, Jan-March 1938.

NMededeeling No. xIvii. Afdeeling volkenkunde, Nos.
1] & 12. Amsterdam, 1938. |

Koninkliik Bataviaasch Genootschap van Kunsten en
Wetenschappen, Jaarboek V, Bandoeng, 1938.

Literatuur-Overzicht voor de Taal- Land-en Volken-
kunde en Geschiedenis van Nederlandsch-Indié, Jaar. 1937,
Deel H, ‘s-Gravenhage, 1938.

Oriental Literary Digest Vol I. No. 7. Poona 4, 1938.

Qstasiatische Zeitschrift, N. F. 13 Jahre., 5 & 6 hefts,
Berlin, 1937.

Polski Biuletyn Orientalistycany, Vol. I, Warsaw, 1937.

Tidschrift voor Indische Taal- Land- en Volkenkunde,
Deel Ixsviiil, Aflevering 2, 3 & 4, Batavia, 1931.

Tropisch Nederland, xl Jaargang, No. 14, Amsterdam,
1937,

Books. pamphlets etc.

Drewes, G. W. J. en Poerbatjaraka, De Mirakelen van
Abdoelkadir Djaeloni, Bandoeng, 1938.

Sadananda, Swami, Sucarnadvipa (Sumatra), Calcutta,
1938. Campd, Calcutta, 1938. .

Sahni, Dayaram, Archacological Remains and Excava-
tions ai Bairat, Jaipur State, 1938.

Sharpe, Elizabeth. An cight-hundred Year Old Book of
Indian Medicine and Formulas, London, 1937.

Srikantaya, S., Founders of Vijayanagar, Bangalore City,
1938.

Sactivel, Arsna-Lila, Paris, 1937.

