Diattzeaoy (SOO) a

Unive
Sichignn
Sibires,

Original from

Digitized by Google UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
+48 Original rom

Digitized by Google ~ 7 UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN

OF MICHIGAN

. DS
THE JOURNAL ep

_OF THE wR,

GREATER INDIA SOCIETY ~"”

Vow XH JANUARY“DECEMBER 1946 No. 1-2

Indo—Javanese History

[English Translation of Dr. N. J. Krom’s Hinde-Javansche
Geschiedenis]

By HimaNsu BHUSAN SARKAR, M.A,
The Sources of Hindu-Javanese History

In attempting to trace the course of Indo-Javanese history, as we
have sought to do here from meagre materials which are again of
very heterogenous character and of very graded value, it is proper
more than anywhere else to form some idea of the sources. at our
disposal, In doing this, we may distinguish ‘in the light of external
distinctive marks, the indigenous sources from the foreign ones. By
‘indigenous’ we understand not only the data derived from Java but
also those obtained from other islands of the Archipelago, whose
ancient history was closely linked up with the Javanese. Within the
grouping of indigenous sources, further differentiation serves to be
made, according as they cover the entire period under review or a part
thereof. To the first category belong the inscriptions, monuments
and literature; to the second, the Nagarakrtagama and the Paraton.

A. The Indigenous Sources,

The Inscriptions. The oldest evidence bearing on the
appearance of Hinduism in the Archipelago is furnished by inscrip-
tions, and they continue to crop up, in a more or less regular series, up
to the closing days of the downfall of the Hindu-Javanese hegemony
in the sixteenth century. By taking this fact into consideration, we
cannot but be struck with the relatively poor output of historical data
from these inscriptions. The explanation of this phenomenon is that

Google
2 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

the inscriptions were almost without exception’ drawn up on the
occasion of foundations or endowments; sometimes they were also
intended to preserve vivid recollection of such deeds, specially to lay
down that all formalities towards higher powers and towards men have
been fulfilled. Then only could the foundation be certain of the help
of the former against the encroachment of the latter; then also was it
possible to appeal by right, if necessary, to the foundation-charter
or to a later supplementary document of favour.

Hence, we find in such inscriptions details offering accurate infor-
mation on the date when and the persons by whom the foundation
or the grant or whatever it may be was ushered into existence. Usually
the king was the promulgator, but sometimes other temporal or spiri-
tual dignitaries of the persons were also responsible. We then get a
description who had offered their co-operation in the matter and who
were the witness thereof. When lands were given away, the boun-
daries were defined; when privileges were granted, they were set
forth with meticulous care. Lastly, it is laid down in precise terms,
where it is proper, that all the requisite ceremonies have been per-
formed with the official solemnity. In this way the foundation etc.
become an accomplished fact and the formulary to invoke the pro-
tection of higher beings is, if necessary, repeated in extenso at the
end of the inscription.

From this résume of the main characteristice of the inscriptions (at
any rate, of the majority of them), we can easily discover what is
or what is not-met with in the inscriptions in general. They throw -
light on the regnal years of different kings, on their titles and those
of their officers, on the dignitaries of state functioning at a particular
time and on their mutual relationships; by doing 80 they also
enlighten us about the affairs of public administration, but above
all, about matters spiritual. Not the least important are those
parts that deal with privileges and give us an insight into the
varied nature of corvee and taxation which must or must not
be brought into operation or realised; they also acquaint us with various
occupations and trades which may or may not be carried on, with
the organisation of villagers, with the manner by which lands were
disposed of, and with other similar details. Till now, unfamiliarity
with the exact significance of a number of terms appearing in
these inscriptions has been a great difficulty in appraising these

1 Inscriptions of a different character are, for instance, the jayapatras
(documents of judicial verdict), of which some are extant, and the short consecra-
tory formulae on various objects of deities, etc.

Google
INDO-JAVANESE HISTORY 3

details at their true worth; where however by working up a part of
these data a beginning has been made, it appears clear that much
important material for our knowledge of medieval objects still re-
mains hidden in the inscriptions.

‘What we do not find in this kind of inscriptions are specific his-
torical events; they only occur, here and there, in the sambandha—
the motif in the contemplated project—when such a definite fact be-
comes the occasion for the foundation or endowment in question, and,
even then, only a very brief reference is made to that fact, as if it
is something generally known. The few exceptions, forming instances
‘of connected train of events, are only apparently so. When King
Airlangga celebrated the reunification of Java under his authority at
the close of his reign by establishing a cloister at Pucangan, he gave
an account of the painful circumstances under which he assumed the
government and the great difficulties he overcame in order to reach
his goal, but all these are ng other than an unusually circumstantial
sambandha. So also the other case, in which king Kytarajasa gave
an account of his adventures when he, after the destruction of the
kingdom and the army of Singhas&ri, was anxious to protect his
doomed life: he had, in that account, no other aim than to put in
a clear light the miserable condition in which he arrived at the
village of Kudadu. and how he was anxious ta repay the staunch
devotion of that village when he was re-instated ir his royal authority.
We may therefore be thankful that the writers of both these inscrip-
tions, have taken recourse to such a lengthy exposition of the motif;
that alters, however, nothing of the statement that, as a general rule,
the inscriptions mention no historical events as such.

On the other hand, it may be mentioned as a positive gain that,
where in other countries the panegyrics on the great achievements of
the kings who have issued edicts often provoke our doubts about
these very deeds or at least minimise their magnitude, in Java the
meagre statement of ‘facts obviously taken for granted, as if generally
known, has usually appeared to be very trustworthy. That we must
not attach any special importance to the customary epithets, which
are common to Indian monarchs and occur here, is quite evident:
the subject is barely touched upon, because inferences at one time
were drawn from them regarding the personality of those who bore
such epithets.

The inscriptions are incised on stone or on copper; sometimes
reference is made to this fact even in the records themselves; the
edicts, for example, are said to be incised ring linggopala (on the
stone-pillar), or are designated as tamraprasasti (copper-plate record).

Google
4 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

These then refer to the original inscription, but in the copies taken
we can read, as occasion arises, a “‘copper-plate record’’ on a stone.

It can not be expected that we shall find all inscriptioins in their
original form; indeed, many are known to us only through their copies.
It is quite evident that various factors have operated in the copying of
edicts,.in the first place, when there was something wrong with the
original itself; so we can easily understand that an attempt would be
made to reconstruct a charter that has entirely vanished. Sometimes,
under the inscription is written tinulad, i.e., “‘copied,"” but usually
that reference is lacking and then only a few such instances are
known as the inscription of Penampihan, dated in 898, but written
in the fifteenth-century script. There are also several cases which show
that on the occasion of promulgating a new endowment-charter in
respect of a foundation existing from former times, the old charter
was inserted before the new one.

Now, the fact that we have to deal with a later copy of an inscrip-
tion does not in itself spoil the value of the document as a source of
history. Only we must take into account the possibility of mistakes
or errors initiated by the work of transcription; in that respect the
carelessness of the copyists is, in our opinion, often incredible. It
is also very usual that an old charter is brought into line with the
spelling current in the time of the copyists. The case must be deemed
serious when something new is set up from the fragments of old ins-
criptions: the outcome thus becomes an act of falsification, at least
for us, because it can be urged on behalf of the writers (besides
the cases where false documents are consciously fabricated) that
they have tried their best without misleading any one, to restore
a missing charter. As ill luck would have it, a couplel of such
inscriptions were the first to become known to eastern research
before men could form an idea of the true nature of an Old-Javanese
inscription on the basis of genuine charters. The result is that they
were long considered to be genuine and much mischief was done by
inferences drawn from them, until the penetrating genius of Brandes
applied itself to demonstrate convincingly the spurious character of
one of the worst examples (the so-called inscription from 840, dis-
cussed in his Pararaton edition). In our opinion, a prolonged syste-
matic research would reveal copies in many more inscriptions,
specially among the copper-plates, than is admitted now.”

The stone-inscriptions are, for a small part, engraved on the faces
of precipice or on pieces of rock; for the most part, men have chiselled

1 About this see also chap. VII.

Google
INDO-JAVANESE HISTORY 5

them into stones with the express purpose of incising stone-inscrip-
tions. These stones are, in some cases, small pillars of the shape of
a liga, but otherwise they are almost always oblong, flat pieces,
dressed carefully, and planted, though not always, upon an indivi-
dual pedestal; the plain first face was used and, if necessary, the second
face, and later on, also the sides, for the purpose of the inscription.
For further particulars, we may refer to the studies of Brandes
cited below. The copper-plates are rectanguar and thin; the ins-
cription is engraved lengthwise on the first and the second face, and
if it consists of several plates these are kept together by a ring bored
through a hole in the middle of the plates and are preserved in a case
meant for them.

The oldest inscriptions of the Archipelago are on stone; they bear
no dates, but on palaeographical grounds they may be assigned to the
fourth and the fifth centuries. Their language is Sanskrit. Dates and
a different language are however found for the first time outside Java :
the Old-Malay inscriptions of Palembang and Bangka from 683 and
subsequent years.! In Java, the oldest dated inscription is that of
Canggal (Kedu) from 732, written in Sanskrit; while for this and all
previous inscriptions the Pallava character has been employed, there
appears in 760 the first specimen of the Old-Javanese (so-called Kawi-)
script on the Sanskrit inscription of Dinaja and this script which we
consider to be the continuation of the Pallava, remained in general
ushge. Besides, the Pre-Nagari makes its appearance in 778, but this
seems (at least as script for inscriptions) to be circumscribed to a
narrow compass of time and space, Barring insignificant exceptions,
all further inscriptions are in the Old-Javanese ecript.?

At thie very time, the Old-Javanese also supersedes Sanskrit in the
inscriptions : first of all, in the inscription of Sukabumi (Kediri) from
789 (or 784); as thie record is only extant in a copy of more than a
century later, the oldest dated Old-Javanese inscription which has
reached our hands in ite original form happens to be that of Diéng

1 Attention may here be drawn to the fact that everywhere with the trans-
position of the Saka-years that were current in the Archipelago to their correspond-
ing Christian years the figure 78 has been added for the sake of convenience,
without taking into account the months’ difference between the commencement
of the Saka year and the Christian year. Of a large number of dates the months
are not known, so that a wilful acceptance or rejection of the difference in the
commencement of years will lead to arbitrariness and confusion.

2 Extensive studies on the Pallava-script of the Archipelago have been made
by Vogel in Kon, Inst, 74 (1918) p. 216-232 and Bub: Oudb. Dienst 1
(igus) p 33:35. Oi the Pre-Nigari, sce Bosch in Tisch. Bet. Gen. 68 (1929)
pp. 716.

Google
6 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

from 809. Soon thereafter follows the oldest copper-plate, but this,
bearing the date 824, does not appear to be above suspicion.’ Thus,
oldest inscription on a material other than stone turns out to be a
record on the silver umbrella of Mandang (Kedu) from 843; we do not
come across authentic copper-plate records in the original before 878
(in copy, one lustrum earlier).

With more or less regularity, the epigraphic data are available for
the whole course of Hindu-Javanese history. We consider the last of
the copper-plates to be that from 1473 and the last of the stone-
inscriptions to be that from 1486, not because there are no later ex-
amples but because the terminal point of ancient history is fixed upon
the passing of supremacy over Java to Islamic rulers. As regards the
language and script, there is no line to be drawn: gradually they
transform themselves into those of Modern Java.

The epigraphy of the Dutch-Indies still demands a separate scien-
tific treatment such as that devoted by Biihler to India. The data are
to be found in:

Holle, Tabel van Oud- en Nieuw-Indische Alphabetten, 1882, and
Brandes, Beschreven Steenen, in den Catalogus der Archeologische
Verzameling van het Bataviaasch Genootschap van Kunsten en
Wetenschappen, by W. P. Groeneveldt, p. 351 and ff.

The results‘of Kern's labour in this field, extending from 1872 to
1915, can at present be conveniently consulted in the Verspreide
Geshriften VI (1917) pp. 249-317 and VII (1917) pp, 1-226.

Further separate editions of inscriptions will be mentioned where
they are used. A number of inscriptions, only in transcription, has been
collectively published by :

Cohen Stuart, Kawi Oorkonden in facsimile, 1875 (cited as K.O.
with number).

Brandes, Oud-Javaansche Oorkonden, Verhand. Bat. Gen. 60, 1913
(cited as O.JO. with number).

The edition of a Corpus Inscriptionum, which for some years has
been contemplated by the Archaeological Department, would be
highly desirable. :

A list of all dated inscriptions is to be found in Tijdschr. Bat.
Gen. 53, 1911, pp. 229-268, with supplements in T.B.G. 56, 1914, pp.
188-193: Oudheidk. Verslag 1915, pp. 85-88; O.V. 1916, pp. 148-149;
and O.V. 1923, pp. 103-109.

1 On the possibility of an inscription from 797, see chap. VI.
2 Of a possibly carlier record from 715, the authenticity has still to be
examined; Bosch in Ondb. Versl., 1929, p. 156.

Google
INDO-JAVANESE HISTORY 7

The monuments and other antiquarian re-
mains. The special importance of such data for getting an insight
into Hindu-Javanese culture from a definite point of view need not
be expressly dwelt upon. They attracted attention long before any-
thing worth the name was known from other sources, and it was not
so long ago that people identified medieval Java with her monuments;
it is these monuments which constituted, according to many people,
the only importance of the oblivious past before the arrival of the
Europeans, or, at the utmost, before the Islamisation of Java.
Although this view has gradually undergone a change, it remains a
fact that the monuments (taken in the broadest sense) still continue
to be the central point of interest, and that, to be sure, not wrongly :
on the one hand, they are among the best and most tangible materials
which prove the lofty flight of the Hindu-Javanese culture, and, on
the other hand, through their artistic value they speak a language
intelligible even to people totally unacquainted with ancient Java.

As we have elsewhere elaborately discussed these monuments and
have also tried to assign them their place in the development of art,
we shall here merely refer to the work in question, the ‘“Inleiding tot
de Hindoe-Javaansche Kunst’ (second edition, 1923), for a résumé of
our survey of the relevant ruil It only remains to add that it is far
from the truth to say that we have data of this nature, always and in
an equal proportion, throughout the whole course of old Javanese
history. Indeed, for the oldest period, they are totally absent, what
may be the reasons for this phenomenon will be treated in due course.
We shall also consider at the proper time the distribution of the ex-
tant monuments over various periods, which appears at first sight to
be rather queer. In any case, it remains a fact that the monu-
ments first appear in the eighth century A.D. We find a very
large number of extremely important monuments in Central Java
during the eighth and ninth centuries, but for the selfsame period,
only a few remains are to be found in East Java. With the com-
mencement of the tenth century the position changes, because, from
that time, almost nothing is to be found any more in Central Java;
on the other hand, the finds in East-Java increase to a certain extent,
although not in a very appreciable measure. This state of affairs
continues up to the first half of the thirteenth century. From this
century and the fourteenth dates again a very large number of monu-
ments, all EastdJavanese, so that we can designate this group as that
of East-Javanese efflorescence, just as we can call the eighth and ninth
centuries the period of Central Javanese efflorescence, the epoch of
the so-called classical art. In the fifteenth century the East-Javanese

Google
8 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

ruins decrease in number as well as in quality; by their side however we
find again some monuments in Central Java, although in a circums-
cribed region in the most eastern part of what should, archaeologically
speaking be called Central Java (the boundary lies between the pre-
sent residencies of Surakarta and Madiun, and the frontier mountain-
range is thus the Lawu). In West-Java, where the oldest settlements
of the Hindus had taken place long before Central-Javanese period, a
somewhat brisker life reveals itself only in thelast centures of the
Hindu-hegemony, especially in the archaeological ruins. But in com-
parison with the rest of the island, these appear to be extremely scanty
and poor.

In the Javanese monuments, as they are planned, constructed and
ormamented, the history of the Hindu-Javanese culture mirrors itself,
in so far as one selfeame course of events, one selfsame process of
development, to which other expressions of culture pertain, is also
reflected in the history of Art. So far as the main points are con-
cerned, this phenomenon has already been treated in a eeparate mono-
graph (Het oude Java en zijn kunst, Volks Universiteits Bibliothek,
1923); it seems, after surveying the course of history in its entirety, one
can reasonably speak of a process of Javanisation, in which the Hindu-
traditions, which had formed the link between Java and India, were
gradually lost and the Indonesian peculiarities rushed towards the
surface by breaking through the ever-decreasing layer of overseas-
civilisation. The monuments which clearly betray some of the fac-
tors that governed this process and may serve as an explanation of
many things that present themselves with other expressions of the
Javanese spirit, already constitute on that account an important source
of culture-history.

From the above it at once appears that they also provide a number
of data for gaining an insight into the external forms of Hindu-Javanese
society at different periods of time; they do this in the representations
of temple-reliefs. In that respect, Barabudur towers over others, with
its approximately fifteen hundred panels, and just with regard to
them the doubt has been expressed,’ whether it can be really assumed
that those reliefs are to be deemed as representing the society in
which the sculptors lived.

It is a well-known fact that, for instance, the major portion of the
edifices carved out on the reliefs have, for technical and practical
reasons, never existed in reality, in such form as the artists represent
them.

1 Bosch in Tijdschr. Bat. Gen. 61 (1922) p. 254

Google
INDO-JAVANESE HISTORY 9

Is not the self-same phenomenon applicable to other cases and
persons, and in all of them does not fantasy play greater réle than’
the surrounding reality?

‘Without conceding this’ point, we desire to refer to the other side
of the question viz. that, beside the cases where unreal things appear
to be represented, there are others where reality has undoubtedly
been portrayed. When it can be ascertained that the subject-matter
of the Barabudur-reliefs appears in the same form in present Java or
elsewhere in the Archipelago or agrees with the descriptions of Old-
Javanese conditions, it is a most admissible explanation that they aleo
looked actually so in the Barabudur-period and were not brought into
reality by a surprising accident, viz., the playful fantasy of the sculp-
tors. Thie being once admitted, the necessity arises for distinguish-
ing between what is borrowed from reality and what is derived from
fantasy it is certainly true at the present time that so long as the
distinction is not sufficiently indicated, one can as well theoretically
maintain the standpoint: ‘All is fantasy, excepting solitary instances
where, for unknown reasons, a single thing is once, taken from life’,
just as the opposite party can say: ‘All is reality, excepting where
fantasy played its réle for certain purposes.’ It is specially a ques-
tion of a more or less, and it is evident that so long as greater certainty
is not reached on this point, data of this nature can only be used
with extreme caution. Nevertheless, to us it seems certain that the
data exist, whether we over-estimate or underrate them, and it is our
duty not to overlook this source for Hindu-Javanese life.

Besides this general importance of the monuments from the stand-
point of culture-history, there are many other points which also furnish
us, such as will appear in due course, with indications of a more special
nature. Some of the ruins are very closely associated with one or
other dynasty of kings; we refer, for instance, to the royal mausolea,
which, erected over the ashes of the cremated king, contain the
image of a deity with his features. Then there are the relics of old
capitals or kratons, whose investigation can enhance our knowledge
of the life that was led and the great events that occurred there; in
this respect, important results may be expected specially from the
systematic and continual exploration of the domain of Maja-
pahit; the same remark applies to the older kratons. Other construc-
tions, for instance the boundary-wall which once separated the two
halves of the Javanese kingdom, and other similar ruins, can render a
great service to historical research. In conclusion, we refer to, the
separate group of pre-historic antiquities, of which the study has be-
gun with earnestness only ‘in the most recent years; in the following

2

Google
10 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

chapter we shall say something about the nature of these ruins and
provisional results of their examination.

The great majority of the monuments being temples and ruins of
a religious nature they are specially important for what they teach us
about religious conceptions. The reservation should however be made
that these monuments exclusively refer to official worship, but remain
silent on the current popular notions of religion, the mighty’ spirit-
world and the paraphernalia connected with it. Leaving aside for the
moment what is portrayed in this respect in the East-Javanese reliefs,
we may testify for others that they offer us a good idea of religious
practices and that they would do so still more if we should better
understand their language. These indications are particularly valu-
able for the Central-Javanese period because it has preserved almost
nothing of religious literature, which provides for EastJava such a
valuable amplification of the data of the time. °

So far as Central-Java is concerned, we re-call in this connexion
‘once more the name of Barabudur along with that of the accessory
temple of Mendut. These two sanctuaries together offer through their
reliefs and images or what is differently expressed a panorama of
carly Javanese Buddhism. In ite entire agreement with Indian concep-
tions, the Buddhism leaves an impression of pristine purity; on the
other hand, the East-Javanese temple of Jago represents later Javanese
Buddhism. As regards Saivism, the monuments in Central-Java
© enous peculiarities
in the religious conceptions; a synopsis of the Saivite réligious lore is
presented by the temple-complex of Lara \Jonggrang at Prambanan,
the counter-part of Barabudur. Here also it is possible to refer to
another great complex, that of Panataran, of East-Java, as against
Central Java, and here is to be found at the same time a transition
to the Balinese conception. In this way, monuments offer the best
and the most reliable data for the development and progress of reli-
gious ideas.

Regarding the works which bring, more or less systematically, the
historical. importance of the monuments to the forefront, a reasoned
statement has been offered in the first chapter of the above-mentioned
“Inleiding.”” For the present we shall rest satisfied with a reference
to:

Brumund, Bijdragen tot de kennis van het Hindoeisme op Java,
Verhand, Bat. Gen. 33, 1868.

Veth, Java, geographisch, ethnologisch, historisch. Vol. 1, second
edition, 1896.

Scheltema, Monumental Java, 1912.

Google
INDO-JAVANESE HISTORY "

With, Java, Brahmanische, Buddhistische und eigenlebige Archi-
tektur und Plastik, 1920.

For the Hindu-Javanese Art as a minor section in the general
purview of Indian Art reference may be made to:

Coomaraswamy, History of Indian and Indonesian Art, 1927.

The images of the gods, whose worship once brought the sanctua-
ries into existence have, for the most paft, found a home in museums
and collections. As for.:those whose dwelling-places have been des-
troyed, this certainly is the best manner of preservation, but, alas!
there ‘are also cases where monuments ‘existing even now have been
deprived of their images for the benefit of a collection (which has
thus become a dangeyous institution. [n any case, we can now study
the images best at the museums and, of course, one also finds there all
sorts of little objects of bronze and precious metals. Besides the re-
quisites for cults, there are also objects of domestic use, toilette-
necessaries, ornaments, etc. All these things together will help.us to
clarify the picture of the life of their users.

.The principal objects of this nature are deposited in two great
museums, that of the Bataviaasch Genootschap van Kunsten en Weten-
schappen at Weltevreden and the Rijks Ethnographisch Museum at
Leiden. Besides, there ate smaller collections in Java (meseums of
Mojokerto and Surakarta, collections at Prambanan, Kediri, etc.), in
the Netherlands (Kol. Instituut Amsterdam, Leeuwarden, Rotterdam,
etc.) and in foreign countries (Paris, London, Vienna, Dresden, Berlin).
The most important data for historical research are to be met with in
the catalogues of the two first-mentioned museums:

Regarding Batavia: Groeneveldt, see abov p. 5.

Regarding Leiden: JJuynboll, Catalogus van’s Rijks Ethnographisch
Museum, Vol. V, Javanese antiquities, 1909).*

In the end, it may be remembered that new data on antiquarian
and historical domain are published as soon as possible in the Oudheid-
hundig Verslag that appéare every year, and, so far as they can be
taken together in lengthier articles, in the publications of the Oudheid
kundigen Dienst which come to light at irregular intervals.

The literature. It is much to be regretted ‘that, what can
be said about literature as a source of history is still very meagre;
with the exception of the two historical works, which are to be des-
cribed separately below. Comparatively only a few works of the Old-

1 More particulars on the collections in Dutch Museums are to be found
in the author's L'art Javanais dans les mustes de Hollande et de Java, Ants
Asiatica VIII (1926).

Google
12 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

Javanese literature have been published, and what historical data are
to be found in those few do not, as a rule, engage our serious
attention. .

The method by which the data may be used is of two kinds. First
of all, the authors, especially those of the poems, have frequently,
offered, at the beginning or at the close of their works, diverse informa-
tion regarding themselves and their royal patrons, whose desire was
often the cause of completing a poetical work. Now, such references
can naturally be coupled with further particulars about the king and
his surroundings, his great achievements or what more is stated in his
honour. References of this nature, where they are suitable, are also
to be met with elsewhere in the work and, bereft of adulation which
we may always expect to be present there, the references bring to light
facts completly unknown from other sources. On the whole, it
would be very worth while to examine all available works on this kind
of data in the same way as has been done, for instance, in the case
of the Smaradahana (see chapter IX). Moreover, there are also some
clues for fixing the date of various works on the basis of the
royal names appearing therein’, but a systematic investigation has still
been reluctantly put off.

The date, about which native tradition as preserved in some later
manuscripts appears to be absolutely unreliable, is specially important
for the second method, by which we can make the products of Old-
Javanese literature fruitful for historical research. This we may do by
‘observing in them the condition, manners and morals of the time in
which they were composed. The comparisons and remarks of the
author also enlighten us in various respects. In cases where he worked
with Indian originals, we often learn much from the manner by which
the subject-matter was Javanised. It is well-known, to give a familiar
example of what we mean, how the mentioning of the wayang in the
simile of a poem from the beginning of the eleventh century offers the
first unshakable evidence on the existence of the shadow-play.

Now, when we survey all the works whose time of origin we can
trace, their unequal distribution over eight centuries of Central and
East. nese history is much more striking than the case with the
monuments, Meanwhile, there must immediately a reservation be
made that the dates of only a small portion of the extant literature
are known, and it is naturally very possible that the mentioning of the
reigning kings or other royal patrons was a question of fashion

1 Tijdschr. Bat. Gen. 57 (1916) pp. 508-52.

Google
INDO-JAVANESE HISTORY x 13

which might or might not have been in vogue in certain epochs; thereby
‘our image becomes blurred. .

One work called Candakarana perhaps originated in the Central-
Javanese period, as appears from the king mentioned in it. It will
further appear from chapter V that this origin only refers to a small
portion of the above-named manuscript, the central portion, compris-
ing an adaptation of the Sanskrit Amaramala, and that too in a moder-
nized spelling. On internal grounds one is inclined, according to
Poerbatjaraka, to add here a second work, but then a very important
one, viz., the Old-Javanese Ramayana.' With: regard to the argu-
ments for this proposition, no general agreement has been reached?
and the opinions on the antiquity of the Ramayana are still very diver-
gent. Till now we mist leave this case as it is. -

There is also little refaining from the first East-Javanese period.
The sang hyang kamahayanikan mentions king Sindok (+930) in the
beginning and can, such as we shall see, go back to a stilt older
original. As regards the earliest Old-Javanese prose-texts with posi-
tive dates, these are to be met with only at the ‘end of the tenth
century, with the prose adaptations of the three Mahabharata-parvans
under Anantavikrama. In the beginning of the eleventh follows the
earliest poetical work, Kanva’s Arjunavivaha, written “during the time
of Airlangga.

‘With it there ensues a period of efflorescence in Javanese belles
lettres, the epoch of poetical art of the court. For it is in the following
Kadiri period (which comes to an end in the beginning of the thirteenth
century) that a great number of dated or datable kakawins was com-
posed; under them falls the Bharatayuddha, which has remained famous
to the present day. In the self-same period, we also find adaptations
from frequently the self-same Indian subject as that of the kakawins,
couched in a different manner, viz., in a conception which agrees
with the wayang-idea: we thus get the lakon-form in contradistinction
to the court-poetry.’ So far as we can judge with the data available
now, the Kadiri period marks a culminating-point, perhaps the cul-
minating-point of Javanese literature,

1 Gedenkschr. Kon. Inst. 1926, pp. 265-272 and Tijdschr. Bat. Gen. 72
(1932) pp. 151-214

2 See Berg. Inleiding tot de studie van het Oud-Javaansch (1928) p. 53 f.
For a survey of the Old-Javanese literature in general, reference may also be
made to this work; sce also H. B. Sarkar, Indian influences.on the literature of
Java and Bali (1934).

3, Van Stein Callenfels discusses this in his dissertation, “De Sudamala in de
Hindu-Javaansche Kunst,” which has appeared in the Verband. Bat. Gen. 66

(1925).

Google V i
14 . HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

The following kingdom of Singhasari represents in many respects
the more recent literature as against the more time-honoured one of
Kadiri. Under its last king, the royal scholar Kytanagara, it provides
more interest for letters by commencing a. fresh efflorescence of a
different kind under the Majapahit government. Beside the art
of poetry, such as we find again under Hayam Wuruk, we have
a number of prose-compositions of didactic, pseudo-historical and
of pronounced religigus tendency. The artistic value of them is doubt-
ful, but then these are not meant as works of art, and they contain
many important data’ on various topics.. They continue even
after the fall of the Majapahit kingdom. Of particular interest is the
establishment, even during the reign of Hayam Wuruk, of a centre
of Javanese culture on Bali. This created an opportunity for a pro-
longed cultivation of literature in a genre which would have been
impossible in Islamized Java. It also conserved the literature already
in existence. That is the reason why a large number of manuscripts
has been obtained from Bali.

Separate mention deserves to be made of law-books.! We des-
cribe two of them to be the most authoritative ones: the Sivagasana,
composed under the same Anantavikrama as was associated with the
adaptation of the Mahabharata and the Kutaéramanava, which has been
explicitly referred to in Majapahit inscriptions. In due time, we shall
again come upon both; only a warning may be served here, that we
must not expect'to find there universally valid and universally applied
HindwiJavanese law; it is, even if necessarily Javanised, no other than
Indian law-regulations such as the kings have promulgated and tried
to enforce. But the question is: whether these laws were not rendered
ineffective in the desas by the Indonesian adat-conceptions governing
them. At any rate, here are cases, in which the last-mentioned
adat-conceptions Have continued to exist up to the present day, though
they were in contradiction with the injunctions of official law-boks.’

As regards the contents of the Old-Javanese prose works and poems,
we are still best enlightened by manuscripts-catalogues :

Vreede, Catalogus van de Javaansche en Madoereesche hands:
chriften der Leidsche Universiteits-bibliotheek, 1892.

Juynboll, Supplement to that Catalogus, I, 1907; Il, 1911.

Brandes, Beschrijving der Javaansche, Balineesche en Sasaksche

1 We may hold Slokantara to be one of the oldest, as this contains Sanskrit
verses; sce Juynboll, Catalogus I, p. 200-ff. and Berg. in Bijdr. Kon. Inst. 83.
(1927) p. 137- 7 .

2 CE. Van Vollenhoven, Het adatrecht van Ned. Indié Il (1931) p. 130-148.

Google

INDO-JAVANESE HISTORY 15

handschriften, aangetroffen in de nalatenschap van Dr. H. N. van der
Tuuk, 1, 1901; II, 1903; Ill, 1915; IV, 1926.

As regards the Leiden manuscripts (sheltered in the Legatum .
Warnerianum of the University-library), we are principally guided by
the above-mentioned catalogues; a catalogue of the collection at
Batavia (next to that at Leiden, by far the most important one) is still
a desideratum, but is in course of preparation. In Bali, the Kirtya
Liefrinck—Van der Tuuk forms at -present a centre for manuscript-
study.’ On the other hand, the manuscripts preserved in somie foreign
libraries have, for the most part, already been studied.

With the exception of the older publications, the following may be
mentioned under the few works published so far:

Ramédyana, ed. Kern (1900) with the Glossarium of Juynboll (1902);
Translation by Kern, Verspr. Geschr. X (1922) pp. 77-139 and Juynboll,
Bijdr. Kon. Inst. 78-94 (1922-1936).

Arjunavivaha, ed. Poerbatjaraka, Bijdr. Kon. Inst. 82 (1926).

Bharatayuddha, ed, Gunning (1903); translation by Hooykaas and
Poerbatjaraka, Djawa 14 (1934).

Smaradahana, ed. Poerbatjaraka, Bibl. Jav. 3 (1931).

Adiparva, ed. Juynboll (1906; text only).

Vieataparva, ed. Juynboll (1912) and Fokker (I, 1938).

Bhigmaparva, ed. Gonda, Bibl. Jav. 7 (1936).

Aféramavasanaparva, Mausalaparva, Prasthinikeparc, ed. Juynboll
(1893). .

Brahmandapurdna, ed. Gonda, Bibl. Jav. 5 (1932-3).

Koravaérama, ed. Swellengrebel (1936).

Tanta Panggelaran, ed. Pigeaud (1924), with particulars on similar
religious literature.”

Agastyaparva, ed. Gonda, Bijdr. Kon. Inst. 90-94 (1933-1936).

Sang hyang Kamahayanikan; ed. Kats (1910) and partly ed. Wulff
(1935).

Agama, ed. Jonker (Een Oud-Javaansch wetboek, vergeleken met
Indische rechtsbronnen, 1885).

- Kufijarakarna, ed. Kern (1903, reprint in V.G. X, pp. 1-76).

Vrttasafijaya, ed. Kern (1875, reprint in V.G. LX, pp. 67-189).

Nitisastra, ed. Poerbatjaraka, Bibl. Jav. 4 (1933).

Navaruci, ed. Prijohoetomo (1934).

Tantri Kamandaka, ed. Hooykaas, Bibl. Jav. 2 (1931).

1 A list of manuscripts has been published in the Mededeclingen of that

Kirtya 4 (1935) p. 1-86.
FRR Gas, Bijdr. 1. d. Oud-lavaansche en Balincesche theologie
(1926)

Google 4
16 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

Sudamala, ed. Van Stein Callenfels, Verh. Bat. Gen. 66 (1925).

Sri Tafijung, ed. Prijono (1938).

Calon Arang, ed. Poerbatjaraka, Bijdr. Kon. Inst. 82 (1926).

Kidung Sunda, ed. Berg, Bijdr. Kon. Inst. 83 (1927).

Kidung Pamafcangah, ed. Berg (1929).

Rangga Lawe, ed. Berg, Bibl. Jav. | (1930).

Kidung Harga Vijaya, ed. Berg, Bijdr. Kon, Inst. 88 (1931).

Further consideration of Old-Javanese works will be made where
they are used.

The Nagarakytagama. Among the sources which can
be utilised for a part of the ancient history’of Java, the Nagarakrtagama
stands far and away at the top as ap elaborate composition by a
contemporary who could, through circumstances, avail himself of
excellent data to give us an insight into various aspects of the society
and the life led there; above all, he was in a position to furnish us
with invaluable historical particulars. .

The work was brought to light in 1365, during Hayan Wuruk's
reign over Majapahit, and the author is Prapafica who held the high
office of dharmadhyaksa ring Kasogatan, i.e., the superintendent of the
Buddhist clergy.’ This dignity was not only of a spiritual nature,
but also bore court-functions; the incumbent and his colleague ring
kasaivan, i.e., the superintendent of the Saivites, remained in king's
entourage and co-operated, for example, ‘in bringing out the royal
edicts, On account of his office, Prapafica was not only acquainted
with all connected with the organisation of Buddhism, but also with
court and court-life, and he could, if he chose, conveniently use offi-
cial data about various other affairs.

The work js a poem, whose author displays particular proficiency
in verse-technique. It is characterised as a panegyric of the king, but
a short summary of the contents may serve to show that this name
does scant justice tothe contents with all its richnes

After a dedication and a reference to the king's: birth, he chants
over the king's grandmother (his predecessor on the throne), parents
and other members of the royal family, and then over the king himself.
The capital Majapahit is elaborately described with its buildings and
squares, together with an account of the ceremonies which occur there,
such as the royal audiences and the persons who present their homage

1 The view has been expressed (Poerbatjaraka in Bijdr. Kon. Inst., 78, 1922,
pp. 47) that Prapafica temporarily held this post for his father, and did not,
such as is generally accepted, definitely succeed his father (CE. also Ondb. Versl.
1923 pp. 168. and 1924, pp. 152-156; Tijdschr. Bat. Gen. 57 (1916) p. 30 and
Journ, Gr. Ind. Soc. 3 (1936) pp. 108-110).

Google
INDO-JAVANESE HISTORY 7

there. Then appears an account of the foreign possessions jn the entire
Archipelago subject to Java, and of the countries with which friendly
relations were maintained. The poet also recounts the réle played
by the clergy in the establishment of the Javanese hegemony. The
mentioning of certain places delightfully visited by the king offers the
plea to. describe his journey throughout the kingdom, specially his
great journey through the East part of Java undertaken in 1359 with a
great retinue; the poet also belonged to it. The places passed over,
specially the sanctuaries, are accurately summed up with various
particulars regarding their peculiarities; we are also enlightened about
further adventures of the journey which is broken by repeated haltage,
audiences, prayers, eports, etc. when they are on the return journey,
in which special attention is devoted to the forest-cloister of Sagara
and to the mortuary monument of the- founder of the dynasty
at Kagenengan, Singhasari ig reached; the poet avails himself of this
opportunity to call on an old clergymannamed Ratnaméa, who chants
at his request the history of the reigning royal house. This js the
so-called “historical cantos,"" to which we shall presently turn. After
giving a vivid description of a royal hunting party, the poet narrates
the remaining part of the return journey, in which a visit to the
mortuary monument of Jajawa is more minutely described, and a cere-
monial entrance into the residence. A’ couple of later journeys are
summarily dismissed; something more is stated about the restoration
of the sanctuary at Simping, which was undertaken at the command
of the king.

After this, the poet again devotes a number of cantos at a stretch
to a subject which was quite after his heart, viz., the great Buddhisne
funeral ceremony of the king’s grand-mother in 1362, with its atten-
dant rituals, and the establishment of her mausoleum; this provided
an occasion to associate the spot with the division of Java in a remote
past during the time of Airlangga. With the death of the king’s trust-
ed chancellor Gajah Mada and measures taken to replace the non-
substitutable one, the author approaches the time when the poem
was composed,

That is why the last (fourth) part of the work is not devoted to
previous events, but to contemporaneous affairs and customs. First,
of all, we get an account of twenty-seven royal sanctuaries, and then
of all religious foundations, free-holds, institutions, etc., of various
sects. After a statement regarding the survey of desas and families,
the religious foundations (only Buddhistic) of Bali are mentioned; the
active interests of the king and the members of his family are
further described, the higher clergy are praised and the trade with

3

Google
8 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

foreign countries is applauded. The poet then recalls the great
annual procession to glorify the king and the kingdom, the annual
meeting of the army and festal competitions. A ceremonial
audience, in which various regulations on agrarian and other matters
are put in the mouth of a couple of princes and of the king furnishes
the occasion to offer a vivid description of the state-festivity follow-
ing. upon the audience, a magnificent repast brightened by singers
and clowns, while at the end, a mask-play is staged in which the
king himself stars. After a fresh glorification of the king's exce-
Ilences and the mentioning of a pair of foreign (Indian) panegyrists,
the author speaks of his own work and person, and the completion
of his poem in 1365. That is a good end; the four cantos which
spin out further and which appear to state something more about
the writer in a very disordered and artificial manner stand wholly
out of tune and are perhaps later additions."

The Nagarakrtagama was edited by Brandes in Verhand. Bat.
Gen. 54, Ist part, 1902, in Balinese characters, from a single manus-
cript (obtained: in 1894 by the Lombok-expedition from the puri of
Cakranagara), but without- any further attempt to offer explanation
or amendment. It was Kern who, from 1905 to 1914, serially trans-
lated and explained the poem in the Bijdr; Kon. Inst. 58-69 and these
articles have been knit together in the Verspr. Geschr. VII (1917) and
VII (1918). In 1919, the whole work was once more separately
published with the annotations of the present writer. Since then,
penetrating research has been made into various parts of the work
which, in its entirety, has once again been subjected to a fresh ex-
amination by Poerbatjaraka, ‘Annotations on the Nagarakretagama’
in Bijdr. Kon. Inst., 80 (1924) pp. 219-286.

The above résumé, however succinct it may be, already serves to
indicate how rich and many-sided the data of the Nagarakrta-
gama are! As we see, these data refer for the most part to circums-
tances and events in which the author was personally involved or of
which he was extremely well-informed. ; This fact constitutes for
example, the great value of his description of the capital and court
and of the successive dignitaries who pay their homage there. So
also is the description of the journey by this contemporary, who him-
self took part in the tour, absolutely reliable in all its geographical
particulars. The same remark applies to the statements régarding
the sanctuaries and their registration, even as to the notices about
the course of festivities in the last cantos. All these particulars

1 Poerbatjaraka in Bijdr. Kon. Inst. 78 (1922) p. 452-459-

Google
INDO-JAVANESE HISTORY 19

constitute first-class data: which can yield most valuable information
‘on topography, the reign and administration, sacerdota] matters and
the ethnological condition of Java. Still, it is not always possible to
assess the real value of these daga, because the interpretation of the
text furnishes great difficulty here and there, and thus uncertainties
exist on various points. In the assessment of those uncertainties and
the attempts towards their solution, our starting point is that they
are mainly the consequences of our own defective knowledge of
Old-Javanese, in some cases, also of Prapafica’s less clear manner
of expression: at any rate, they never follow from the fact that the
poet himself was not entirely well-informed. He gives us a conclusive
answer as soon as we can decently interpret what he says.

The description of the journey occupies a great part of the work.
and it appears from the last canto of the certainly genuine part of
the poem that the poet also specially desired to describe in his work
the multitude of desas—‘One should call it a deSawarnana, a
description of places,”” as he says—in order that the king may have
pleasant reminiscences of them in the days to come (94: 2). Still
the work has become something more, also in the eye of the author,
who says in the selfsame strophe that he has now finished the des-
cription of the king's Kadigwijayan, triumphant hegemony, over his
kingdom.* And in the last strophe (94:4), he states that his attach-
ment to the king has prompted him to range himself among his
panegyrists. What he wrote, he already announced in the beginning
(1:3) as the account of the king, the illustrious ruler of Majapahit.” ©

This announced object to glorify the king in the poem must have
naturally exercised some influence on the method of composition.
This should constrain us to some reserve, specially where the person
of the king comes into play. That the many flatteries meant for him
must not be taken any more literally than the wide epithets in the
beginning of many inscriptions speaks of itself: moreover, there
must undoubtedly have existed a strong tendency with the panegyrist
to give a certain colour to the communicated facts. This occurred
where the illustrious king had to be placed in the centre of a kingdom
which was prosperous par excellence and ruled in an exceptional
manner; and then, that commanding position could be ascribed to the
wise leadership of the highest ruler himself. It appears to us that
Prapafica has, in view of the requirements of his art, tried to effect a
great moderation and has not made the figure of the king more domi-
nating than was necessary in a panegyric for his glorification, worthy

1 The name Nagarakrtigama is also explained by Berg (Inleiding, p. 61) 2s
“the history of the growth and blossoming of the kingdom

Google FMICH “
20 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

of that name in the Indian fashion. Next to the king, his relatives
usefully play the réle that was left to them in the exercise of
royal prerogatives in government and administration; we also
appraise of the full value of thg personality of the chancellor
of the realm, Gajah Mada, and that at a time when he was
Wready dead: thus there was no reason to flatter or fear that
man-in-power. Nevertheless, necessary caution becomes us as soon as
we proceed to make use of the data that directly concern the king.
Tt is also obvious that in various cases the poet follows the official
way of thinking, which, properly speaking, stood in need of no cor-
rection, neither for us nor for the first readers of the poem. We
mean that, since, for example, the concern of the king with the
Government of his land is measured out in various ways, no body
would believe that the regulations proclaimed under the royal name
have to be attributed to him personally and not much to the insight
of the chancellor of the realm. Moreover, as the extent of the Java-
nese hegemony is assigned over the Archipelago, we can undoubtedly
admit that in all these regions Majapahit laid her claims by virtue of
her supremacy, but we need not believe that this theoretical supre-
macy was everywhere less real and abiding.

We have reason to suspect the partiality of the author in a second
circumstance, and that is in the dignity held by him as the head of
the Buddhist Church of Java. The advantage of the circumstance is
obvious: all what we learn about Buddhism is derived from the best
thority on that subject, and this knowledge particularly increase
the value of the description of the great Buddhistic funeral rites of
1362, as of various other notices. Is it not possible that thereby Bud-
dhism comes much more to the fore than agrees with the actual position ?

That possibility and even the probability can certainly be
admitted, in so far as the poem would have looked positively other-
wise if the author was the superintendent of the Saivite clergy. Per-
haps we should then obtain the description of a great Saivite rite,
though that would by no means be certain because this Buddhistic
funeral ceremony was an occurrence of importance, as testified to by
the Pararaton-chronicle, which, under the few years and facts that
it mentions from this time, has also referred to that great ceremony.
Prapafica decidedly is not biassed in the sense of one consciously
attempting to bring Buddhism to the fore; that appears from
the manner whereby he describes the non-Buddhistic sanctuaries
like the cloister of Sagara or the Siva-temple of Kagenengan with
copiousness and sympathy; that appears also from this, that in his
statement of ecclesiastical organisation which corresponds to the official

Google

INDO-JAVANESE HISTORY an

order of succession (as appears from the inscriptions), the Saivite
superintendent and the Saivite free-holds appear first. That does not
however alter the fact that the predilection of the poet must have lain
somewhere else and that his great respect for king Kytanagara of
Singhasari finds, for example, its explanation in the fervent Buddhism
of that scholar king.

In that connexion we come across the above-mentioned “historical
-cantos’” (40-49) and something more deserves to be said about
them. As we saw, the context is that an old clergyman
relates to the poet the past history of the reigning dynasty;
he commences this with the first king of Singhasari, thus with
history enacted about one century and a half before his own
time; consequently it is no tradition from a hoary past but from a
period still lying near, of which the events could be easily investigated.
just as they have made way, to a certain extent, into the Pararaton-
chronicle, to another extent into the epigraphic sources. The poet
mentions some data and facts for each king; about them he can inform
us decidedly well and he has done so indeed, because where we can
control him on the basis of inscriptions, his statements appear to be
correct. For all this, it continues to be the history of the ancestors
of the king glorified in a panegyric and thereby it is unbecoming of
course that the earlier kings would be placed in a somewhat less
favourable light. Hence we get an official history. Where he can
praise, he js not sparing with his praises; that is notably seen in the
cantos devoted to Krtanagara; where conflict is introduced, the
antagonists of the reigning king are naturally, according to the official
way of thinking, villians and traitors. What yet redounds to the credit
of Prapafica is that where disgraceful passages had to be mentioned
in respect of the dynasty, he has nowhere strained and manipulated
the truth: he has saved himself in a different manner, by simply not
zeferring to it. His narration is inadequate by what has been sup-
pressed; it appears also to be coloured in some measure; but unjust or
untrue is it very certainly not.

To say of a panegyrist that he is, on the whole, perfectly reliable
is no small praise for him. Prapafica deserves this; we may.
under the reservation made above, thank him for the large
number of data on facts and circumstances, which would have
totally escaped us without the possession of this one manuscript.
Still, what invests the Nagarakrtagama with particularly great value
is that the poem as a whole lays strong emphasis on the Majapahit
kingdom and court at the zenith of their power, on the Old-Javanese

Google
22 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

culture in its full development, on the life, which finds sq¢ many sided
an expression in this poem!

The Pararaton. The second individual work that belongs
to the foremost sources for Javanese ancient history in the last cen-
turies was already known for a longer period, but its great significance
was first recognised through the excellent edition of Brandes, with
translation and commentary, from 1896, published as Verhand. Bat.
Gen. 49, ‘Ist part; a much-needed second edition appeared in 1920
as Verhand, 62. Brandes himself has already taken full advantage of
the historical data in this “Book of kings of Tumapel and of Maja-
pahit,”" as he calls it, in the sub-title, and as other sources became
known on the selfsame events, the singular character and also the
singular value of the Pararaton-data came ever more to the light.

While the Nagarakrtagama forms a clear unity and it is not difficult
to understand the purpose and the ground-plan of it, the case is quite
otherwise with the Pararaton. If one glances over the beginning, he
will find there a story, to which one will not easily give the name
history: it appears much more to be a chapter from the adventure-
series from a knavery-romance; if one turns to the end, he finds there
a chronicle: some very briefly formulated facts linked up with years.
In between there lies a piece, whose character is still very difficult to
define, composed as it is of romantic-tales and brief data from historical
events, coupled with notices about family-relations in the royal house.
With a view to consider what worth has to be attached to different
parts of the Pararaton as a source of history—that this work, as a
whole, cannot everywhere be of equal value is no longer doubtful
—we should try to realise more particularly how the work is com-
posed and then attempt a reassessment of the component parts.

The Pararaton, written entirely in prose and in a language which is
no more Old-Javanese, but may be called Middle-Javanese,’ mentions
at the end of the chronicle a fact from 1481 as the last event. Thus,
in its present condition it at any rate came into existence after that
date; but in judging the component parts on their individual
merits, such a date does not of course prove anything. The language
can give here some further indications; it seems that some parts are
decidedly older and must be placed in the Majapahit period. For a
more precise dating of those parts, the necessary basis is still a
desideratum. Indeed, it appears more and more that the products
of the belles lettres were for a long time wrongly held to be the

1 Middle-Javanese is that which, from the view-point of chronology and
culture-history, lies between Old-Javanese and Modern Javanese.

Google

INDO-JAVANESE HISTORY a3

standard in respect of the development of the language—that the
official inscriptions follow an antique chancellory-language was re-
cognised long ago—for the spoken language had already assumed new
forms in the full efflorescence-period of Majapahit, but these forms are
‘hot found in literature before the fifteenth and the sixteenth centuries.
This clarified insight into the history of the Javanese language hampers,
tor the time being, the attribution of particular forms, and of the prose
pieces making use of these forms, to well-defined periods. To go
further than the assertion that parts of the Pararaton are undoubtedly
Majapahitan is not advisable.

As regards the contents, what strikes us in the firet place is that,
next to the main-title of the work “‘Serat Pararaton’’, there is still a
second one: “‘Katuturanira ken Angrok”, the traditions about

. Angrok. Indeed, it is the adventurous story of Angrok’s career that
makes up the first part of the book. Though a son and protégé of
gods who repeatedly intervene in his favour, Angrok grew up among
the rifraff of the people and led the life of a robber and imposter;
at last by a crafty and unscrupulous manner he raised himself at first
at the head of Tumapel, and then became king, the first from the
dynasty of Singhasari and thereby the founder of the Majapahit royal
house. The Pararaton now begins to recount from his adventurous
youth all sorts of episodes, which, by themselves, are not connected
with one another, yet manifestly form a whole in as much as the
earlier adventures are subsequently referred to and the later ones are
brought in connexion with the earlier ones. The individual episodes
are, for the great part, legendary—in chapter X we shall again come
upon them—and could have travelled as loose stories in the mouth
of the people before the author of the “Katuturanira ken Angrok,””
Properly so-called knit them into a whole. At present these constitute
nearly the half of the Pararaton and the purpose of them is to state
clearly how Angrok obtained the supreme power of Java by divine
assistance.

What immediately follows upon the history of Angrok clearly be-
longs to that whole. A cursed kris opened, through assassination, his
way to authority; by this kris he himself and his successor were
killed, and that was again the cause of the fall of the third king. This
is the reason why we do not hear anything of Angrok after his subju-
gation of Java and of both his successors, excepting the manner by
which they were killed, narrated in the selfsame romantic manner
as the preceding one. Still, from the moment that Angrok
became king, something different happens, and that is the mentioning
of some years on the occasion of his accession to thé throne and the

Google
24 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

death of kings, and the reference te the place of their interment. To
the fourth king are then devoted exclusively such brief statements
with dates; the Angrok-romance is finished.

But speedily the Pararaton changes anew its character. The brief
statements, plemented here and there by the previously-mentigned
notice of family-connexions in the Majapahit royal-house, continue
with dates, and as we already remarked, the concluding portion of
the Pararaton gets thereby entirely the character of a chronicle. Never-
theless, the intervening portion that extends from the reign of Krtana-
gara, the last king of Singhsari, to the middle of that of Hayam
Wuruk, presents a quaint and unsymmetrical composition, because we
get here an elaborate and fresh romantic and anecdotal narration of
some events, then again a more or less abrupt and hardly intelligible an-
nouncement of a fact with date, in an apparently arbitrary sequence. |
At first view, one may question himself in bewilderment, what may be
the purpose of this queer composition : if the author wished to give facts
and dates, why do we find here and there, all at once, a romantic
presentation, and if he applied himself to historical stories why does
he betray an unintelligible inconsistency in giving them in one place,
and suppressing them in another?

An effort towards the explanation of this phenomenon may perhaps
afford, at the same time, a key to a not unreasonable solution of the
Pararaton-complex as a whole.’ If we examine the romantic episodes
a little more closely, the selection made by the composer of the Para-
raton does not appear ta be arbitrary; among these episodes there
exists a clear connexion, in 80 far as they may be brought under two:
groups. The first group of this kind is that in which the circumstances
of the fall of king Kytanagara of Singhasari are described, but in which
a great emphasis is laid on the adventures of his son-in-law Vijaya
who, supported by a number of warriors, made himself master of Java
as the first king of Majapahit. The following stories then work out:
how the principal warriors were successively brought at variance with
Vijaya’s son and successor by the machinations of Mahapati, the
chancellor of the realm, and how they were overtumed one after
another. In this way the firet story-group forms a connected whole.

In the second, Gajah Mada is the central figure. At first it is
stated how he drew attention to himself by saving, under difficult
circumstances, the life and kingdom for his royal master, then how he

1 More elaborately described in Tijdschr.” Bat. Gen. 60 (1921) pp. 86-103.
‘At present, one may also refer to the views of Berg, Inleiding tot de studie van

bet Ond-Javaansch (1928) pp. 133-156-

Google :

INDO-JAVANESE HISTORY 25

avenged the death of the murdered king, lastly how he restored the
tottering power of Java in the East of the island, subjugated the forei
possessions and the king of the West, the Sunda-lands. With this
description the romantic episodes come to a close. Thus, there existed
obviously two historical romance-cycles: that about Vijaya’s associates
and that about Gajah Mada. It is not however precluded that both
were linked together by some manner or other, since Mahapati, one
of the important persons from the first, is connected with the opening
story of the second; in that case, there could have existed a history in
romance-form, from Krtanagara’s death to the events with Sunda.

Now, what the writer of the Pararaton has done, we may perhaps
formulate as follows: he had, as his sources, a chronicle on the
one side and the story-complex on the other, and in writing
his work he has accepted the chronicle as the basis; when
an event cursorily noticed in that chronicle was discussed in
the story-complex, he introduced the elaborate description. Now he
could only do so when the episode in question fell within the range of
his romance, but in cases where his other source was silent he had to
rest satisfied with the data of the chronicle, and he could offer no
further explanation. That is the reason of the queer interplay (now to
be considerd not arbitrary, but as an inevitable outcome of the absence
of further data) between chronicle-facts and stories spun romantically;
that is also the reason why the end is exclusively a chronicle.

Besides, we must not, as Berg’ has plausibly shown, lose sight of the
fact that this story-tradition has not only been preserved by the writer
of the Pararaton but also by a number of historical ballads (Kidungs)
borrowed from the same source, which originally must have been only
an oral tradition, put down to writing subsequently. The value of
these kidungs, such as Pafji Vijayakrama, Rangga Lawe, Kidung
Sunda, Sordndaka, Pamaficangah, is for historical research this that
they are not descendants of the Pararaton-stories, but have indepen-
dently originated from the same tradition which underlies the Pararaton.

If the above formulation be correct there may be supposed four
component parts of our Pararaton: the Ken Angrok already existing in
entirety, into which the story of the death of his immediate followers
was also inserted; a chronicle of the kings of Singhasari and Majapahit;
two story-complexes, perhaps aiready combined, resting on tradition;
the accounts of the royal family, probably borrowed from the official
data. It is very well possible that these last-mentioned data did not
form a separate source, but already costituted a part of the chronicle

1 De Middeljavaansche bistorische traditie (1g27) pp. 168-171.
4

Google
26 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

while the author of the Pararaton made use of it. It is he who has
fashioned a continuous work from these all, by first taking the Ken
Angrok, putting into the last part of that work corresponding dates
and facts from the chronicle and then adding the chronicle itself,
thereby shoving in when it was possible, the elaborate details from his
story-complex."

The above explanation, offered merely as a hypothesis, gives some
insight into the great variation of trustworthiness in respect of different
Pararaton-fragments. The chronicle and also the data borrowed from
the chronicle into the narrative pieces will yield facts. From the nature
of the case, mistakes have often crept into them and the dates have
particularly suffered in the hands of the copyists, but the statements
themselves are intended as historical occurrences and are summed up in
chronological sequence. Bereft of mistakes, they may be trusted, or
rather one could have trusted them, when the chronicle had still the
form it presented at the time when the Pararaton-writer began to work
with it. Because,—and this is again one of the results of the research
of Berg’—when the writer of the Pararaton obtained data which were
in conflict with one another, he went blundering, both with the dates
and with the events. We have thus to reckon,‘even in what comes
out of the chronicle, both with the involuntary faults, in which Javanese
and Balinese chronicles are yet all too rich, and with the designs of the
compiler. So the difficulties remain in the recognition and emendation
of faults, but the accounts themselves are, when borne out by the
checking from other sources, generally correct.

On the other hand, the narrative portions as well as the Angrok? are,
above all, a literature in which the question is by no means one of his-
torical truth: history forms merely the background, even though the
chief persons of the stories bear also the names of illustrious historical
personalities. In some cases, this is demonstrable from the documents
at our disposal : if we compare the story of Vijaya’s adventurous journey
with the account which he himself furnishes in the inscription men-
tioned on p. 3, or the account of military exploits during the Chinese
expedition given in the sequence of the same history with the vivid
descriptions of Chinese generals which are extant (see chap. XI), then
the Pararaton does not at all appear to be well-informed of the details;

1 Berg. (op. cit. p. 171) guesses that this took place in Bali between 148
and_ 1600.

2 See Feestbundel Bat. Gen. 1 (1929) p. 27-34-

3 About the origin of the Angrok, see particularly Berg, Inleiding

pp. 152-156.

Google
INDO-JAVANESE HISTORY 27

a well-known historical order of succession of the principal events has
indeed served as a basis, but all the rest is fantastic, and sometimes
what we are told is thoroughly in conflict with the facts known from
other sources. Now, what is distinctly proved in the above-mentioned
cases will, on the whole, be the same in those parts whose proofs
are not available; for this reason, all historical trustworthiness must be
denied to the details of the stories, even apart from their anecdotal
character.

The last part of the Ken Angrok, viz., the romance of the cursed
Kris and what is associated with it, is entirely of the same nature. The
beginning of that work appears to be strongly mythologically coloured;
here also we may suppose historical fact only in a few principal points.
The manner by which all these stories have got their form has been
very differently appraised; it has been suggested that the historical
facts gradually wore away in the course of a long tradition and were
deformed, or also—a very plausible hypothesis'\—that they were
fashioned, in the mind of the history-writer, after a definite mythical
theme, and were accordingly set down. Working from the very low
historical standard of the controllable stories, we deem that this prob-
lem, although of very great importance for a more exact appreciation
of Javangse mentality and Javanese literature, will not bring us, even
when a solution appears possible, much nearer to Javanese history.

The data from the above-mentioned Kidungs which treat the same
subject as the story-complexes of the Pararaton will come up for dis-
cussion in pertinent chapters. It is clear that their historical value must
be assessed by the same standard as that of the Pararaton-stories.

The New-Javanese history-works. Since these
writings, called babads and sajarahs, have also the pretension to unfold
ancient history, one can think that they may be mentioned among the
sources for the whole Hindu-Javanese history. This would not however
be just; the little that they contain of historical nature is, after an
extremely shabby complex that parades itself as pre-history,
exclusively important for the Majapahit period, particularly covering
the period of religious transition.

About the composition of these writings, Brandes instituted a re-
search at the end of his Pararaton-edition (p. 205 and ff.) and building
thereupon, Dr. H. Diajadiningrat presented, as conclusion, a character-
istic of Javanese history-writing in his “Critische beschouwing van de
Sadjarah Bantén”’ (1913). In the parts of the babads which cover the
older period, he recognised indigenous myths and stories, fragments

1 Rassers, De Pandji Roman (1922) p. 295 and thereabout.

Google wv F MICHIGAN
28 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

‘of Indian epic-poems and genealogies, Muslim sacred legends, and
s0 forth,—all worked up together into a tradition which must be
assigned to the first half of the seventeenth century under Mataram
influence. There existed, as Brandes has demonstrated, a peculiar
kind of compilations, handbooks for the students of literature, gra-
dually, short encyclopedias of Javanese literary treasure; and, when
necessity was felt in the Mataram period for renewing tradition with
the past which was broken by the advent of Islam, people drew mate-
rials from them. Likewise, from the interaction with Wayang- lite-
rature were obtained compilations, originally without any chronologi-
cal notion; in the long run, people began to distinguish the periods and
fabricate lists of kings and kingdoms in a fantastical manner and thus
the contradictory reconstructions frequently ran against one another
and themselves, later on dates were added thereto, and thus a chrono-
logical frame was set up which could always be filled up ad libitum
from the story-treasure of compilation-works.! How men proceeded
with this history-writing has since been expounded by Pigeaud* and
Berg.* .

That we shall not even put the query of historical trustworthiness
to a similar amalgam is clear enough. Even where it has some resem-
blance to history at the time of the foundatjon of the oldest Islamic
dominions, so much appears to be borrowed from the’ above-
mentioned corrupt “‘sources’’ that it is extremely difficult to recognise
what historical truth is concealed under it. Properly speaking, this is
only possible when we actually know from other sources what has
happened; then only, fortified with this knowledge, we can investigate
what historical truth is to be recovered in the traditional Javanese his-
tory. Usually, the result is actually so meagre that it makes one shy of
using the few data of babad or sajarah without any expedient for
checking them. In our last chapter, we shall have occasion to risk a
single attempt; it may only be stated here that the more recent
Javanese history-works may not or scarcely be grouped under the
sources for ancient history.

The individual works of this nature (about which one can consult
Brandes, op. cit.) need not be mentioned. The Babad Tanah Jawi
serves as a collective name. A prose-recension of it was edited by

1 Here we follow the exposition of Hazeu in pp. 3-8 of his inaxgural
address, 1921.

2 In Djcwa 7 (1927) p. 348ff and 370-372.

3 Inleiding p. 151 ff. To the Balinese tradition, this characteristic is not
applicable. See the same author, Middeljav. bist. traditie, p. 172.

Google WN OF MICH
INDO-JAVANESE HISTORY 29

Meinsma in 1874-1877 (2nd edition 1884-1899; 3rd edition of only the
first part, 1903),' and hereupon an index was published by Brandes in
Verhand, Pat. Gen. 51, 4th part, 1900.

B. Foreign sources.

The Chinese Annals. Under what is known of ancient
Java from foreign data, the accounts of Chinese authors occupy by
far the foremost place, both qualitatively and quantitatively. While
other sources to be discussed presently enlighten us about a definite
part or a definite period, the Chinese accounts extend over almost the
whole period of Old-Javanese history and throw light on a number of
particulars, This is strikingly borne out when we look over one of the
colder works in which an attempt was made to give a general account of
the history of Java in the Hindu-period. We may refer, for example, to
‘a work like Veth’s Java which was written when only a few inscrip-
tions were published and the Pararaton had yet to see the light of the
day. At a time when indigenous sources were yet muh less known,
but on the other hand, thanks to the labour of Groeneveldt (to be
mentioned hereunder), the principal matter from the Chinese accounts
was already accessible, the structure of Java's reconstructed ancient
history mainly rested on the Chinese data and for that reason they
appeared indeed to be in a position to lay the foundation.

That is all the more remarkable, because it has never been the
concern of the Chinese to relate the history of Java; they only wished
to make known something of the land and the people in the remote
southern ocean, with whom they carried on business and from which
place embassies arrived at the Chinese court. What they have to say
about history is incidental and limited to the Chinese interests in-
volved. Happily, the interests were sometimes considerable and we
are indebted to them for many an elaborate and accurate account of
historical events. In the first place we may refer to the Chinese
expedition which landed in Java in 1293 and brought about a great
change in the internal state of affairs; it is best known to us from the
notices of the Chinese themselves. But in other cases also, accident has
entangled the Chinese in \Javanese history and by doing so it has fur-
nished us with valuable data, as for instance, about the civil war of
1406 when a Chinese embassy experienced the troubles of being in the
capital of one of the parties while it was attacked by the other.

As regards the Chinese descriptions in general, such accounts are
nevertheless the exceptions. The main point continues to be what

1 A new edition, with Dutch translation, is in course of preparation.

Google in
je HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

we are told about manners and morals. This ethnological importance
is all the greater, because the notices begin to appear from quite an
early period, the Chinese prove themselves to be good observers, and
not in the last place because they found it worthwhile to take the
trouble of writing down heterogenous matters. Such data were so
common for the Javanese themselves that they make no mention of
them and which, for that reason, do not appear in the inscriptions,
nor either in a work like the Nagarakrtagama which otherwise contains
many ethnological data. What was noteworthy for the Chinese is
certainly not less so for us. As we have said before, they noted
down accurately, but we have to differentiate between what they
themselves observed and understood, and what they actually observed
but of which the explanation escaped them, or also what they heard
from third persons.

The data of the first category are absolutely trustworthy. Here
are sober eye-witnesses for the statements made: these were actually
recorded by persons who had no reason to indulge in fancies. A note
of caution is sounded only in respect of the “products” which are
mentioned under different countries. The statements are correct in
so far as the Chinese actually came across those things in the land,
saw them ready for exportation, perhaps themselves loaded them. But
whether these things originally came from the land in question or
were brought by native traders from elsewhere is a question which
did not certainly engage their attention. We can safely assert that the
“products” enumerated were present in the lend, but we cannot
say that they were actually the products of the land.

In other cases also, the matter has evidently proceeded in the self-
same manner: the Chinese were not always very far-sighted people:
they sometimes entered into an explanation of which the absurdity is
obvious; they also retold particulars about things which we found
elsewhere or in the intericr, narrated without any criticism and in a
manner which is hardly in keeping with their keen insight and accurate
observation of facts noted by themselves. Nevertheless, it is not our
task to seek for an explanation of it; we deem ourselves fortunate in
this that the notes of the Chinese have preserved much valuable
material for us, and we must only treat the second-hand data with the
necessary caution.

Already the name of W. P. Groeneveldt has been mentioned as
of one wha has collected the principal Chinese data and has published
them in translation. He did this in 1876. in Verhand. Bat. Gen., 39,
Ist part, under the title “Notes on the Malay Archipelago and Malacca,
compiled from Chinese sources; a second edition appeared in the

Google
INDO-JAVANESE HISTORY 3t

Miscellaneous papers relating to Indo-China and the Indian Archi-
pelago, 2nd series, vol. I, 1887, while the author further published
some amplifications in the T’oung Pao 7 (1896), pp. 113-134, as
“Supplementary jottings.””

Among the works, of which extracts have been translated by,
Groeneveldt, the foremost is the so-called ‘Twenty-four historians,”
also called “Dynastic histories", in which each dynasty is separately
treated, its history being written shortly after its downfall, generally
under the immediate successor. The data were drawn from the state-
archives and the literature of the period in question (at least, so far
as the foreign lands are concerned); the same remark also applies to
those cases where the first publication occurred considerably later.
Particularly noteworthy are the history of the Liang-dynasty (502-556),
T'ang-dynasty (618-906), the Sung-dynasty (960-1279), the Yuen
dynasty (1280-1367) and the Ming-dynasty (1368-1643).

The second squrce of particular importance—others we shall not
mention—is the Ying-yai Shéng-lan, ‘‘General Account of the shores of
the Ocean’’ written by the Chinese Mahomedan Ma Huan who accom-
panied the famous eunuch Chéng Ho in some of his great journeys
between 1413 and 1433 and whose description of the various countries
visited by him was published’ in 145]. With unusual clearness and
precision the author records a number of details which are not known
from other sources; these refer to various customs current in Java in
his days.

After Groeneveldt, some other Chinese data have been published :

I-tsing’s works, written in Sumatra between 689 and 692 are parti-
cularly important for the history of Buddhism in the Archipelago.
They are translated and explained, respectively by Chavannes,
“Mémoire composé 4 I’époque de la grande dynastie T’ang sur les
religieux éminents qui allérent chercher la Loi dans les pays
d’Occident,” 1894, and by Takakusu ‘‘A record of the Buddhist reli-
gion as practised in India and the Malay Archipelago,” 18%.

Chau Ju-kua, chief of the custom-house at Ch’uen-chou (North-
east of Emoi), wrote in 1225 his Chu-fan-chi, from which important
particulars can be borrowed about the geographico-political condition

1 After Rockhill, T’oung Pao 16 (1915) pp. 69-73, this question has been
re-examined by Duyvendak in Verb. Kon. Akad. V. Wet. N. R. 32 (1933)
p. 10-14 and by Pelliot in his article ir. T’oung Pao, 30 cited below pp. 241-264.
According to Pelliot the work was written after the embassy of 1413-1415,
cenllarged after those of 1421-1422 and 1431-1433 and edited in 1451.

Google
32 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

of the Archipelago in the beginning of the thirteenth century; it was
published in 1912 by Hirth and Rockhill.

Meanwhile, the data from other Chinese sources have been drawn
upon in a different way and used, at the same time, as construction-
materjals for further research. In this connexion, we attach great
value to the pioneer work of Pelliot, whose results are to be found
in his brochure, “Deux itinéraires de Chie en Inde 4 la fin du Ville
siacle;” Bull, Ec. frong. d’Exrt. Or. [B.E.F.E.O.] 4 (1904) pp. 132-413.
The two itineraries discussed in it have given rise to a treatise based
on a broad foundation discussing as it does all geographical particulars
coming under review, and since one of the two tracks is the sea-route
through the Archipelago, the islands of the South are also drawn into
the investigation, and the oldest category of data has been used for
the first time and in a brilliant- way. Later Chinese relations with
the Archipelago are discussed by the same author in his article “‘Les-
grands voyages maritimes Chionis au début du XVe siécle,” T’oung
Pao, 30 (1933) pp. 237-452.

All kinds of sources for commercial intercourse, specially those of
the fourteenth century, are discussed by Rockhill in his ‘‘Notes on
the relations and trade of China with the Eastern Archipelago and
the coast of the Indian ocean during the fourteenth century,” T’oung
Pao 15 (1914) pp. 419-447 and 16 (1915) pp. 61-84, 114-159 and 236-271;
he also offers at the same time a new reading of a number of passages
already translated by Groeneveldt.

In the most recent years, it was specially Ferrand who kept himself
occupied with the Chinese data, as also with the Arabic, European,
and indigenous ones. His articles “Malaka, le Malayu et Malayur,””
Journal asiatique 1918 [against his views Rouffaer in Bijdr. 77 (1921)],
“Le K’ouen-louen et les anciennes navigations interocéaniques dans
les mers du Sud,” “‘L’empire sumatranais de Srivijaya,” J. As. 1919
and 1922, deserve to be mentioned both under this heading and under
the one following.

The Chinese data cover a greater course of period than any other
of our sources. The oldest mentioning of Java, if the name has been
rightly interpreted, dates already from 132 A.D.—a notice of North-
Sumatra perhaps dates even earlier than the Christian era,—and it
continues, only with a few interruptions, to the days when the Hindu
kingdoms had long crumbled down and the red-haired barbarians, the
Dutch and the English had superseded the Portuguese.

The Arabic accounts. The accounts of Arab sea-
farers and geographers are, in some respects, of the same nature as
those of the Chinese, but in importance they stand far behind. Gene-

Google
INDO-JAVANESE HISTORY B

rally speaking, the statements are brief and economical, very often
second-hand particulars which were obviously borrowed by one author
from another. They have less bearing upon Java than upon Sumat
They only begin in the ninth century; the oldest record of this
character is that of Ibn—Hordadzbeh, composed between 844 and 846.
Further, without their reference-value or importance increasing in any
way, they run down to the sixteenth century. All data of this nature
have been brought together by : .

Ferrand, Relations de voyages et textes géographiques arabes,
persans et turks relatifs a l’Extréme-Orient du Ville au XVIlle siécles,
2 vols., 1913-1914.

For a minor part of the ancient history of the Archipelago the
Arabic sources are of much greater importance, and that is where
they enlighten us about the earliest petty Islamic states in the North-
coast of Sumatra. Although this period (since the close of the
thirteenth century) chronologically falls within our frame of work, we
cannot yet decently include it under the “‘Hindu-Javanese’” history.
We shall be occupied with this pericd only incidentally, specially in
80 far as Java is connected with it. For the same reason we only give
a brief reference to the travels of Ibn Battiita (see Ferrand, I.c.), and
particularly to the data which have come to light in the latest years
from the tomb-stones of the states themselves; it would not have
been unreasonable to menticn them under the inscriptions, but on
account of their special character in connexion with the Arabic lan-
guage in which they have been composed (barring a few exceptions),
they may be mentioned here. J. P. Moquette has devoted a number
of articles to them, to begin with his studies on “‘De oudste vorsten van
Samoedra-Pasé” in Rapp. Oudheidk. Dienst, 1913, pp. 1-12.

Indian and Further-Indian data. While the
sources discussed so far in connexion with their general nature have
prompted us to render a brief account of their characteristics, we
turn at present to the data which can be useful to us only in a few
definite points and whose value, with a view to avoid repetition, can
best be assessed where they are used. Meanwhile, it may be useful
to bring them together in a short survey, and we give here a résume
of the foremost :

From the Indian source, from the Ramayana, astronomical
works, Kathasaritsagara, Mafijuérimilakalpa, etc., we borrow, in the
first place, some old references to Java and other lands or places of
the Archipelago; about them reference may be made to the following
chapter. In the second place, there is a number of inscriptions, of
which a part is extremely important from the view-point of Javanese

5

Google
4 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

history: the copper-plate of Nalanda dating from abcut 860 (Ep.
Ind. 17, 1924, pp. 310-327), the Sanskrit and Tamil inscriptions of the
Cola-kings promulgated between 1005 and 1084 (for literature, see
Ferrand in Journ, Asiat, 11; 20, 1922, p. 44-47 and Majumdar in Journ.
Greater Ind. Soc. | (1934). Nevertheless, the fact remains that we
notice much less intercourse between the colonised Java and the
motherland than should be expected.

From Further-India we also get some. inscriptions for
our research, from Campi, relating to 774 and 787 A.D. (Bergaigne,
Inscr. Sanskr. de Campa, 1893, p. 252, 217) and Cambodge, for
802 A.D. (Finot, BEFEO., 15, 1915, p. 53 ff) and a few more. So
far as the few historical facts are concerned, of much greater value
is the study of the Further Indian inscriptions in general, because they
enlighten us about a society which, in all respects, presents most
remarkable parallels with the Javanese one. This remark applies not
only to Campa and Cambodia but also to the kingdom which were
founded at the same time in present Burma and Siam; with respect
to them, the data have been published only to a limited extent. We
shall also borrow, in our latest chapters, some particulars from Siamese
and Annamite sources.

The Malay Peninsula should be reckoned under Further
India, but as regards the ancient history, we can better consider it
as a part of the Archipelago. Inscriptions have been found here from
the same period as the qldest ones from Java and Borneo (see here-
above p. 4-5) and as appears from later inscriptions (Coedés, BEFEO.,
18, 6, 1918), it was closely connected, in political respect, with
Sumatra. After the Hindu-period, here originated in 1612-1614 the
Sajarah Malayu (latest edition by Shellabear, 1910), in which work
some older traditions are recorded, in a few instances, we can gather
the report of a histerical fact, but in general this material seems to
us to be as unmanageable as the later Javanese history-works dis-
cussed shortly before. Further, a second Malay writing, the Hikayat
rajaraja Pasay [ed. Dulaurier, 1848; romanised edition in Journ. Str.
Br. R.A.S. 66 (1914)], will be treated while discussing the expansion
of Majapahitan authority,

Some Indian traditions, whose antiquity cannct be determined,
and other heterogenous sources, such as a passage from a Tibetan
Saint's life and the like, will be mentioned in proper time.

The European Accounts. Just as in the Indian sour-
ces there are some very old notices belonging to the earliest data on
Java, 20 also the European literature provides us with some very old
information, in particular the Greek. These passages have been dis-

Google

INDO-JAVANESE HISTORY 35

cussed in the following chapter; in the first place we should mention
the name of the Alexandrine geographer Claudius Ptolemaeus who
lived from the reign of Hadrian to that of Marcus Aurelius. In his
Geographiké Hyphégésis (text-edition by Nobbe, 1888-1913; Vatican
edition of the principal manuscript with introduction by Fischer, 1932),
he describes, according to longitude and latitude, all the important
Points known to him of the whole earth, including the Far East.’ His
work really occupies the foremost position, but it is not the qldest
‘one to tell us anything about the Archipelago; the earliest statement,
such as we shall see, is probably contained in the Periplous tés
Erythras thalassés (ed. Fabricius 1883, commentary of Schoff 1912),
probably’ from 70-71 A.D.

After a great interval and after the classical authors, there appears
in 1292 Marco Polo, whom we mention for honours’ sake, even though
he presents meagre data regarding Java (ed. Yule-Cordier, 3rd ed. 1903;
ed. Benedatto 1928, English translation 1931); in 1323 follows Odoric
of Pordenon. The European accounts first become an important
source with the advent of the Portuguese in the last part of the Maja-
pahit pericd, thus in the beginning of the sixteenth century.

In 1899, Rouffaer had already contributed an excellent article about
the historians coming within our purview in the Bijdr. Kon. Inst. 6: 6,
p. III ff., amplified in Bijdr. 77, 1921, and 86, 1930. On the basis of
these articles, the principal authors are described below.

The Livro of Duarte Barbosa, written‘in 1516 by an author who
himself was in India, is of unusual value. It is known to us in three
texts; the first is an Italian translation published by Ramusio, Delle
navigationi et viaggi 1, 1550 (2nd publ. 1554); then a Portuguese edi-
tion, copy of a copy, published in 1813 (reprinted in 1867), of which
Longworth Dames offered a translation (Hakluyt-Soc.) in 1918-21;
lastly, the English text of Stanley from 1867 (also Hakluyt) written
after a Spanish translation, This Spanish text is, in relation to, the part
of the work that comes up for our consideration, better than the
Portuguese one.

1 For the part relating to India, see Renou, La géographie de Ptolémée,
Inde (VU, 1-4), 1925, and Berthelos, L’Asie ancienne, centrale et Sud-orientale
apres Ptolémée (1930). Ptolemy is the starting-point for Gerini’s Researches
on Ptolemy's Geography of Eastern Asia, 1909, in which much important mate-
rial has been brought together, but of which the conclusions have rightly been
adversely criticised in various respects.

2 The date is not certain; varying opinions place it between 6o and 105
AD. See also Frick Le Périple de la mer Erythrée (1927).

Google
36 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

Castanheda, Histéria do descobrimento e conquista da India pelos
Portugueses, an excellent and impartial historical work, of which
books 1-7 were published between 1551-1554 and 8 in 1561, while 9
and 10 have been lost;! third edition since 1924.”

De Barros, Da Asia, a work of rich and mature intellect; first part
1552, second 1553, third 1563, the fourth one was left over unfinished
and completed in 1615 (reprint 1778 etc.). This official chronicler had
access as such to the relevant archives-records. A number of docu-
ments from the Portugese state-archives saw the light in 1892 as
“‘Alguns documentos de Archivo Nacional da Torre do Tombo dcerca
das Navegagées e Conquistas Portuguezas.””

When we mention herewith the Commentarios do grande Alfonso
Dalbuquerque, published by his son in 1557 (reprint 1774, English
translation by Gray Birch 1875-1884, Hakluyt; ed. Baids 1923), and the
Cartas of the same (ed. Bulhéo Palo, 1884-1903), we may conclude
with the journal of the Italian Pigafetta who lay off Timor in a
Spanish ship (of Magalhfes, eskader) in 1522 and noted what he had
heard there; the work was published for the first time between 1524
and 1534 in French translation (ed. Denucé 1923) and in 1894 in ori-
ginal text’ as ‘“‘Relazione sul primo viaggio intorno al globo.”

For the remaining sources of this nature, we may refer to Rouffaer.

In the end, it should be remembered that in the modern customs
and institutions of Java, Bali and India, manifold data for reconstruct-
ing the past lie concealed. It is of course impossible to include them
in a list of ‘'Sources.””

CHAPTER II

The advent of the Hindus

Not a single positive account has reached our hands to lift the
veil of obscurity concerning the manner in which and the time
when the Hindus came to Java. These can only be surmised, with
more or less probability, on the basis of lights projected by various
indirect data. Regarding the state of affairs which they found in
the island nothing is known with certainty. Only it seems clear
that here, as elsewhere in the Archipelago, they did not come into
an uninhabited island, but that there existed a population of the
Malayo-Polynesian race.

1 Of the nineth book, 31 chapters have been recovered, Wessels in Bijdr.

Kon, Inst., 85 (1929) pp. 1-65.
2 To us, Vols. I (1924) and II (1928) are important.

Google

INDO-JAVANESE HISTORY 37

OF thie population it may also be admitted on good grounds
that they originally did not belong to the island but came from
outside, that is to say from over 3 they scattered themselves and
came across older inhabitants. These inhabitants are considered
wholly or partly to belong to, or to be related with the Veddas or
Negritos; evidence of their earlier presence is still found not only
in some tribes of the interior (the Sumatran Kubus and the like),
but also, be it in a very differing measure, in the blood-mixture
of the present Indonesian population. We shall of course not
treat this matter, which belongs to the domain of Anthropglogy.’

The Indonesians who would have partly pushed away or killed
the original inhabitants and partly have got mixed with them
displayed a remarkable measure of mutual resemblance. It is not
therefore wrong to suppose that they had a close contact existing
from earlier times and also a common land of origin. An attempt
to discover the situation of that terrain was made by Kern® in 1889
exclusively ongthe basis of philological data. When we wish to
study Hindu-Javanese history, it is not of paramount importance to
know whence the Indonesians precisely came from, once it
understood that they were settled in .their new habitations in the
beginning of their history, in any case for some centuries. Even
then, it is essential to pause for a moment over Kern's research,
as tl enlightens us somewhat about the cultural position of
the Indonesians at the time of their influx. .

The method followed by Kern wi to trace some common
words employed in all Malayo-Polynesian (at present we call it
Austronesian) languages known to him with regard to certain
objects. These words must have been brought over from the land
of origin and the objects in question offer an indication of .the
circumstances in which the people lived. Elsewhere, the method
would have been attended with grave danger on account of the
possible later borrowing of one language from another ; in this case
that objection is not so convincing, because some of the islands
where these words are found are so situated that later intercourse
with the outside world, though not impossible, must be deemed

1 General surveys are given by Kleiweg de Zwaan, Physical Anthro-
pology in the Indian Archipelago and adjacent regions (I.C.0. Comm, der
Kon. Akad v. Wetensch.), 1923; Ned. Tijdschr. v. Geneesk, 1924, pp. 30-34,
Science in the Nederlands Hast Indies (1928) pp. 192-206; they are givon in
moro elaborate and popular form in De rassen van den Indischen Archipel
(1925). As for Java, cf. Nyvsson, The races of Java, 1929.

2 VG. VI, pp.105-120,

Google
38 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

highly improbable, and because one can ascertain whether the
words follow, in every respect, the phonetic system of the pertinent
language and were thus preeent from the beginning.

To begin with, there are a number of plant-names from the tropics:
sugar-reeds, cocoa, pisang, bamboo and cane; the most important
one of this category is the word for rice. Since béras properly signi-
fies “‘fruit,"" and elsewhere the word for rice appears as “food,” ii
is clear that rice, the fruit par excellence, was already in cultivation
asa principal article of food. The Eastern islands got the plant and
the name first from the Europeans; they were thus separated before
their tribal brothers were acquainted with rice or they lost the recol-
lection of rice-cultivation through their settlement. on the islands
where the plant did not grow. In any case, the removal has been
from the West to the East, not the reverse.

. Besides the appellations fora number of sea-animals, there are
still other words ‘which refer toa sea-faring people, viz., those for
boat, sail, paddle, oar. The land of origin has thus t@ be sought by
the sea. Under the animals there are many which one finds almost
everywhere and which thus have little characteris (dog, pig, hen,
etc.) ; most probably the buffalo may also be reckoned under the
common animal-names, and perhaps also the domesticated horned
beast. As regards the mineral objects, iron must have been known
in the land of origin, and it is noteworthy in this connexion that some
phratries, who have shunned intercourse with foreigners as much as
possible, have surpassed all other members of the family in the
dexterity of working iron ; the fact that in most languages pandai,
properly ‘workman,’ is used, particularly for ‘smith’, also shows the
knowledge of metal-work.

As the result of Kern’s research concerning the cultural standing
of the Indonesians, it can thus be said that while they were yet
together they were a sea-faring people, and thus they must have been
acquainted with a little of Astronomy’. They knew the cultivation
of rice, worked with iron and perhaps kept horned beasts. For
further views we may refer to the article itself, particularly for the
method by which he further argues that the land of origin must have
been definitely situated in Campa, Cambodge, Cochin-China, along
the sea. We must now restrict ourselves to mentioning the further
view of Ferrand” who combines the results of Kern and brings them

1 VG. VI, p. 24.
2 J, As. 11s 12 (1918) pp. 120-125 and 11: 14 (1919) p. 201,

Google ' se iceioaN
INDO-JAVANESE HISTORY 39

into relation with the thirteenth-century data of Ibn Said’, and thus
tries to prove that the ancestors of the Indonesians originally lived?
in Upper-Asia, as the. neighbours of the Chinese; being ousted by
the latter they trekked along the valleys of great rivers, the Irrawaddy,
the Salween, the Menam and the Mekong towards Further India
Ferrand places the first migration in the beginning of the first mille-
nnium before the Christian era, and fixes cir. 500 B.C. for the
second migration which drifted towards the Malay peninsula and
the islands of the Archipelago.

In most recent years researches in the domain of the pre-historic
archaeology have made it possible to amplify and correct the results
obtained from philological data.’ As the oldest human relics int the
Archipelago we may point to the remains of the Homo Mojokar-
tensis*; then follow the skulls of Wajak which betray relationship
with the ancestors of the Australians’; since similar finds have been
obtained from the Malay Peninsula and Indo-China and these last
ones contain Melanesian characteristics, we can think of an Australo-
Melanesian population who scattered themselves over large parts
of Asia and the Archipelago.’ In Indo-China,” where the massif of
Bac-son has particularly great significance as a pre-historic find-place,
it was discovered that a connexion existed between these human
remains and the relics of a palaeolithic culture which also spread
over the Archipelago and is definitely met with in Sumatra; there
it is represented by roughly moulded tools of stone, of a character
which in Europe is called Chelléen-Moustérien, as well as of a type

1 Relations, II, p. 316.

2 Also Pater Schmidt, Die Mon-Khmer-Vélker ein Bindeglied ewischen
Volkern Zentrat-asiens und Austronesiens (1906), especially pp. 35 ff, referred,
on linguistic grounds, to Central Asia as the land of origin, ‘The arguments
are not deemed convincing by experts.

3 A survey is given by Van Stein Callenfels in Jaarb. Bat. Gen. 1934
pp. 81-106 and Von Heine Geldezn in Ann. Bibl. Ind. Arch. 9 (1936)
pp. 26-33,

4 Oppensouth, Wet. Med. Mynbouw 20 (1932) pp. 49- Tidschr. Aardr.
Gen, 49 (1932) pp. 704-707; Von Kénigswald, Centralbl. {. Mineralogie 1933,
1, pp. 29-42.

5 Dub
86-887.

6 Heino-Geldern, Die Steinzeit Siidostasiens, Sitzungaber. Anthr. Ges.
Wien 1926-27, pp. 47-54, Van Stein Callenfels, Bull. Raffl, Mus. 1986,

7 Results of the research are given by Verneau, Les récentes découvertes
préhistoriques en Indochine, L? Anthropologie 36 (1924) pp. 42-62. and Mansuy,
Préhistoire et protohistoire in Maspero, L’ Indochine I (1929) pp. 83-92;
the same, La préhistoire en Indochine (1931).

in Versl. Kon, Akad. v. Wet. afd. Nat, 29 (1920) pp. 88-105,

Google
4o HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

in which one side is left off un-worked, which type has been
christened as the Sumatran type. A later phase observed in
Indo-China and the Malay Peninsula, in which ceramics, the
so-called rope-type, appears, does not seem to have reached
Sumatra’. In the last-mentioned island the culture of the Sumatran
hatchets, if we leave aside stray finds,” is particularly to be met with
in the shell-hills of the North and the East coast rubbish-heaps
originally formed under water below the pile-dwellings on the
coast but at present lying some miles in the interior; among the shells,
whose contents served as food, we also notice hatchets, planes,
points, rubbing-stones, stampers together with dressed bones, red
ochre, remains of ashes and wood.’ In Java also, similar remains,
perhaps somewhat later in date, have been discovered, though not
from a shell-hill but from the lowest strata of the cave of Sampung
near Panaraga; here and in Bojanégara, the rope-ceramics were
found for the first time. The results of this investigation have not
yet been published.‘

A later culture-phase, whether lying on the boundary between
palaeolithicum (Magdalenian) and mesolithicum, or in the mesolithicum
itself (Azalean-tardenoisian),is perhaps represented by what the Todla-
caves of Lamoncong in Celebes have yielded: stone-tools, arrow
and spear-points, knives, scissors, and further bone-objects and some
pieces (imported) of ceramics, these articles being ascribad to a
mixed culture partly connected with pre-historic Japan. All tl
yet very problematical’.

With the neolithicum and the ancestors of the modern Indonesians,
we tread upon a somewhat more solid ground. It is again in Indo-China
that we come across pure “Indonesian” skulls’ as well as antiqua-

1 See Van Stein Callenfels in OV., 1925, pp. 174-193.

2 On the find of the first real palaeolithic tool (on Sumatra’s east coast)
see Van Stein Callenfels in OV, 19%, pp. 127-193,

3 See, besides Van Stein Callonfels also Van Heurn, Studién betreffende
den bodem van Sumatra’s Oostkust (1924) pp. 29-34 and Schiirmann in De
Mijningenieur, 1928, pp. 225-243 and Tijdschr. Aardr. Gen. 48 (1931)
pp. 905-933.

4 A brief notice is given by Van Stein Callenfels, Pre-historic remains
in Poenoeng, Sampoeng and Dander, Fourth Pac. Se. Congress 1920, Exe,
E. 5; OV, 1929, pp.23#. Homm. Congr. Hanoi 1932, pp. 16-54 and Tijdschr.
Aardr. Gen, 50 (1933) p. 122-127,

5 Sarasin, Materialien sur Naturgeschichte der Insel. Celebes 5, 1 (1905);
Van Stein Callenfels, Javabode, April-Juni 1934,

6 Verneau, Les cranes humains du gisement préhistorique de Pho-Bin-
Gia, L'Anthropologie 20 (1909) pp. 645-559,

Google
INDO-JAVANESE HISTORY 4r

rian remains which, as appears from the ornaments, are undoubtedly
Ur-Indonesian. Polished and sharpened hatchets, wedges, etc., often
of very beautiful form, belong to this Austronesian culture-asset; 80
also bronze objects with characteristic Indonesian forms and orna-
ments, to be compared with much, that still is being executed in
the Indonesia of the present day’.

It is particularly Van Stein Callenfels and Heine-Geldern who
have devoted themselves to the study of the hatchet-forms? and have
tried to fix some dates; this latter fact is naturally of great impor-
tance, because the terms palaecolithic and neolithic have no chrono-
logical significance for the Archipelago, they merely indicate a
definite culture-position: even now-a-days a part of the population
of New-Guinea lives in the “‘stone-age.” Van Stein Callenfels
successively inguishes four periods in the hatchet-types: (1) hatchet
jutting out into a point, with oval, elliptical or lens-shaped profile,
which is still in use among the Papuans, and also appears in Further
India where the kinsmen of the Melanesians have lived; (2) one type
rectangularly cut off on the back-side, equally high and broad, with
arched top and bottom ; (3) one class developed therefrom, with quad-
rangular backside and rectangular side-levels, clumsy in form; and
(4) the beautiful hatchet-forms of Java, with rectangular transversal
profile. Heine-Geldern divides the neolithicum of the Archipelago
into two great groups, the broad-necked, quadrangular or trapex
so sharp-necked with lens-shaped profile of the East-Indonesian
group, ‘and the fine, graceful, carefully dressed hatchets of the West-
Indonesian group, Sumatra, Java and Bali, often drilled from valu-
able stones. The border between the two groups coincides with
that between the West-Indonesian and East-Indonesian languages.”

If we now compare the finds from the fourth period, those of
the West-Indonesian group, with what has been left in Indo-China by

1 Goloubew, B.P.F.E.O. 29 (1930) pp. 1-46.and Ann. Bibl. Ind. Arch.,
1930, pp. 12-14; Janso in Bull, Mus, Far East, Aus. Stockholm 3 (1931)
PP. 99-139 and Steinmann in Rev. d, arts asiat, 11 (1937) pp. 122-187; for
remains in modern life, Colani in B.E.P.£.0. 36 (1937) pp. 197-280 and 479-489,

2 On the first-named scholar see particularly the literature already cited
and also a note in Science in the Netherlands Eust Indies (1928) pp. 287-290;
also Heine Geldern in Ein Beitrag zur Chronologie des Neolithikums in
Sidostasien, Festchrift Schmidt (1928) pp. 809-843; the samo, Urheimat und
fritheste Wanderungen der Austronesien, Anthropos 27 (1932) pp. 643-619; the
same, Vorgeschichtliche Grundlagen der kolonial indischen kunst, Wioner
Beitr. 8 (1934) pp. 5-40.

8 Jonker in Enc. v. Ned. Indie 11* (1918) p, 146; Van Ronkel in Science
in the Netherlands East Indies (1928) p. 335.

6

Google
42 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

the tribal kinsmen, we can assert that at a given moment a separation
has taken place. On the north of a border-line drawn through the
Malay peninsula, the hatchet of the Austro-Asiatic Mon-Khmer peo-
ple has developed the tooth-hatchet or shoulder-hatchet (called aft:
the tooth-shaped projection), which is wholly lacking in the Arct
pelago; to the South of the line, one finds the Malay people with a
pointed hatchet or gouge, triangular or semi-circular on the trans-
versal profile.

The tooth-hatchet still appears among the Mundas of India who
were formerly partners in the Mon-Khmer culture and who on philo-
logical grounds clearly betray even now traces of the relationship."
At present; they have been pushed back into the highlands; formerly
they had much greater territory in their possession which they yield-
ed before the impact of the Aryans. And now, here is the possi-
bility of a dating. The expansion of Austro-Asiatic culture must
have preceded the arrival of the Aryans in the Ganges valley, which,
at the latest, may fall in the sixth century B.C., and the separation
between the Indonesians and the Mon-Khmer people has again to be
placed earlier than this expansion which carried along the tooth~
hatchet. By a rough estimation we arrive at + 1500 B.C. as the date
of introduction of Mon-Khmer culture into India and + 2000 B.C.
as that of the advent of the Indonesians into the Archipelago. Now,
if there are three periods of culture-phases preceding the Indonesian
pointed hatchet, then we may admit that the neolithicum began
between + 3500 and 4000 B.C., and as the palaeolithicum is still
older, the earliest phase perhaps goes before 5000 B.C. It is evident
that these calculations are extremely rough and it is as much obvi-
ous that this research, which is only in its infancy, has the least
pretension to bear definite fruits as yet. .

What has been well establiched is the recognition of Further
India as the place from which the Indonesians came to the Archi-
pelago. At the same time the similarity of the finds in Indo-China,
Malay Peninsula and Sumatra offers a presumptive evidence for the
course which was followed in some cases. We say in some cases,
because if one thing is clear, it is this, that to think of a single great
influx from Further India to the Archipelago and no more, would be
too simple a conception of the course of events. Particularly evident
is the presence of other culture-streams which, as appears from the in-

1 Especially Sylvain Lévi in J, As, 203 (1923) pp. 1-57, ef. Hevesy, Orient.
Litt, Zeit 39 (1936) pp. 273-288.

Google
INDO-JAVANESE HISTORY 43,

vestigations into the Philippines, reached the Archipelago from the
North,"

That there have been from time immemorial much more migra-
tions, displacements, journeys by land and sea through South-Asia
and the Archipelago than was surmised previously and that the
underlying relations are much more complicated than was deemed
possible at the first acquaintance, becomes more and more plausible
as the investigation into other regions is becoming deeper and many-
sided. Likewise, attention may be directed to some remarkable
facts. In his study on the boat-types of India and the adjacent lands,
Hornell? comes to the conclusion that the Archipelago is the home-
land of that peculiar sort of ship, which is provided with outriggers
for the sake of stability. Of the outrigged proas, there are some
with one and some with two outriggers, and it is noteworthy that
‘one finds the type with the single outrigger all over the west (west-
coast of Sumatra, etc.) and all over the east of the Archipelago, .
while the zone of the double-outrigged proa (which moreover appears
in Madagascar) lies in between. According to Hornell, the single
model may be peculiar to the original population who have been
designated by him as Negritos and Proto-Polynesians; in between
those places, the Indonesians who had come from Indo-China, should
have spread themselves in the shape of a fan, and the double-
outrigged-type should have developed with them. But it is most
important to know what the author has observed on Southern Indi:
where clear somatic indications peculiar to the people of the
Archipelago subsist with some castes. Among the Paravars, who
were formerly pearl-fishers in the gulf of Manar, the single-outrigger
is in vogue (and was already in use in ancient times according to the
oldest informations); so these may be the survivors of a great Poly-
nesian influx to the West. Next to them, the caste of Shanars has
particular similarity in anthropological respects with the Indonesi
they do not engage themselves in navigation (and thus cannot furnish

~ the proof of a double outrigged proa!), but are cultivators of the
cocoapalm, which is not indigenous Indian and was introduced
from the Archipelago via Ceylon: the Shanars should then form the
remnant of a second influx from East to West, after the advent of
the Indonesians.

One may not find these arguments to be very convincing; that

1 Van Stein Callonfels in OV 1929, p.23; Van Heckoren in Tijdschr.
Bat. Gen. 77 (1987) pp. 269-276.

2 Mem, As. Soc. Beng. 7 (192) pp. 199-256, particularly pp. 226-235;
also Madras Fisheries Bulletin 12 (1921), No. 2

Google
44 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

there is more than a mere po: ity behind is affirmed by the
research of Sylvain Lévi, which has been referred to shortly before.
It brings him to the question: what the Austro-Asiatic culture,
which has left its trace on the Mundas, could have contributed, in
political and social respects, to the later Indian. Next to it, the
question may doubtless be put how far the ancestors of the Indo-
nesians could have been involved in bringing about what in historical
times was known as the Hindu culture of India. It seems not
impossible that, when the Indians went to colonise the East, they
did not strike a new path, but did in a reverse direction what the

ime people of another race from the East had done in a
remote past.”

In ment

ning these youngest researches, revolving still in their
‘ipient stage, we only wish to indicate what possibili till lie
concealed in the pre-history of the Archipelago.

We must now pause over a question where a difference of
opinion exists, whether we have to reckon with a fact from pre-
history or whether the fact was enacted after the Hindu colonisa-
tion. It relates to Madagascar. We had occasion above to speak of
the double outrigged proa which appears there and which could have
been introduced there by the Indonesians; that indeed they came
to Madagascar and that the Malagasi is an Austronesian language,
are no longer doubted.’ The matter imply, at what time this
influx took place, and since direct historical data are entirely lacking

1 Cf. Pigeaud in Djawa 7 (1927) p. 380; Heine-Geldern, Beitrag p. 810,
mentions also the possibility of Austro-Asiatic influx, before the development
of the tooth-hatchet in West-Indonesia; in this way the Mongoloid race-charac-
teristics occurring there have perhaps to be explained. See also Chatterji in
Tijdschr Bat. Gen, 68 (1923) pp. S7ff, Gonda. Austrische Arisch (1982), and
Majumdar in Journ. Gr. Ind. Soc. 3 (1936) pp. 86-96.

2 Sowhen Craighill Handy in Bull. Bishop Mus. 34 (1927) pp. 312-220 and
Transac. $rd Pan-Pacific Science Congress (1928) pp. 2469-2462 tries to indi-
cate some (rather doubtful) similarity in the religious conceptions and usages
of India and of the islands on the periphery of Polynesia, that could have beon
explained in two ways. Besides signs were found on a rock in one of the Mai
quésas-isles looking like letters (Linton, Bull. Bish. Mus. 23, 1926, pl. XID)
in any case, none of the letters belong to the Pallava-script which was brought
over to the East by the first Hindus, but they associate themselves moro readily
with those of the Majapabit period. See the present author in Jaarb. Kon.
Akad. v. Wet. 1931-82 pp. 200-202,

3 The language mostly looks like that of Nias; the customary law bears
relationship with various parts of Indonesia. Soo Van Vollenhoven, Het
adatrecht van Madagaskar, Med. Kon. Akad. v. Wet, Afd. Lett., 54 (1920)
p. 1-19, and Dahl, Norsk Tidsskr. { Sprogoid. 10 (1987) pp. 189-235.

Daan
Google -
INDO-JAVANESE HISTORY 45

Madagascar, our only way is to see what the language ha:
yield to us. This contains a number of words of Sanskrit origin
and, in,as much as emphasis is laid on the fact of their presence
or on their poor number, one can deduce that Madagascar was
colonised by Indonesians after or before their Hinduisation. The
first view has found a convincing supporter in Ferrand,’ the last
one is that of Grandidier.2 In these cases, no judgment is to
be expected from an author who has never studied the Malagasi,
still we give it as our opinion that the words cited by Ferrand make,
in comparison with the Sanskrit element in the Indonesian languages
of the Hinduized part of the Archipelago, a rather poor impression,
and it is not clear, why the geographical position of Madagascar,
to which this author refers, could have the consequence, that the
Indonesian colonists would introduce their own language with a much
poorer supply of Sanskrit words than they themselves used. It appears
much more probable to us that the language brought over to Madagas-
car was an Indonesian without Sanskrit, such as we have to
surmise for Java and Sumatra before the advent of the Hindus, and
that the Sanskrit words in the Malagasi, which originated from that
imported language, owe their origin to later intercourse which conti-
nued to subsist between the Archipelago and Madagascar even after
the Hindu colonisation of the Archipelago’; to this later intercourse
the report of Edrisi‘ refers, that in his time (1154) both parties’ could
understand each other’s language. The first sea-journey of the
Indonesians to the far West and the so-called colonisation of the
island must, in our opinion, be placed before the advent of the
Hindus in the Archipelago, and associated with the drift towards
India, which we have spoken above.

Besides what we can surmise of their navigation and of other

1 J. As. 11: 14 (1919) pp. 62-68 and the older literature cited there.

2 Histoire physique, naturelle et politique de Madagascar IV (1908) p. 10
and 75 ff. The Melanesians, ete., came from the East of the Archipelago
before the beginning of the Christian era, while the ruling class was desconded
from the historic Javanese immigration of the 16th century.

3 To that later intercourse, both of Java and of Sumatra, attention has
been drawn by Mublenfeld who devotes some consideration to this question in
Djawa 7 (1927) pp. 232-237; Hornell, l.c., p. 231 supposes, by turns, a Poly-
nesian and a “Malay” (North coast of Java) immigration.

4 Relations I, p. 173.

5 Properly speaking, the discussion refers to tho population of East
Africa, but according toFerrand, the Malagasis have been intended. Ona
remarkable resemblance between the music of Indonesia and Africa see Kunst
in Tijdschr, Aardr. Gen. 52 (1935) pp. 294-296.

Google
46 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

arts bequeathed to posterity the pre-Hindu Indonesians have
left behind the indications of their presence in still other remains
of antiquarian nature than the discoveries of hatchets etc. spoken
of above. These are in the form of menhirs, dolmens and what is
connected therewith; these we find both in Hinduised regions, where
they have been attributed to ancestors vanished long ago, and in
the non-Hinduised islands where the Indonesians erect them even
now. It is easy to see in them a general custom of by-gone days,
that has gradually faded away where the Hindu culture penetrated.

Before we enter into further details, we must acquaint ourselves with
the method by which scholars working with these stone monuments
have tried most recently to reconstruct the oldest culture-history of
the Archipelago. This effort emanated from the English anthropologi-
cal school with which the names of Rivers and Elliot Smith are con-
nected, and which began to devote its attention to the megaliths about
the Mediterranean sea and the adjoining coas they thought they
could explain these from a common culture in which the erection of
such monuments was attended with the worship of the Sun, and which
had their cradle in Egypt. Afterwards, the same kind of investiga-
tion was extended to similar phenomena from other parts of the
world, and this has been done, so far as the Archipelago is con-
cerned, by Perry in a study entitled: ‘The megalithic Culture of
Indonesia,” 1918. After restricting himself in this first study, in
order not to take into account factors of a different nature,
to those parts of the Archipelago which remained outside Hindu
and Islamic influences, he has, in 1923, tried to work up all avail-
able data of the whole world in a concise survey in his work ‘“‘The
Children of the Sun.’*

His method of procedure and reasoning is now this, that he begins
by tracing how the spread of the great stone-monuments occurred
in the islands under his observation, and moreover how the drilled
and undrilled stones and heaps of stones, places of sacrifice, graves
and seats of stone are found in various places, how these things stood
in close mutual connexion. From this it can be stated that every-
where stone-work was made especially for the chiefs: the use of
stone should thus have been introduced by foreigners who had raised
themselves to leadership. Other objects are also found in just. the
salfeame regions, stone-worship and stone-traditions, but also Sun-
worship, thus the Sun asa fertilising element is brought in. One
then finds irrigation by means of terraces, a priesthood with a faith

1 Public. Univ. of Manchester, Ethnol. Series 3.

Google
INDO-JAVANESE HISTORY 47

in heaven, rice-culture and the knowledge of metals. All these things
owe their origin to the immigrants accustomed to use of stone (who
had probably penetrated in search of gold and other valuables), from
whom the later chiefs and priests have sprung up. Of their superior
culture, much however has been lost.

All this has been discussed in the first of the two books above-
mentioned, and the second one works out the point still further and
also discusses what ielands were Hinduized. Two culture-streams are
then admitted, the first emanating from a people with megalithic
monuments, irrigation, metal work, and with kladi as food; the
second one originating from the Hindus with rice and stone-temples.
Both are, properly speaking, of the selfsame origin and go back to
Egyptian culture, but in between those two the connexion with the
West was severed. Again, not only here but also in America or
wheresoever, the bearers of that very culture are from Egypt, the
Children of the Sun, with all that has already been summed up above,
and yet with many things more: a dualistic political organisation,
totemism and what not,’

As Perry’s theory has already found many advocates, we have
treated it somewhat elaborately, more elaborately than it, in our
opinion, properly deserve: It rests on scanty and one-sided
material and we consider this to be unsound. Beside, the flaw in the
reasoning seems to be that from the appearance of a certain group of
phenomena in the same places asa second group, an inner connexion
between those two groups is concluded, notwithstanding the fact’ that
they are to be met with elsewhere separately and unconnected.
What is, for example, the connexion between the megaliths and the
rice-culture that is cultivated in numerous tracts without there being
any stone-monuments? The geological nature of the land is left out
of consideration, and yet this alone can determine, here and there, the
use of stone, and this alone can make a particular irrigation possible.
The difference in the treatment of stone-monuments for the chiefs
and the commoner is easily explained, because the former possessed
the means to carry out all that work for their benefit; the huge stone-
monuments in the European churchyards represent, beside the wood-
en pickets of the modest churchyards, the very same thing, without
any racial distinction or immigration. But the main difficulty is this:
the possibility that a similar thing might be brought into existence in
two places or two periods out of the same necessity, is absolutely

1 On p. 407, one findssummed up the fifteon charactoristics of this “first
food-producing civilization."*

Google
48 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

eliminated. Not unjustly Blagden, to whose excellent criticism’ we
owe part of the things mentioned above, has remarked that we must
almost believe, that nowhere can anybody pick up a stone to fling at
‘a bird without a foreigner first coming from a far-off land to tell him,
how he must do that!

If we are thus entirely unwilling to follow Perry in his adventurous
journey, it cannot be denied that by cautiously utilising this sort of
data we can get some insight into the state of affairs of the times
before our historical sources appear. In a region like Central
Celebes, Kruyt has observed,’ for example, a series of four stocks
who have successively left behind the traces of their presence there.
Among them there are the ‘‘stone-cutters’” who cultivated some
grain, worked with small bronze hatchets and understood the art of
baking pots; as appears from the vessel-shaped construction of their
houses, they should have come across the sea. Penetrating along
the rivers, they came across a Polynesian folk of lower culture, who
nourished themselves mainly with Kladi, did not even then bake pot-
teries but cooked the food in bamboo-sheaths, were also acquainted
with the old Polynesian oven (a hole in the ground with a ring of
white-hot stones), used as weapons bow and arrows, as clothes strings
of leaves and barks of trees. The stone-cutters and these Kladi-folke
were inter-mixed and they ranged themselves against a third folk who
came from the South and was a class of Malay; tl the so-called
sirih-folk, who chewed betel, brought the iron-smiths along with them
and cultivated rice on dry fields (which is uncertain in respect of the
stone-cutters). The moist rice-cultivation was in the end introduced
by a fourth folk, that of the aristocrats, under whom we may seek the
ancestors of royal houses who had already come strongly under the
influence of Hindu-Javanese culture.*

We deem ourselves incompetent to judge these conclusions on
is clear, even though they are susceptible

their own merits, yet il

1 J.B.A,8,, 1919, pp. 614-617 and 1924 pp. 713-718. Also Schrieko in
Tijdschr. Bat. Gen., 66 (1926) pp. 532-541 adversely criticises these theories.

2 Seetho survey in Vierde Koloniale Vacantiecursus voor Gevgraphen,
1928, pp. 11-17; also Tijdschr. v. Zendingswetenschap 68 (1926); Hommage
Hanoi (1932) pp. 1-15.

8 Lokkerkerker in Kol. Tijdschr. 16 (1927), pp. 600-617 distinguishes five
successive stages in the land-cultivation of the Archipelago: that of pure
appropriation or collection of nature-products; that of the cultivation of
tuberous plants, vogetables and fruits; that of the cultivation of indigenous
coreals, that is to say, vorts of millet; that of indigenous grains and rico
on temporary and permanent acres, with an ever increasing application of
irrigation as a result of the predominance of rico-cultivation.

Google
INDO-JAVANESE HISTORY 49

to modifications it is possible to draw inferences from the data of
this nature and that these inferences will not hang in the air like
those of Perry. In the second place, we see how many movements
and transformations are outlined, and we may reasonably admit
that this was no less the case in Java, even though the traces are much
less distinct, in consequence of the later activity and dominance of
Hinduism and Islam.

If we now briefly review what remains are yet to be found in
Java from the pre-Hindu past,’ we can begin with the great stone-
monuments, already mentioned. In the East of the island, the
division of Bandawasa and its suburbs, we come across stone-coffins,
deep and oblong in shape, with vaulted lids and sometimes primitive
decorations, as well as dolmens, in the form of a ring of upright
stones with a lid-stone lying above. As we still find both these
kinds of megaliths, for example, in Sumba, where they are in vogue
side by side, it is obvious that those in Java have also to be attri-
buted to an old-Indonesian people of similar disposition as the
Sumbanese. Besides we cannot, of course, suggest that with the
advent of the Hindus such customs ceased all at once; on the
contrary the people, even under the gradual pressure of new ideas,
must have held fast to them for a long time,the longest from the nature
of the case where the Hindu influence could exert itself least power-
fully, and indeed this influence can only be observed at a relatively
late date in the East part of Java. Thus one cannot definitely dub
such antiquities as pre-Hindu, but they may rightly be attributed to
people who already lived there prior to the advent of the Hindus.

Certainly it will be extremely risky to apply the present Sumbanese
phenomena, which crop up in connexion with the stone-monumente,
to Java of the ancient period; still, a description of the manner by
which the dolmens are set up” has also proper value for forming an
idea of how it was in times gone by. First of all, men place the
supporting stones, then put round about a wooden frame-work with
inclined plane, drag the lid-stone above along that frame, plant wed-
ges between the lid-stone and the supporting stones, then break down
the frame-work,and lastly strike the wedges slowly so that the lid-etone
comes to stand on the supporting stones. Only afterwards is the
moment to go under the dolmen andto dig the proper grave. In

1 Inletding I, pp 121-126; for further literature, sce Van der Hoop in
Geschiedenis van Nederlandsch-Indié I, (1938) pp. 3748.

2 Kruyt, Tijdschr. Aardr. Gen. 38 (1921) p. 627. of. 636 and 641;
photographs in Rouffaer, Ethnographie van de Kleine Soenda-eilanden in

beeld (1937),
7

Google
50 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

Ja along with the corpses, have been found specifically many
beads (of a class which is observed in various parts of the Archipelago
and also outside), but also stone-objects, amongst others, a tool to
unhusk grains, besides bronze rings for arms and legs, and iron lance-
heads or small swords. The bronze is particularly represented in the
stray finds of the celts, etc. ; the stone tools, found individually, are.
as was to be expected, neolithic.’

Besides the coffins and dolmens, excavated caves are also notice-
able in the rocks of the Eastern part of Java. It will not be difficult
to put anumber of places together where the same three kinds of
remains, individually or collectively, are met with elsewhere in the
Archipelago, but such an enumeration has, generally speaking, little
utility. Rather shall we fix our attention on the rest of Java and on
the other large Hinduized island, viz., Sumatra. Of Java, it is remark-
able that the megaliths, discussed so far, are, in the main, confined to
the Eastern part”. What we on the other hand find over nearly the
whole of the island are the series of terraces laid in the lofty mountain-
ranges which, where they are best preserved, are characterized by
heaps of stone with some up-right huge stone-spires. Parallels may
be found in various non-Hinduized islands, and here also it is clear
that the terraces were used and venerated long down into the Hindu
period; with some, that is indeed the case even up to the present
moment. While, as said before, similar terraces in the mountain-
ranges are peculiar to the whole of Java, it is again ina specific
part, the west, that they are, toa great extent, fitted with rude and
often almost formless images; these were formerly designated as the
Pajajaran-images (after the West-Javanese kingdom of that name, in
whose territory the first examples had been met with), later on styled
as Polynesian images (a name which, in its generality, is much better,
provided we do not read there any antithesis to the Indonesian) and
are, at present, held to be the images of ancestors. The mega-
liths, properly so-called, and the images of ancestors do not, or as
good as donot, appear together. It is only in the western part of
Java that we find up till now the so-called pre-Hindu inscriptions,
incisions on the face of rocks, with human figures, drawn summarily
here and there.

For Java, it would thus be possible to think of two different

1 For literature, see Van der Hoop, pp.372ff. and for the beads cf, JRAS.,
1937, pp. 467-470.

2 As one of the very fow examples from West-Java, the stone-piles on the
Gunung Guliga in Buitenzorg deserve to be reckoned as a dilapidated dolmen
(ny. no. 58),

Google
INDO-JAVANESE HISTORY 5

“folke”’ ; but the experience in Sumatra does not make it tempting to
draw a sharp line between the two. Indeed one finds there the self-
same things, but partly in other combinations; eo there are regions
where stones of the approximate type of Java’s eastern part’ and the
“Polynesian” images are present (Tapanuli, Palembang, Deli).
Images are also met with elsewhere (Pad. Uplands, Batak lands,
Benkulen, Lampongs); the inscriptions are represenited in the Upper-
Kampar, the caves in the Eastern coi The relics of two ‘‘folks’”
thus pass through each other, but it is noteworthy that there appears
to be yet a third set of remains. er

The antiquities from the Pasémah-
lands’, which are still somewhat enigmatical, present again a totally
different picture, which is all the more remarkable, because a varia
of coffins and dolmens lies in the nighbourhood; the big, vigorously
hewn human figures with large eyes, protruding jaw and thick lips,
in their equipment of cap-shaped covering for the head, the protection
for wrist and legs, present to us an entirely new type; in many cases,
they ride on or fight against an elephant ora bull, Single images,
with rectangular back-part, might have supported a structure.

As yet the origin of this art has not been traced; nevertheless one
can somewhat circumscribe the uncertainty. Tous it appears to be
precluded that this art should have been ranged indirectly under
Hindu-influence and (as has been proposed) could have come from
Hinduized Further India. On the other hand there appear certain
traits not dissimilar to what we observe in a later phase of Javanese
art which was intensely subject to Indonesian influence and of which
we shall have something more to say in chapter XIll. This should
thus lead us to the supposition of a non-Hinduized population of a
part of Sumatra who had come into relation with the megalith-builders’,
and probably themselves built such monuments, while their art
and method of presentation have parallels with what appears later
‘on in Java as the Indonesian element. Though it is very well possible

1 Reproductions from Upper-Jambi are to be found in Ned.-Indié Oud en
Nieuw 7 (1922) p. 81, from Bali, Ibid., 13 (1929) p, 313-316, ef. 0.V. 1930
p.50. As for the stone-monuments from Apo-kajan in Bornoo See 0.V., 1929
pp. 162-164; for Sumbawa, Kuperns, Het cultuurlandschap van West Soem-
bawa (1936) p. 189; for Contral Celebes—Kruyt, De West-Toradja’s op Midden
Celebes (1938).

2 Seo Van der Hoop, Megalithic remains in South Sumatra (1932)
with additions by de Bio in Tijdschr. Bat. Gen. 72 (1932) pp. 626-636 and Vonk
Ibid., 74 (1934) pp. 296-300.

3 Also Van Eorde, Jaarv. Afd. Volk. Kol. Inst. 1929, p. 24 points out
this relation.

Google .
52 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

that the people who brought this art came from elsewhere, they must
be viewed, in our opinion, to bear certain relations with the Indo-
nesian art. This is confirmed by the fact that on the back of one
of these figures a kettle-drum has been recognised by Van der
Hoop, and these kettle-drums belong to, or are related with, Indo-
nesian culture. If the attempt to bring the origin of these people
to light once succeeds—and the strong pronounced character of
the representations raises some expectetions of this—that will perhaps
make us wiser about their relation with the builders of the megalitl
~ The above may, for the impossiblity of gaining a clear conception.
confirm the conviction how many and complicated phenomena still
demand explanation. At present we turn back to Java and wind up
our survey of what is to be surmised of the state of affairs before the
Hindus with the special study devoted to this subject by Brandes’.
If Kern has made it clear, such as we saw above, what should be
reckoned asthe common heritage of the Indonesians, Brandes has
busied himself entirely with Java and has propounded his well-known
“ten points,” wherein he has summed up the progress achieved by
the Javans before the arrival of the Hindus. These ten points com-
prise that the Javans knew (I) the wayang, (2) the gamélan (3) a dis-
tinct metric, (4) the batiks, (5) the work of metals, (6) a monetery
system, (7) comparatively a good deal of knowledge in navigation,
(8) astronomy, (9) rice-cultivation on irrigated fields, and that they
(10) had a very ordered state of administration, “all of which they
did not borrow from the Hindus.”

Of these points, a set of three agrees with what we have already
adopted above, after Kern, as the common property of all Indo-
nesians; we need not therefore further discuss points 5, 7 and 8,
except recording the fict that, so far as metal-work is concerned,
Brandes particularly maintained that the art of working with brass—
as appears from the old-Javanese word (masingyasingyan)—was not
taken over from the Hindus. If we look over the remaining points,
it leaps into the eye that all of them are not equally important and
all do not rest on equally good grounds.

So point 4, the batiks, can readily be scrapped off from the list.
The reasoning that this art is something pure Javanese, that it bears
witness of good schooling and that it has never been supposed that
the Javans have learnt it from the Hindus, is already very scanty.
and, as can be ascertained now, also probably inaccurate. Since

1 Tijdschr. Bat. Gen. 32 (1889) pp. 122 f.

Google
INDO-JAVANESE HISTORY 3

the great work of Rouffaer and Juynboll over the batik-art' has
brought together all relevant data, it may now be admitted that, in the
Archipelago, the batik-province is essentially Central-Java plus
Eastern Java and it does not appear in other Indian islands (excepting
solitary instances where it is to be explained as imported from Java]
it is to be noted further that the entire Coromandel-coast of India is
historically and technically the classic land of mass-production and
mass-exportation, we know with certainty from the Portuguese,
while in Java itself the reports about the batik as an industry are very
late; moreover it has, since the oldest notice from the foundation
of Majapahit up to the nineteenth century, remained a court-art.
Rouffaer therefore deemed it to be very likely that the batike were
brought over from South-East-Deccan, for example with the flourish-
ing of East-Java in the days of Airlangga; that firet as a foreign art
it was applied in the higher circles only, and became at a consider-
ably later time what it is now.

We may add here that already very old images of deities (long
before Airlangga) present cloth-patterns, and though there is natu-
rally no pressing reason to deny that these should be a batik-work,
it is yet clear that the patterns are wholly different from the later ones
and thus, there is in no case a tradition going back to the oldest
times. Of the set of ornamental clothes under the deferential gifts
of old inscriptions no specification is given. In the course of the
Hindu-Javanese centuries, a change might have occurred, because
in the court-circles Javanese batik-art came into existence in imit
tion of the Indian, either the cloth thus manufactured stepping into
the place of imported batikans or into the place of what we call, for
the sake of convenience, Indonesian clothing. In any case, it is
long after the commencement of Hindu colonization that the “‘pure-
Javanese” batik-work comes into existence; this is to be explained as
the typical Javanization of a process which originally proceeded
from Indi

1 De Batik-kunst in Ned.Indié en haar geschiedenis, 1914. For an
opposite view, soo Locbir, Texticle versieringen in Ned.-Indié, 1914. Copious
illustrations are yet given by Jasper and Pirngadio, De inlandsche kunstni-
jverheid in Ned.Indit, HII, 1916; a résumé of the problem in Rouffaor’s
article “‘Batikken” in the Enc. V. Ned.-Indit id ed., 1, 1917. pp. 192-203,

2 Meanwhile, Van Noubuys in Ned.-Indié Oud en Nieww-10 (1925) pp. 111-
122 has drawn attention to a distinct indigenous wax-batik of Contral-
Celebes which, combined with the data of Mindanao and the Sunda-lands,
perhaps indicates the} existenco of an Indonesian, not-Indian batik-art. It
does not yet appear that thie discovery must necessitate a rovision of
Rouffaer’s conclusion, Cf. Tijdschr. Bat. Gan, 78 (1938) pp. 158-162,

Google
A HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

The above considerations we may profitably use in respect of
points | and 2, wayang and gamiélan, which in the same manner
and on the same grounds as the previously mentioned batiks pass
for original Indonesian, We only know, with greater certainty, the
existence of the wayang in the Hindu-Javanese period from a com-
parison, drawn from the wayang, in the Arjunavivdha (str. 59), thus
in the time of Airlangga. This shows, at the same time, the in-
accuracy of the tradition which places the invention of the wayang
during the time of the kingdoms of Kadiri and Janggala, thus after
ngga. The Javanese character of the wayang, in the sense that
it is un-Hinduistic, was thought by Brandes to be proved by the fact
that the termini technici are Javanese and not Sanskrit, ‘‘so that
the question of borrowing from the Hindus, who had indeed a differ-
ent theatre, does not arise, even if it be a fact that the most impor-
tant kind of wayang (the wayang purva) definitely handles themes
of Hindu origin.”

These are familiar words: the pure Javanese words, and the
words not found with the Hindus. As for that, is the pure-Javanese
nomenclature of technical terms a satisfactory proof? The expe-
rience with the batiks enables us to answer the question in the nega-
tive; with the batiks also, these terms are already Javanese. Even
now-a-days, one can indeed observe how a pure native designation
for the imported products of European industry which are, to the
Javan, entirely new, comes into vogue in a short time, and this
should prevant us from drawing ahy conclusion from Javanese names
regarding the originality of the thing in question. Moreover the
opinion that the Hindus had no shadow-play reste on an error;
though our knowledge of the ancient Indian Chaya-nataka is still
meagre, its. existence does not any more admit of doubt.’ Over and
above all this, if one takes into consideration that the wayang is
met with in none of the other Indonesian islands excepting Java and
Bali, that the above-mentioned passage in the Arjunavivaha definite-
ly refers to the wayang purva, and that just this type of wayang exclu-
sively deals with the Indian theme (borrowed from the Mahabharata),
one can hardly escape the conviction that it would be arbitrary
4 priori to eliminate the Hindu-element here.

1 Pischel, Das Indische Schattenspiel, Sitzungsber. K. Preusz. Akad.
a, Wiss. 1208, pp. 482-502; Jacob-Jensen-Lorch, Das indische Shattentheater
(1981); ef. Jacob in Zeitsche. D. Morg. Ges. 89 (1935) p. 387-390. That the
wayang beber should be derived from the Indian Yamapata is the opinion of
Coomarswamy, History of Indian and Indonesian art (1927) p. 89, For
Coylon see JRAS., 1930 p, 627.

Google WN oe ncuicaNy
INDO-JAVANESE H!STORY 55

It is often urged that the wayang in its religious and ritualistic
significance stands in the closest relation to ancestor-worship and
that the shadows are no other than the spiritual fore-fathers; this is
put forward as an argument for the pre-Hindu character of the
wayang. In our opinion, there exists, in this case, a certain misunder-
standing. That the wayang is interwoven, tothe sentiment of the
Javan, with the most typical phase of his very existence, and along
with that, with his animistic past, need not be denied. The ancestor-
worship, as it appears from the data of non-Hinduized islands, is to
be regarded as original ; that itis coupled with arite is obvious;
that this rite should be the shadow-play is unproved but conceivable,
even though nobody knows how that play looked like. For; as soon
as we make the acquaintance with the wayang, the shadow-ancestors
appear to be Hinduized into the Mahabharata-heroes. Now, as
regards the wayang, one can think of a course of events similar to that
for the batiks: the Hinduistic shadow-play, first staged in the court-
circles, penetrated little by little among the people, adapted itself
to the existing—to a certain extent similar—ritual; by doing so it
acquired, with the retention of the subject-matter, that typically-
Javanese exterior and for the sentiment of the Javans themselves, the
connexion with the forefathers which satisfied a vital want (also
through the magical character of the old ritual) and formed an essen-
tial part of Javanism. One can also formulate it thus: a pre-Hindu
ancestor-ritual, in which puppets or shadows were perhaps used, but
of which the particulars are not known to us, passed, after the intro-
duction of the Hindu-culture, through such a pronounced process of
Hinduization from the point of view of its subject-matter that its orig’
nal condition cannot be known. With both these reasonings fits the
conclusion, that the wayang, i.e., what the Javans of the present age
know as wayang, is a Hindu-Javanese creation.’

The gamélan, inseparably connected with the wayang, parti
pates in the arguments on the last-named question, here also the terms

1 On the wayang, see particularly Hazeu, Bijdrage tot de kennis van het
Javaansche tooneel, 1897; also Kats, Het Javaansche tooneet I (Wayang poerwa),
1923, Jacob, Geschichte des Schattentheaters (1925) and Bezemer in Kol,
Tijdschr. 17 (1928) pp. 353-871. For the supposed Chinese origin of theso
shadow-plays, Goslings, Ind. Gids 1926; this was also the opinion of Van der
‘Tuuk who further considered the rice-cultivation on irrigated ficlds (see below)
to be of Chinese origin. Of-particular importance is the research of Rassers,
Over den oorsprong van het Javaansche tooneel, in Bijdr. Kon, Inst., 88
(1931) pp. 817-450, where the Ur-old Indonesian and Indian ritual that lies
hidden in the wayang is rediscovered in the ceremonies of the male-house,

Google :
56 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

are mainly Javanese; moreover itleaves the impression (according to
Brandes) of a music which has been pitched to a culminating point
and of which the masterpieces have continued to be preserved amidst
the disappearance of the less beautiful; this phenomenon also
proves a high antiquity. If (what we doubt) such a conception of the
music be correct, can there be—we ask—any reason to place that
culminating point before the advent of the Hindus? In central
Javanese inscriptions, the music has sometimes been mentioned with
the festivities’: what the words used there precisely signify we do not
know, but we can surely see that they sound entirely different from
the component parts of the gamélan named in the oldest available
passages.? Moreover, even if the surmise that a Barabudur-relief
gives a representation of a very old gamélan-combination® appears not
to be tenable, one nevertheless must admit, on the above-mentioned
ground, an alteration in the composition of the orchestra in course
of the Hindu-Javanese period: in other words, the gamélan, such as
it is in use at present or rather the gamélan, to which the present one
directly reverts—because it was altered in a later period—should have
come into existence within the Hindu-Javanese society.. It is evident
that an accurate research on wayang and gamiélan is necessary before
we can pronounce a definite judgment,‘ but it is, in our opinion, no
longer advisable, without further proof, to attribute both of them to
the pre-Hindu Javans.

Of much less importance than the points discussed up to now are
nos. 3 and 6 of the list, and the argumentation by Brandes is more-
over very cautious, in part even hesitatingly put forward. Regarding
metrics, he himself admits that no older traces of a possible specific
metric of the Javans could be discovered than in the oldest kidungs
which, as appears from the language, are posterior to the kakawins
(composed in Hindu-metres)} he thinks nevertheless that the develop-
ment of the pure-Javanese metres (témbang, téngahan, macapat) can-
not be explained through Hindu influence, because, in that case, a
slavish imitation may have to be expected; moreover, the Hindu-
metres appear to be used for the Indian subjects, the Javanese ones

1 eg. KO, I, pl. 8, 1.12.

2 Vrttasaficaya 93 and Bharatayuddha 664: tudung(an)=flute,

salunding =génder, and (only in the last passage) Kamanak=cymbals.

3 Barabudur, 1920, p. 706. For South-India, cf. JRAS., 1924, p, 233.

4 On the gamélan, see also Kunst and Kunst-van Wely, De toonkunst van
Bali (1925) pp. 69-72 and pp. 142-177, and on the music-instruments in general,
Kunst (and Dr. R. Goris), Hindoe-Javaansche muziekinstrumenten (1927),
and Tijdschr. Bat. Gen, 68 (1929) pp. 347-356).

Google
INDO-JAVANESE HISTORY ‘7

for indigenous themes. The force of this last argument ie again nulli
fied by the following admission that this last phenomenon occurs in
the later (Middle Javanese) language. Hence, the issue does not
necessarily rest with the theme, but can be a simple chronological
question. Now it is a fact that in Javanese culture-history, an original
indigenous asset wa: many respects thrown into the background
by the strong Hindu-influence and, with the weakening of that influ-
ence, was again able to assert itself later on. Besides, the close
connexion between Javanese metrics and phonetics forms a weighty
argument in favour of the high antiquity of metres.” On the other
hand, attempts have been made to explain the Javanese metres
as originally connected with the Hindu ones, but inguished there-
from by strong native peculiarities. These studies have not yet
yielded definite results. ‘

The distinct monetary system of the pre-Hindu Javans may be
represented by a typical coin-form which has been found only in
Central Java and which may be compared to the extremity of the
stick of sealing-wax, whereupon the stamp is affixed.? Next to
it, we find in all Java the so-called ma-coins of silver, of which the
Nagari letter ma indicates their Indian ori ce some coins of
the sealing-wax-stick type present letters in the old-Javanese script,
which is later than the (pre-) Nagari, Brandes considered it to be plau-
sible that thie was originally a kind of Javanese coin which suffered
modifications through the influence of the Nagari. Even when it is
considered (as by the present writer) to be an error that the legends
on the so-called ma-coins are Nagari ma@—in which case the coins
would be so called very improperly—there can be no doubt that the
coins in question were originally Hinduistic; that is already evident
from the stamp on the reverse. On the other hand, that the sealing-
wax-stick type of coins should be original-Javanese is made im-
probable by the circumstance that the letters on some of them are
in the Old-Javanese and not in the Pallava script which chronologi-
cally precedes it in Java. Had this been the case, one could perhaps
imagine that the existing Javanese coin-type was stamped, after
acquaintance with Hindu-culture, with the just-introduced Hindu-
letter, and gradually made room for the Indian coin-type itself. But
we do not at all meet with the Pallava letter and consequently we
should have to assume: firstly, that all examples from the period

1 Borg, Inleiding tot de studie van het Oud-Javaansch (1928) pp. 67-69.
2 Reproductions by Millies, Recherches sur les monnaies des indiganes
de UArchipel indien et de la Péninsule malaise. 1871, pl. 1.

8

Google
8 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

between the introduction of Hindu-culture and the origin of Old-
Javanese script have been lost, and secondly, that during all these
centuries the antique coin-type was current and though the Indian
type was already in use for a long period, the original-Javanese was
still coined. It appears to us that all this is not very probable. With-
cout thus being able to give certainty to the points 3 and6, we should
nevertheless prefer to scrap at least the latter from the list, for
safety’s sake.

Two points remain still, and they are not the least important.
We shall first deal with the rice-cultivation on irrigated fields. Here
also the argumentation of Brandes rests on the language of the
Javanese technical terms; the Javan, as it appears from inscriptions,
knew his irrigation-system already at an early part of the Hindu-
period; if he had learnt it from the Hindus, some at least or all the
designations for aqueducts, bridges, dykes, overflow, water-ce:
water-distribution, sprouts, and so forth, should have been called after
the names usual with his teachers.

That the Javanese technical terms, considered on their own merit
do not form a satisfactory proof of the originality of the things con-
cerned appears already to be clear from the above, but nevertheless
the’ conclusion cannot yet be rejected, because the case here
stands ona different footing. In the case of the batiks the terms
appear just at the end of the Hindu-Javanese period; as regards
wayang and gamiélan the terms appear in the eleventh century, i.e., at
a time when a mighty shifting of culture was clinched in the Javanese
direction. Now, so far as the irrigation is concerned, the relevant
inscriptions are considerably older, and the earliest one brings us to
the ninth century, when the society bore a much more Hinduistic
impress; therefore, the Javanese names have here a force of evidence
Nevertheless, there is no denying that the
ninth century is some centuries later than the advent of the first
Hindus; during the interval much could have happened as regards
the impress of a native stamp ona custom imported from Indi:
There is still something else. In all the cases cited above there exists
the possibility (and in our opinion, even the high probability) of the
usage in question coming into existence during the Hindu-Javanese
period. But this is precluded in respect of rice cultivation on irrigated
fields. The Hindus were acquainted with the artificial irrigation;
either they introduced it in Java or they already found there what they
themselves also possessed. Where we are confronted with sucha
choice, the un-Hindu terminology in a society which is otherwise very
Hinduistically tinged, may prompt us to give preference to the second

Google
INDO-JAVANESE HISTORY 59

of these possibi What we observ: other Indonesian islands
does not stand in the way of this assumption; notably, the highly-
developed rice-cultivation in the non-Hinduized Philippines is an
argument of importance." -
As to the ordered state of administration, Brandes has remarked
that without this the system of rice-cultivation on irrigated fields
is not even conceivable ; though one has no need of high or fine
culture for that end, it is clear that a certain organisation in the
community with exactly regulated rights and duties is necessary;
in that connexion, one ean certainly also think of a political
organisation. In the context of these arguments one must study,
according to Brandes, Javanese form of government, Javanese
titles, Javanese proceedings, in the ancient inscriptions. Here also
we do not intend to take up the argument in this form—what is
called Javanese here is decidedly un-Hindu, but could have very
well originated in Java during the Hindu-Javanese period from a
conjunction of Indian and Indonesian elements—but the conclusion
may be accepted on another ground. Among the oldest inscrip-
tions, there is one in Sanskrit, and this presents titles of high dis
taries which are purely Indonesian. Now either these are the relics
of old-Indonesian functions in the Hindu-Javanese society, or they
are the first signs of the gradual Javanization of the imported Hindu
element. Against the latter view there are two things: even though
an indigenous nomenclature gradually came into vogue, the then
existing Sanskrit equivalents should have been retained in the
Sanskrit verses of the inscriptions. In any case, with the increase
of Javanization the names in question no longer appear in later
inscriptions. They were thus in reality the rudiments, not capable
of being covered by any Sanskrit equivalent, of old-Indonesian
dignities which only befit an ordered state of administration. _
We recapitulate: it is not at all necessary to suppose a specific
culture which should stand as a match against that of the Hindus.
The latter, however, did not certainly come into the midst of
savages. We think that the sedentary population was, to some
extent, politically organised at that time, practised rice-cultivation
on irrigated fields along with the complicated system of irrigation
connected with it, possessed knowledge of navigation and stars,
worked metals, (viz., bronze. copper, iron and gold) and probably

1 For the rice-cultivation, see also Lekkerkerker in Kol. Tijdschr. 16
(1937) pp. 607. and Med, Ned. Java-Inst. 5 (1929) pp. 1-13, Ho also denies
that the Hindus exorcised any important influence on agriculture in Java,

Google
60 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

kept domesticated horned beasts. In one portion of Java the dead
were entombed in megaliths in the form of coffins and dolmens; every-
where in the island, terraces were constructed in lofty mountain-ranges
or were cut out as places of worship, probably ancestor-worship
in particular, in which heaps of stone with upright spires and crude
images played a certain role. As to the rest one may form some
idea of the ment of these people after what is termed as general
Indonesian in ethnology’. With regard to this aspect, the old sources
ate however silent. Generally speaking, Sumatra must have also
presented traits of close relationship with Java, although traces of
different combinations and of entirely un-Javanese relics are also
to be found there,

The oldest data, in so far as the earliest sources about the relations
between India and the Archipelago can be dated, are contained in
the Periplous tés Erythras thalassés which has been mentioned before.
It is a work on trade and navigation with countries in the East;” though
of uncertain date, it can probably be placed about 70-71 A.D. ;°
at the earliest it can date from 60, at the latest from 105. It seems
that the West had a brisk trade with India ;* this involves consi-
deration specially of three great harbours on the Western coast
for Hellenistic (i.e. mainly Egyptian) ships. These are Barygaza
(§ 41, the Indian Bharukaccha, modern Broach, on the gulf of
Cambay near Gujerat) in the North,® and at the Southern extremity,
Muziris (§ 54, ise. Muyitikotta, the modern sea-port of Kranganur
in Cochin) and Nelkynda (§ 55, near Kottayam, at the mouth of
Bakare, i.e., Porakad, still distinguished by the Portuguese as
Porcai), both also known to Pliny.* The direct trade with the West

1 An attempt, which appears to us to be successful, to picture the pri-
mitive conditions in Java on the basis of such general data, is made in tho
first chapters of W. Fruin-Mees, Geschiedenis van Java I? (1922).

2 Regarding this trade in gonersl, see Warmington, The commerce between
the Roman empire and India (1928).

3 We follow hore Kennedy in J.H.A.S., 1916, pp. 835-837 and 1928,
pp. 106-114. Different datings are summed up by Van Eorde in Tijdschr.
Aard. Gen, 45 (1928) p. 581; one can also find there further particulars on
commercial intercourse.

4 This is a consequence of Noro’s Eastern policy, which promoted direct
intercourse with India by eliminating the Arabians. See .Kornemann in
Janus I (1921) pp. 55ff.

5 Only for the time being; seo Lévi, J. As. 228{ (1936) p. 63,

6 Naturalis Historia VI, 23 § 104ff. We do not of course enter here
into the question of the various identifications; for these one can refer to
p. 32 of the edition of Fabricius previously mentioned as well as the commen-
tary of Schoff, and the article of Hornell cited before.

Google
INDO-JAVANESE HISTORY 61

evidently halted there. but the importance of the two Southern
ports undoubtedly lay. not only in their hinterland, but also in the
further inland navigation in the East, because, beyond the gulf of
Manaar lay three more trade-ports, Kamara, Podouké and Sopatma
(§ 60, recognised, so far as the first two are concerned, as Kaveri-
pattanam or Karikal, and Puducheri, i.e., Pondicherry, while the
position of the last port is not yet satisfactorily determined); it ie
explicitly stated of these three in the first place that “the things
which come from Egypt”’ were imported there, and further that
they had commercial transactions with a land which was called
Chrysé and with the region lying at the mouth of the Ganges.
The position of Chrysé is very vague to the author; he considered
itto be an island in the sea fronting the mouths of the Ganges,
yielding excellent tortoise shell and constituting the extreme ea:
of the inhabited world (§.63), but in a preceding passage Chrysé
is the extemest eastern continent, also in the neighbourhood of
the Ganges. We cannot from these data go further East, but we
can go to the North where we reach among others, the Thinai.

The idea is therefore this, that the Ganges streamed through the
furthest East and a Gold-land or Gold-island or both lay in the neigh-
bourhood. The author had naturally obtained this knowledge from
Indian informants; when we shall make acquaintance with a Gold-
land and a Gold-island from the Indian sources, the former localised
in Further India (Burma), the latter in the Archipelago, it will not
appear too risky to draw inferences from the data of the Periplus that
there existed in the middle of the first century trade-relations between
the South-Indian ports and the Gold-lands of the Far East; in any case,
the lands were known to the Indian sailor: That no proof of coloni-
zation is implied is quite evident. We particularly direct our attention
to the circumstances that itis just the South Indian ports which are
mentioned in respect of the trade. In connexion with the later data
there are yet two other important points: Barygaza, the great empo-
rium of the North near Gujerat, already stood, besides its relation to
Greek and Indian* commerce, in direct connexion with Arabia and
these relations were partly maintained through Arabian 8 (§21 and
27). Further, Ceylon is mentioned only very incidentally ; probably it

1 Cuddalore? Desikar in Q. J. Myth. Soc, 21 (1930) pp. 120ff.

2 The tortoise has remained an important commodity in the Archipelago;
Seo Rouffaor and Ijzerman, De eerste schipvaart der Nederlanders naar Oost-
Indié II (1925) p, 221.

3 Also the overland route right across India started here. Fleet, J.R.A.S.
1901, pp. 537 ff.

Google
62 INDO-JAVANESE HISTORY

was not yet the important trading centre it became some centu-,
ties later’, perhaps in connexion with the development of the Chinese
trade since the fourth century.

Next to this somewhat vague possibility of commerce between
India and the Archipelago in the first century of the Christian era, we
can perhaps mention a still older reference to relations with China.
In a passage brought to light by Pelliot® from the Ts’ien-han-shu
(annals of the Han dynasty; 206 B.C.—24 A.D.), reference is made to
navigation from South-China to the lands Tuyiian, Yi-lu-mo, Chanli,
Fu-kan-tu-lu and Huang-tche. Since the time of emperor Wu (140-
86 B.C.), these large and populous islands presented tributes; from
these places particularly came pearls and precious stones, which the
people brought there from other places; the people, whose customs
were similar to those of Hai-nan, maintained, next to this trade, a
Pirate’s existence. Emperor Wang Mang (1-6 A.D.) sent presents
to Huang-tche and asked a living rhinoceros in return. From the time
that this passage became well-known, many attempts have been made
to locate the cited lands in different places, and thus Huang-tche was
localised both in Aby: and in the Malay Peninsula as well as at
Kaficl in Southern India*. Van Eerde made the suggestion that it
may be sought‘ in Acéh, both.on the ground of that Indonesian royal
present, the rhinoceros, and on that of the intermediate trade in pearls
and precious stones (the conformity with Hai-nan also tallies here
better than in the case of Abyssinia). Agreeing with this view, Lamster
has reconstructed the probable route of Chinese trade at this time
in connexion with the monsoon-winds:* firstly, along the coast of
Further India, then, across the Malay Peninsula towards the North-
and North-western coast of Sumatra, thereafter Sumatra’s East-coast,
the North-coast of Java and the little Sunda-islands and then again
along the Southern side of Celebes and Borneo. It is evident that
we have todo here exclusively with possibilities, which still await
confirmation.®

1&5, Cosmas Indicopleustes, who wrote in 647 on the strength of
his earlier experiences as a merchant (Ed. Winstedt, 1909).

2 In T’oung Pao 13 (1212) pp, 457-460.

3 Cf, Ferrand in J, As, 11:18 (1919) pp. 451-455 and 11:14.(1919) pp. 45-
50, and Van Kerde (see the following note) p. 590.

4 Tijdschr. Aardr. Gen. 45 (1928) pp. 589-592. 5 Idid., pp. 991-998,

6 It is noteworthy that Chinese ceramics of the Han-period have been
found in Western Java, parts of Sumatra (Tulangbawang, Batanghari dis.
tricts, Eastern slopes of the Barisan Mt.) and Western Borneo, See do
Flines in Jaarb. Bat. Gen, 8 (1986) p. 209 and 4 (1987) pp. 176-178; cf. Lamster
in Tijdschr-Aardr. Gen, 54 (1987) pp. 20 ff.

Google
HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR 63

If we now return to the western data after the Periplus we see
that in the second century Dionysius Periegetes also appears to
know the Gold-island in the extremest East, though without having
anything new to offer." But at the same time Claudius Ptolemacus*
gives us different and more accurate information of the geogra-
phical position of those remote regions. Naturally his data are
also from a second-hand source; from the nature of the case they
date at the latest from the period when he wrote his work, i.e., at
the latest in 165 under Marcus Aurelius, but they are probably earlier;
elsewhere and in an entirely different connexion, we have ascertained
that Ptolemy made use of much older sources.”

After Ptolemy has, in his seventh book, chap. 2 § 17, spoken
of the (Further-Indian) Silver-Land, Argyré Chora, and Goldland,
Chrysé Chora, he speaks in § 25 of the cities of the Golden Peninsula,
Chrysé Chersonésos by which—in a general way—only the Malay
Peninsula can be meant. Then follows a statement of islands
suggesting, in the first place, the Andaman and Nicobar islands.
Judging by the names, we are in § 28 in the Archipelago, with the
“five Barousai, wherein, as men say, the dwellers are Cannibals”;
thereafter come the “‘three Sabadeibai-islands of the cannibals.”
Lastly, § 29 mentions “‘the island Iabadiou (or Sabadiou), which
signifies Barley-island; it is said that this is very fertile and produces
very much gold and that ithas a capital named Argyré (Silver-city)
at the Western extremity.”” Inthe eighth book, chap. 27, § 10,
the situation of Argyré, the capital on the island labadiou, is further
described (West-point 167° Eastern longitude, 8°30’ Southern latitude;
East-point 169° by 8°10’) and, among other things, it‘is stated that the
Sun stands there twice a year at its Zenith. One cannot proceed
to check the measurement of the numbers given by Ptolemy, and
the communication is not certainly nullified by the palpable mistakes,
because in the first place the ciphers of observation by others might
have reached his hands in a faulty form and secondly numerous
copyists had opportunities to make and increase the mistakes of the
manuscripts.

What strikes us first is the earliest mention of the name Java,
which naturally stands for that Iabadiou, the Barley-island. The
explanation of the name is right: in Sanskrit, yava indeed signifies

1 Georgr. Grace. Min. ed, Milller, I (1861) p. 102. Only afterwards
Coglon is reached.

2 Seo hereabove. These and other points are treated by Kern, VG. V,
pp. 303-314 (article from 1869).

3 De populis germanis (1908) pp. 27-35.

Google
64 INDO-JAVANESE HISTORY

barley, while diou is Prakrt diwu which corresponds to the Sanskrit
dvipa; the island in view is therefore known in the last-mentioned
language as Yavadvipa.

Now, which island is signified by this name? If one knows
nothing of the questions connected with it, he is inclined, relying on
the name alone, to answer Java. But when he remembers the fact
that, to the Indians coming into the Archipelago, Sumatra was the
firet big country and that it must have been reached and colonised
early, it is not less obvious for him to think of Sumatra which was
certainly earlier and better known than Java. This is more
emphasised where a confusion and interchange between the names
of the both the islands appear in later sources, where Sumatra
ora part of called Java. To a third possibility, that the Malay
Peninsula is the ancient Yava, Moens has drawn attention."

In proving that to Ptolemy also Iabadiou is Sumatra and not Java
stress has been laid particularly on the fact that little or no gold i:
found there, in contradistinction to Sumatra, which, as we shall see
later on, was styled Suvarnadvipa, the Gold-island, and where gold

obtained even now.” This argument need not weigh as heavily
as it appears at first sight: in an eighth-century inscription found in
Java itself, this land is called Yavadvipa and is praised for its
wealth of gold. We can surely try to show that this is not correct
and that gold was not really found there,’ but the fact remains that
Java, right or wrongly, passed for a land with much gold and then
there would be nothing against the supposition that the same reputa-
tion had reached Ptolemy or his informant.

The communication of the meaning of labadiou as Barley-island
does not bring us further, because, though it is correct that yava
denotes barley, thie crop is indigenous neither in Java nor in
Sumatra! This difficulty has been avoided by pointing out that yava
is also used for millet (panicum italicum), which is indeed found
there‘, and that it occyrs in dictionaries even in the sense of grains
in general, particularly of flour-producing grains; under that definition
falls rice and so this Grain-island should properly be conceived as the

1 Tijdschr, Bat. Gen. 77 (1987) pp. 348-414.

2 This is especially an argument of Ferrand, J. As, 11:19 (1922) pp. 175f.

3 Such is the opinion of Verbeek and Fennema, Geologische beschrijving
van Java en Madoera II (1896) pp. ¥96ff. On the other hand, Hévig argues
in De Ingenieur, 1928, M. pp. 79-85, that Java most positively was and is a
gold-land.

4 Hereover see Kern, VG. V, pp. 315-821, with the older literature (before
1871).

Google

INDO-JAVANESE HISTORY 65

The question, why the name-givers, if they particularly
meant rice, did not use the usual word for rice, remains naturally un-
answered, and it is most admissible that the Millet-island is really
intended”. For the solution of the problem, Java or Sumatra, this
name-explanation is of ho importance. .

If we consult the later sources, we find that
inscription mentioned just now, Yavadvipa enerally held* to be
Java, and that, so far as we can see, the confusion does not belong to
which is never used for Sumatra, but only to Java,
which is applied to both the islands, and can possibly be a sort of
general designation for the Indonesians.* Leaving aside the doubtful
it is our further experience that, just from the end of the tenth
century, Java and Yava were indifferently used for the island Java,
but, before that time, positively from the ninth century, the places
in Java, which permit of an identification, appear to refer to Sumatra,
or at least a part of it, with its centre on the East coast. It is
not impossible that both islands were at first called by a common
name,’ but as soon as the difference was known, it may be supposed
that men did not continue to call the two islands indifferently,
but that they were, distinguished each with a proper name, Yava
for Java and Java for that part of Sumatra. Till anything appears
to the contrary, we venture to accept this working-hypothesis and
shall notice its consequences in due course.

For the present, we rest satisfied with stating that Ptolemy’s
labadiou, on the above-metioned hypothesis, 'should indeed be
Java and not Sumatra; we shall now look further into the names
preserved by that author. The five Barousai-islands remind one
of the name of Baros, and it is of importance that the name Baros
appears to be actually known to the Indians and that it not cover
only a small tract, at least in later years; the Mafjusrimulakalpa
(II, 332) mentions, under the lands whose language is indistinct and
rough, Varugaka beside Yava and Bali (together with the Cocoa-
lands and Nicobars); here has evidently been intended, in a

in the eighth-century

1 Rouffacr in Enc. V. Ned.-Indié, Ist ed., IV (1905) p. 964, with Bijdr.
Kon. Inst, 74 (1918) p. 138.

2 Van Middelkrop and van Boeckholtz in Blagden, Catalogue of the
Mackenzie Collections (1916) p. 100, 104, 129; Lekkerkerker, Kol. Tijdschr.
16 (1927) pp. 605-613 and 621-621.

3 For arguments to the contrary, See Moons 1.1., especially p. 98 f.

4 Soe Coodds in Bijdr. Kon. Inst. 83 (1927) p. 463, where he refers to
the use of the modern-Kambdjan Ja

5 Of. Prayluski in Journ. Gr. Ind. Soc. I (1984) pp. 92-96,

9

Google
6 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

general way, the language of Hinduized Sumatra. That Ptolemy
speaks of islands is no objection; elsewhere it also appears from
statements on remote regions—known only from the reports of sea-
farers—that what were first held to be separate islands appeared
later on to be a contiguous coast-line ; we are thus at liberty to think
of the Sumatran West-coast or of the islands lying before it, the
first seen by those who came from the West and possibly also
designated by a name which later on passed over to the land lying
behind them. After Barousai, come the three Sabadeibai-islands ;
if we consider that in deibai is again represented the usual dvipa in
rt-form, we can then maintain Saba as the proper
place-name. Given the change—found everywhere—in the manner
of writing b and w, and the absence of j (also reproduced in other
words with a sibilant) in Greek, the Saba in the mouths of the
Greeks can very well be what was known on the spot as Jawa,
and what, as appears from the above, we find localised in Sumatra’s
East-coast in later times. The three Sabadeibai possibly make us
think of Banka, Biliton and the Sumatran coast;* but, leaving this
aside, and after fully admitting the uncertainty which prevails every-
where, we. deem it most probable that in Barousai, Sabadeibai and
labadiou as they have been named by Ptolemy we have successively
to see Sumatra’s West-coast, Sumatra’s South-East coast and Java.

It ie then in Java, at the Western extremity, that the capital
Argyr8 stood, and in the following chapter we shall notice the
oldest traces of Hindu-colonisation in West Java. Argyré is the
Silver-city, aname which—as silver appears in a very poor measure
in Java (and Sumatra)*—we can hardly accept with certainty.
The attempt to offer a solution to this problem has not succeeded
so far; one can imagine two kinds of misunderstanding: an Indian
word which was wrongly translated as “silver,” or one which
represented, so far as the sound is concerned, conformity with
“argyré.” The oldest name known to us of the West-
Hindu-kingdom agrees with none of the two suppositions. As
regards the situation, it may be mentioned that Kern thought of
Perak*—(according to this scholar Ptolemy held Java and Sumatra
for one island),—while Poerbatjaraka thinks of Di8ng.‘

1 We note further that Ptol.. VII, 4, § 13, among tho islands to the East
of Ceylon, calls one Zaba, in which this Jawa may also be concealed, although
the further context makes that less probable,

2 See De Haan, Priangan III (1912) pp. 876-888.

3 VG XV (1928) p. 182.

4 Tijdschr. Bat. Gen. 69 (1929) p, 169.

Google
INDO-JAVANESE HISTORY &

After Java, two island-groups are yet mentioned by Ptolemy,
the three islands of Satyroi, whose inhabitants posses

ironwork are kept unmoveable (§ 31); the well-known story from
earlier and later literature of the East and West about magnetic
mountains is thus localised here in the Far East. It has not yet been
possible to offer an identification of these island-groups which
would be generally accepted ;' the mentioning of more islands makes
it fess probable that Borneo should be intended, although this belongs,
as will appear from the following chapter, to the earliest of the
lands visited by the Hindus. Should we turn to the East of Java,
then the magnetic hill may perhaps be localised: it is well-known
that in the neighbourhood of Tambora in Sumbava the compasses
deflect.

From the account of Ptolemy it may appear that the Indians
knew Java which they had designated by an Indian name; but it
does not follow that the land was already Hinduized. We need
not be influenced by the many “cannibals” who lived in the
surrounding islands;? such an expression for a people who were
differently disposed and were deemed less cultured has as little
value as that of the “barbarians” in old-Greek or “wilds” in many
modern works; and the taking of nourishment, worse than corpses,
is still put forward in a Cam inscription from the eighth century
to characterize the despicable crew of a hostile fleet. If one
compares the vague accounts of the Periplus about traffic in the
Far East with the much clearer description of Ptolemy, who is
aware of a definite capital in Java and determines the places he
mentions from. an astronomical stand-point, one cannot escape
the impression that such accounts must rest on something more’ than
a mere hearsay of the Indian informants, and that the Hindus
themselves came to the places described, although it may be that
they perhaps came seldom and that the people dwelling there
had not yet undergone the influence of the Western Sea-farers.

So we may place this state of affairs in the first half of the second
century. It is not precluded however that the colonisation had at
that time already proceeded a good part of the way, if we may follow

1 See e.g. Gerini pp. 420-424 and 446-449, Ho also places tho Sindai-
islands, which have been mentioned before Barousai, in the Archipelago
(Southern Montawei-islands).

2 In the Carta marina of Waldseemiiller from 1516, one finds hic antro-
pophagorum genus, noted in respect of the island “Gaiva seu Java.”

Google
68 HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

Ferrand’s interpretation’ of a Chinese account from 132 A.D. In that
year, says the relevant chapter of the Heu-han-shu,? the king of Ye-
tiao beyond the borders of Je-nan, named Pien, sent an embassy for
presenting tribute and the Emperor conferred a golden seal and violet
ribbon on Tiao-pien. That Ye-tiao should correspond to Yavadvipa
was already the opinion of Pelliot, and this name alone gives the
important indication that the land was known to the Chinese under the
Indian name, and if only we knew for certain that the envoy himeelf
mentioned that name in 132 A D. and that it was not inserted during
the composition of the Heu-han-shu in the course of the third century,”
then we might admit that this land, styled Yavadvipa, was more
or less Hinduized. A conclusive proof we would have when we could
follow Ferrand who transcribes Tiao-pien as Devavarman;* we deem
ourselves utterly incompetent to judge the correctness of the transcrip-
tion. Provisionally we consider it to be certain that, in the firet half
of the second century, the Hindus had visited Java and possibly the
colonisation had already led to tangible results. As the first king
known to us from Java, the name Devavarman should be quite accept-
able in connexion with the later royal names ending in varman. The
same Ye-tiao is mentioned in the third century as the parent-land of
a certain plant, in which one can recognise the maja.

If the above account dating from 132 A.D. really refers to Java, this
land is then the first of the Hindu colonies whose relations with the Cel-
estial kingdom have been committed to paper, because the kingdoms
of the Khmers and the Cams lying much nearer first follow suit from
225 and 230 A.D. respectively." Of Sumatra, similar embassies are
noted much later; still it is possible that in the older Chinese accounts
they are at least mentioned. As such, two passages may be cited
to begin with, fragments of the Fu-nan-t’u-su-chw’en of K’ang-tai
from about 245-250 A.D., where mention has been made of a land
Tu-po which, as appears from the later texts, lay to the East of Cam-
bodge in the Chinese sea; now, since tu is frequently confused with
ché and Tu-po agrees with nothing else, this may be read as Ché-po
and equated with Javaka, which may then stand for Java or Sumatra ;”

1 J. As. 11:8 (1916) p, 530. 2 Deus itinéraires, 266-269,

3 The work was only compiled in the fifth century according to Chang,
Sino-Portuguese trade (1938) p. 2.

4 In that case, a portion of the full name is left out from the first Pien.

5 Ferrand and Laufer in J. As. 11:8 (1916) pp. 521-582.

6 Pelliot, Le Fou-nan, BEFEO, 3 (1903) p. 283 and 251.

7 Pelliot, Deux iti: ires, p. 269f.; Ferrand, J. As. 11 ;20 (1922) p. 173
and 2008.

Google
INDO-JAVANESE HISTORY 69

by the above reasoning, one can give preference to Sumatra. The
second passage occurs in the Buddhistic Shih-’rh-yiu-king which was
translated in 392; under the kingdoms in the sea has been mentioned
one Ché-ye, which is considered by Lévi to be a variant for the name
of Java.’ But, according to Ferrand, that Ché-ye, glossed elsewhere
by “victory”, Skr. jaya, should correspond to Vijaya.” In that case,
it should be the olde: ¢ where mention has been made of the
kingdom ijaya wl we shall later on meet with in all its glory
in Sumat In the Buddhist work under notice, we find it related
that it produced long pepper. As one sees, there remains in both
cases a great measure of uncertainty, and they are more noteworthy
a prospective earliest’ mention than as positive historical
indications.

In the oldest Indian data we find, as was to be expected, the full
name Yavadvipa for Java. Itis the passage from the Ramayana,’
where the apes are ordered to trace the abducted Sita and search the
various lands of the East; they are also (IV, 40, 30) asked to search
“carefully Yavadvipa, of which seven kingdoms constitute the orna-
ment, the gold and silver-island, rich in gold-mines; beyond Yava-
dvipa is the mountain called Sigira, which touches heaven with its
peak and which to by gods and demons.”

The mountain gives usno further foot-hold, unless one
thinks of the snow-ranges of New-Guinea ;‘ the mentioning of silver
should raise the surmise that Ptolemy's Argyré has good grounds to
stand upon; of the gold it may be asserted, according to our above-
mentioned statement as against Ferrand’s’ observations, that the
greater yield of gold in Sumatra may be no proof against Java, since
an inscription of Java itself particularly refers to the gold-mines found
there, even as the Ramayana does. On the other hand the seven
kingdoms should rather remind us of Sumatra, where we shall
really find, as will appear from a later chapter, more kingdoms;
nevertheless, of the oldest condition of Sumatra we know just as little
as of that in Java, and there is no guarantee that the seven king-
doms rest on anything other than the phantasy of the poet who
perhaps only knew the name of Yavadvipa as an island in the Far
East. Could he know more? The answer is connected with the
question of the antiquity of the Ramayana, which is not yet well
ascertained. Of the latest investigators who have occupied them-

1 J. As., 11:11 (1918) p. 83.

2 J. As., 11:14 (1919) p, 162M. ; 1:20 (1922) p. 210,

3 Bombay-edition, 1895. 4 Kern VG XV (1928) p, 182.
5 J. As., 11:20 (1922) pp, 202-206.

Google
p HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

selves with this task, Hopkins suggests the origin of the Maha-
bharata in the centuries immediately preceding the beginning of
the Christian era, while the Ramayana is somewhat later; Lévi
also regarded the various Ramédyana-recensions to have originated
from an edition from the beginning of the Chri.tian era.? Meanwhile,
new passages appear to be interpolated later on and, as the piece in
question appears to belong to it,” the case is indeed very- uncertain ;
Kern thought that there were reasons for assigning these verses, at a
rough estimation, to the middle of the second century; this would
mak ccount contemporaneous with that of Ptolemy. Considering
the difference in language, style and verse-structure in comparison
with the works to be discussed preeently the verses can in no case
be considerably later.‘ When we leave aside Sigira and the seven
kingdoms for the sake of certainty, the conclusion therefore is thi
that in the second century the island Yavadvipa, whose fame had also
reached Ptolemy through the medium of an Indian source, was so far
known in India itself (as was to be expected) that people were
cognisant of its wealth of gold, but they had otherwise only a
vague notion of the same.*

This vagueness, compared with the somewhat more positive state-
ment of Ptolemy, should make us take the Ramdyana-passage to be
older, were it not for the fact that of course something else is to be
expected of a heroic poem than a geography. One can further
raise the question, if by ‘‘gold and silver-island’”” only an apposition
of Yavadvipa is meant, and not rather a second island, Suvarna-
rapyakadvipa, a supposition which has not so far appeared to be
wholly a phantasy without any foundation, because, in later time,
Suvarnadvipa is an usual expression for Sumatra; in this
the Ramayana would therefore designate both the great islands side
by side, and the gold-mines would turn out to belong to Sumatra

1 In Rapson, The Cambridge history of India, 1 (1922) pp. 268ff.

2 J. As,, 11:11 (1918) p. 150,

3 Jacobi, Das Ramayana (1893) pp. 87f.; cf. Winternitz, Geschichte der
Indischen Litteratur I (1909) p. 426.

4 VG. V, pp. 307

5 Kern V@ XV, pp. 182 ff. remarks that, as appears from the name
Samudrdnta for nutmeg, the Indians might have also been acquainted with
‘the Moluccas; but perhaps this was only tho caso at a later period. For
the anciont cinnamon-trade seo Gonda in Tijdschr. Aardr. Gen. 49 (1932)
pp. 414-424,

6 According to Rangacharya in Aiyangar Comm. Vol. (1996) pp. 462-482
Suvarnadvipa means the Malay Peninsula.

Google
INDO-JAVANESE HISTORY nm

It is not so much the unusual designation with the intercalated rapyaka
that stands against this conception as the circumstance that the
author continues with the statement that beyond Yavadvipa lies the
Sigira-mountain. In his conception therefore one and the same
island was always manifestly meant. This of course does not
preclude that the nomenclature of the Gold-island already existed
separately and for that reason occurred throughout the account of
the Far East, which had reached the Ramdyana-writer; but, in
connexion with uncertain dating of this passage, we cannot make
much use of this possibility." ;

Why we must be extremely cautious about statements like these
can best be demonstrated from one of the astronomical sources,”
with which we shall conclude here, although chronologically they
belong to a much later period. Inthe Aryabhatiya,’ whose author
was born in 476 A.D., it has been stated (IV, 13) that when the
Sun rises in Ceylon, it is Sun-set in the town of the Blessed (180°
western longitude from Ceylon), midday in Yavakoti, i.e.. the
Point of Java, and mid-night in the land of the Roma: That the
computation tallies in no case (the m« jans in question must,
from the nature of the case, lie 90° from each other, which is not
the ci and certainly not the case with the most Eastern one)
renders it impossible to make out where this Yavakoti is to be
sought ; Kern hesitated between Kutei and the East-point of Java,‘
but, in case Java is intended, one can also suppose that the point
of observation may be the same as that of Ptolemy, whose Argyré
lay just in the western extremity of the island. That an astronomi-
cal datum about one of the islands of the Archipelago was known
to the Indians at the time of Aryabhata surprises us not at all,
because Hinduism had already established there a firm footing ;
what is rather surprising is that such serious mistakes were possible
in spite of that fact. Now comes the Siryasiddhanta which, not
in oldest but in its present from, is later than the Aryabhatiya,
and this states (XII, 38) that in one-fourth of the circumference of
the earth, in the world of the Bhadraévas, lies the famous town
of Yavakoti, whose walls and gates were of gold. So in the full

1 Lévi has maintained a different opinion, viz., that in a Harivamsa-
passage, which quotes the relevant lines, the correct reading Suvarnakudyaka
has been preserved, a land which he places to ‘the South-East of India
in the direction of Java,” Seo Htudes Asiatiques, (1925) II, pp, 29-36.

2 Kern, VG. V, pp. 308 #.

3 Ed, 8. Sastri I (1930), tr. Clark (1930),

4 VG. XV, p, 184,

Google
Rp HIMANSU BHUSAN SARKAR

Hindu-period of Java, in an Indian astronomical work, a source where
facts should be expected, the Point of Java turns into a town with
golden gates and walls, most probably an echo and effect of the
Javanese wealth of gold, illustrated from the Ramayana a short
while ago. When one makes it quite clear that such a fabulous
story appears in a serious Indian work at a time when the Hindus,
according to the most conservative estimate, had come to the
Archipelago at least two and a half centuries earlier and when a
number of Hinduized states were founded, one is constrained to an
unusual reservedness for all earlier cases, where the particulars in
Indian sources about islands of the East are given under so much
less favourable conditions of trade and intercourse between India
and the Archipelago.

Hence in the matter of first contact of the Hindus with the
Archipelago, it does not appear reasonable to go further than in-
dicate some very general outlines. In the Western islands, Java and
Sumatra in particular, we may suppose an Indonesian people
about the commencement of the Christian era who had already
various kinds of vicissitudes behind them, had, in a manner still
faintly perceptible, come into contact with other races and other
lands, had lastly probably come from the coast of Further India,
had undertaken long sea-voyages to the West up to Madagascar,
and thereby had perhaps emulated the earlier example of their
tribal kinsmen who-were already established in the islands of the
Atchipelago. These people were not wholly uncultured and were
governed by fixed social customs in connexion with the rice-cultivation
on irrigated fields but, for that reason, one need not suppose
a particularly high culture for them; of the typical Javanese
accomplishments of later timeg, the batiks were most probably yet
unknown, and if wayang and gamiélan belonged to the cultural
asset of .the pre-Hindu population, they had a wholly different
appearence from what they are now. In the first century, there
was some trade from the South of .India with these islands; tie
acquaintance with the Hindus and their culture had therefore begun
at that time. In the second century, this had manifestly led to
a further influence of the foreigners, that isto say, to the beginning
of Hindu-color jon, the nature of which we shall try to determine
in the following chapter.

Google
Notes on Central Asia

I

The so-called “Secret History of the Mongols” (Mongyol-un
ni‘iica tobciyan) relating the wars waged by the Mongols against
the Tangut (Tangyud) kingdom during the reign of Cinggis-qan,
names the Tangut king Burqan and Iaqu Burgan. Professor
E, Haenisch in his article “Die Letzten Feldzuege Cinggis-Han’s
und sein Tod” (ASIA MAJOR, vol. IX, fasc, 3, 1983, p. 546 ff)
correctly observes that the name Burqan and Ilaqu Buran (Burhan
and Iluhu Burhan in the transcription adopted by Haenisch) in tho
text of the ‘Secret History of the Mongols” denotes a title, and not
@ personal name. That Burqan was a title, and not a personal
name is made clear from the fact that the Tangut kings mentioned
in connection with the campaign against the Tangut kingdom of
1209 and 1226/7, are all called Burqan and Ilaqu Burgan.? Thus
in’ 249 and' 250 of the ‘“‘Secret History of the Mongols,” which
relate the war of 1209 A.D. against the Tangut kingdom in
the reign of the Tangut king Li An-ch’iian (1206-1211), the Tangut
king is called Burqan and Ilaqu Burqan, Similarly in’ 256, p. 89,
which gives the text of the message sent by Cinggis-qan to the
Tongut king Li Tsun-heiang (Shén-tsung, 1211-1223) on the eve of
his departure for the war against the Khwarazm-shah in 1219
A.D., the Tangut king is also called Burgan.’ 265, p. 93, and?
267, p. 94, which relate the events of the last campaign against the
Tanguts in 1226/7 A.D., which took place in the reigns of king
Li Té-wang (1223-1226) and Li Hsien (proclaimed king in the
seventh moon of 1226, and put to death in the sixth moon of 1227),
again refer to the reigning Tangut king as Burqan and Iaqu
Burgan. We are told that after the defeat of the Tanguts, the
title of the Tangut king Ilaqu Burqan was changed to that of
Sidurya, the “Faithful” *(268, p, 94: Ilaqu Burgan-i siduryu
bolyaju). ‘The title of Siduryu? or ‘Faithful was evidently
given in order to stress the vassal state of the Tangut king, and

1 See Erich Haonisch: “Manghol un niuca tobe’an (Yiian-ch'so pi-
shI), Die Geheime hichte der Mongolen.” Leipzig, 1937, 249 and 250,
p.85. The new edition of the Mongyol-un ni‘dca tobciyan by Professor
8, A. Kozin, the first volume of which has now been published by the Oriental
Institute of the Academy of Sciences of the U.S.S.R., is unfortunately in-
accessible to mo, In the present article the “Secret History of the Mongols”
is quoted after the edition of Professor Haonisch.

2 48) y0s5, Sidirqd of the Muslim historians, See Rashid ad-Dio,
Tvoirao, vol. XV, p. 94 and p. 144 (Persian toxt).

10

Google i
4 G. N. ROERICH

perhaps in imitation of the usual Chinese custom of giving titles
to vassals and tribal chiefs of the Sino-Mongol boderland. The
full title of the Tangut king, as given by Cinggis-qan in
1227 A.D., and his personal name in Tibetan, given in the Hor-
chos-’byua of Rig-pa’i rdo-rje (ed. G, Huth, vol. I. p. 18, Tibetan
text; vol. II p. 27, translation), where it is briefly stated that
in the year Fire-Hog (me-phag, 1227 A. D.). Cinggis-qan ordered
the ninth king (sa-skyoi) of the Bod Mi-fiag,? named rDo-rje
dpal, or Zi-tur-gwo thul-gon ha-kan (<Siduryu tiligen/~ diiligen/-
qayan) in Mongol, to be put to death. Haenisch (ibid, p. 646)
suggests that the Mongol Ilaqu Burgan tranelates a Tibetan S
rgyas rgyal-ba. Such a title is not found among Tibetan lic
and clerical titles. It is true that the word burqan, itself a loan-
word in Mongol, usually translates the Tibetan Sane-rgyas, or
Buddha, but in some cases the word is used to translate the
Tibetan Iha, “god, divinity.”* Thus in the well-known Tibetan-
Mongol Dictionary-brDa’-yig min-don gsal-bar byed-pa’i Zla-ba’i
Yod-anaix, composed by the A-la-éa* Lha-rams-pa Nag-dban bstan-
dar (b. in 1758 A.D.), in 1838, the expression lha-chos-pa, ‘‘priest,’”
is translated burquan-d nomtu (fol. 13la of the Sung-chu-ssd
edition). The name of the Tibetan capital Lha-sa is rendered
Burgan tegiisiigsen oron, where burqan stands for lha.* Such
3 According to the late B, Laufer (‘The Si-hia Language,” T’oung Pao,
1916, pp. 1-126) the language of tho Hsi-Heia Tanguts belonged to tho group
of the Lo-lo and Mo-s0 languages of the Sino-Tibetan borderland. Certain
elements indicate an affinity to the Tibetan dialects of the North-East.
the Tibetan historical literature the Tangut kingdom is said to b
founded by the Mi-fisg tribe. Tibetan authors distinguish Eastern Mi-fiag
or Sar Mi-fiag, South Mi-fieg or Lho Mi-fiag in the valley of the Rag-chu
(Ya-lung chieng), and North Mi-fiag or Byait , who originally wore
settled in the neighbourhood of Tsoi-ka near eKu-’bum in North Amdo, and
founded in the X-th century the Hsi-hsia kifgdom in the present provinoes of
Ning-heia and Kan-su. Sometimes the name Mi-fiag is spolt Mi-fiag-gha (Mi-fiag-
gha’i yul, see Deb-ther siion-po, Book II, fol. la), which represents an attempt
to reproduce the fricative pronunciation of the final velar, peculiar to the Mi-
fiag dialect. (rGyal-rabs Bon-gyi ’byui-gnas, edited by Sarat Chandra Das,
Calcutta, 1916, p. 90). Groups of Mi-fiag are still found among tho Tangut
nomads of the Nan-shan, north of the Kéké-niir and among the Uighurs of
Kan-su (seo Potanin: ‘‘Tangutsko-tibetskaya okraina Kitaya,” vol. 1, p. 444;
©.G.E. Mannerheim: “A visit to the Sard and Shera Yogure,”” Holsingfors,
1911, p.83 (offprint from tho Journal of the Société Finno-Ougrienne,XXVII, 2).
4 The usual Mongol translation of the Tibetan Lha is tngri~ tengei.
6 i.e. Alashan in South Mongol
6 Kovalevsky: “Dictionnaire
p, 1220,

[ongol-Russe-Fran¢:

Kazan, 1846, I,

Google
NOTES ON CENTRAL ASIA 6

examples could be multiplied. The Mi-fiag Tanguts had close
cultural and religious links with Tibet proper, and notwithstanding
the strong influence of neighbouring China, their state organiza-
tion preserved numerous parallels with that of Tibet. We know
that the Tibetan kings throughout the Imperial Period of the
VII-1X A.D., and in the later Middle Ages bore the titles of Lha,
Lha-geig (~ Lha-cig), Lha-chen (Lha-chen-po, Mahadeva), Lha-
btsan-po,” and Lha-rgyal, meaning ‘“Divinus, the Great Divine
One, the Divine King or the Victorious Divine One.” In the
Chinese ‘Annals of the T'ang dynasty it is stated that the Tibetan
king bore the title of Fo, or the “Divine One.”* We are thus
led to conjecture that Burqan of the ‘Secret History of the
Mongols’”’ must have stood for the Tibetan Lha or ‘‘Divinus’’, and
Tlaqu Burqan for the Tibetan Lha-rgyal. That it was 60, is shown
by the fact that Jizjani in his Tabagat-i Nasiri (translated by
Major Raverty, fasc. XI & XII, p. 1085) stated that the Tangut
king was titled ye _, 6 Tengri-kl

Il

The late Professor Paul Pelliot in his review of the Complete
Edition of the Works of the great Chinese scholar Wang Kuo-wei,
who died in 1927 (‘“L’Edition Collective des Oeuvres de Wang Kouo-
wei”, T’oung Pao, 1928, pp. 113-182), has drawn attention (ibid,
p. 136) to certain Chinese texts which narrate the fate of the last
Sung Emperor Chao Hsien captured by the Mongols in 1276 A.D..
‘The Yiianshih is silent on the fate of the last Sung Emperor whom
the Mongol commander Bayan sent to the Court of Qubilai where
be remained till 1288 A.D, According to two texts quoted by
Professor Pelliot, the Fo teu litai t‘ung tsai and the Nung-t‘ien
yii-hua, the infant emperor after his abdication was given the
honorific title of Ying-kuo-kung and ordered to become o Buddhist
monk, He took the monastic vows ina monastery of Ho-hsi (lit.
“West of the River”, i, e. the Huang-ho) or Kan-su, and received

7 Text of the 822 A.D. Treaty concluded betwoon Emperor Mu-taung
and king Kbri-gteug Ide-btean Rel-pa-can. Seo L.A. Waddell: ‘Ancient
Historical Edicts at Lha-sa,” JRAS, 1910, p. 418. The title of Lhe and
Lha-geig was also given to queens and royal princesses, ex. Lha-geig koi-jo
(ckung-chu), Imperial Princess, See Mani bKe’-'bum, fol. 208; J. Bacot:
“Le mariage de Srofi-bean sgan-po.” p. 15 and 44 of offprint (Mélanges
chinois et boudhique, vol. III, 1986). The title Lha-btsun was commonly
and is still given to Buddhist monks of noble descent (Mongol : toyin).

8 H, Bichurin: “Istoriya Tibeta i Khukhunora.”” St, Petersburg, 1883,
vol. I, p. 180.

Google
7 G. N. ROERICH

the religious name of Ho-tsun or Ha-tsun (the mKha’-btsun suggest
ed by Pelliot must bea misprint, for the proper form is mKhas-
bteun), Inthe fourth moon of 1323 A.D., the Mongol Emperor
(Gegen-qayan) ordered him to commit suicide. The above quoted
Chinese sources are not the only texte mentioning the tragic fate of
the last Emperor of the Sung dynasty, In the well-known Tibetan
chronicle the “Blue Annals” (Deb-ther sion-po), composed by ’Gos

lo-tsi-ba gZon-nu dpal in 1476-8 A.D., we find the following
Passage :

‘Deb-ther sion-po, Book I/Ka/, fol. 26b) :

‘e-chen rgyal-po rgyal-sar biuge-nas Ci-dben lo beu-gsum-pa’i
dus-su/ sMan-rtse’i rgyal-po gYe'u-ju rgyal-sar bsdad nas lo gsum
soi-ba-la/ Ba-yan chii-sai-gi gsui-gis rgyal-khams blais/rgyal-po
Sa-skyar btaa-nas Iha-btsun byas/rtia-du Ge-gan rgyal-po’i deu-su
bead-pas khrag ‘o-mar byui:io/ |"

“In the thirteenth year of the period Ci-dben (Chih-yiian,
adopted in 1264 A.D., the thirteenth year of the period is the year
1276 A.D.—the year of the capture of Hang-chou, capital of .the
Sung) in the reign of the Emperor Se-chen (Secen-qan, Qubilai),
and in the third year of the reign of the Emperor gYe’u-ju (the
Tibetan text confounds Chao Hsien with Chao Yi-ju, Emperor
Tu-teung’s father, whose widow acted as regent in the fateful years
of 1275-6 A.D.) of sMan-rtse:(Man-tzu, South China) the empire
was conquered by command of Ba-yan chii-sai (Bayan dingsang,
1287-95). The Emperor was sent to Sa-skya, where he became a
priest. Later, in the reign of the Emperor Ge-gan (Gegen-qayan),
he was put to death, and his ‘blood turned into milk’ (an expression
meaning that he was killed being innocent),’’ ’Gos lo-tsi-ba’s chief
source for the history of the Mongol dynasty was the Deb-ther
dmar-po of Kun-dga’ rdo-rje, who based his account on the work of
Dzam-bha-la (Jambhala) Ti-éri (Ti-shih, Imperial Preceptor) mGon,
a contemporary of Bu-ston Rin-po-che (1290-1864). There is
nothing improbable in the statement that the last Sung Emperor
was sent to the monastery of Sa-skya in Tibet, in view of the close
and friendly relations which existed between the Mongol Imperial
Court ard the Sa-skya hierarchs. The prevalent unsettled
conditions throughout the Empire during the last reigns of the
Mongol dynasty evidently forced the Mongol Court to remove a
possible pretender to the Imperial Throne of China.

G. N. Roericu

9 The work of Dzam-bha-la Ti-éri mGon is not extant,

Google i
REVIEW

EXCAVATIONS IN THE FT. LIBERTE. REGION, HAITI by
Froclich G. Rainy: CULTURE OF THE FT. LIBERTE REGION,
HAITI by Irving Rouse: Yale University Publications in Anthropo-
logy. Nos. 23 and 24.

The two reports under review are the results of archaeological
excavations and research carried out in the aboriginal dwelling sites
on the north coast of Haiti in the island of Hispaniola of the West
Indies. The sites are divided into two types: the Flint sites and
the Pottery sites. The first yielded stone implements and the second
potsherds, in addition to stone and shell implements. The flint sites
are five in number and from them were chiefly obtained flint tools,
ground stone tools and marine shells but no pottery. The pottery
ites are six in number and are distinguished by pottery and bone
refuse, by distinctive types of shell, bone and stone artifacts and by
mound structures. Maps of the sites and many cross-sections of the
trenches have been given in the report on excavations but un-
fortunately no photograps. The note on the geographic setting and
the historical background of north Haiti is very useful.

The second half of the report contains a more or less exhaustive
description and classification of the culture of the Ft. Liberté region
from the useful data obtained by excavations as given in the first
half of the report. The author has classified the Ft. Liberté sites
into three principal groups, as the Couri (Flint sites), the Meillac and
the Carrier (Pottery & shell sites) which correspond to the Ft. Liberté
time-scale (not discussed in this report) as Periods 1, Ill, and IV.
The Couri group of sites belong to Period I. Period II does not
account for any culture. The Meillac and the Carrier belong to
Periods Ill and IV respectively. A respectable series of artifacts of
the Couri group of sites have been described. The typology includes
daggers, knives and scrapers of flint, eleven types of ground stone
artifacts including axes and two types made of shell—a chisel and
a pendant. The Meillac group of sites is characterised by clay-
baked artifacts—the cooking pottery and clay griddle. Some of the
pottery is plain while others are decorated with various designs.
The flint and other stone artifacts are similar to those of the Couri
culture except for the absence of scrapers. The use of corale and
of bone artifacts is an innovation of the Meillac culture. The culture
of the Carrier group of sites consists of a variety of artifacts, such
as baked clay pottery, daggers, knives and celts etc, artifacts of
shell and bone and miscellaneous items. The cooking pottery is the
most elaborate of the types.

Google
2B REVIEW

The author is of the opinion that the Carrier culture has persisted
until historic times and that the people must have spoken an Arawak
language for that was the historic language of the natives of Haiti.
Also according to him, the people having the Meillac culture were
probably the ancestors of the Carrier people and that they spoke the
¢ language. We cannot remark upon the above problem in this
review as the author has discussed the subject elsewhere.

The report is illustrated with maps and diagrams and many
plates containing the photographs of the various artifacts. The
author has given us valuable results of a painstaking study of
Haitian aboriginal archaeology. D. Sex

PREHISTORY IN HAITI: ASTUDY IN METHOD by Irving
Rouse. Yale University Publications in Anthropology, Number 21.
Yale University Press, 1939. PP. 202+ 5 plates.

The prehistoric sites in Haiti have yielded a fairly large number
of stone and earthenware objects. But most of them have come
from shallow levels; so that no stratigraphic analysis has been
found-possible. The author has therefore tried a different method
altogether in arranging the sites in chronological order. He has
analysed the objects with regard to their physical characters, e.g.
manufacturing technique employed, their form, ornamentation etc.
having set’ up a logical scheme of classification, he has
lly analysed the frequency with which separate elementary
characters occur in different si Then he finds himself in a position
to arrange the sites in a chronological series.

Naturally much depends in such a method on how a worker picks
out the significant elements in the analysed objects. And in this
matter, we believe, the author has exercised sufficient caution and
discretion. He has also rightly pointed out that the findings of such
a method should not be taken alone, but used to supplement the
findings of more orthodox archaeological procedures.

In India, very little work of a scientific character has been done
with regard to either the Palaeolithic or the Neolithic period. But a
large amount of material, collected haphazard from shallow sites or
even from indefinitely recorded localities, remains amassed in
different museums of our country. If the Distribution Method or the
Ethnological Method are applied, this enormous amount of material
may yield some amount of archaeological light tous. We hope,
therefore, that the present publication which contains the patient
application of one of the above methods, will be welcomed by
students of Indian Prehistory.

Niamay Kumar Bose

Google
Editorial Notes

The Greater India Society completes twenty years of its activities
ain 1947 which happily synchronizes with the attainment of National
Freedom and we greet, on that occasion, our members, friends and
wellwishers who helped us in making the Greater India Movement
a National cause. Exactly twentyfive years ago, in August 1922
our first Bulletin ‘Greater India"’—a Study in Indian Internationalism
—was delivered as an address before the Peace Congress of
Lugano (Switzerland). Since then our learned colleagues like Dr.
R. C. Majumdar, Prof. O. C. Gangoly, Prof. S. K. Chatterjee, Dr.
P. C. Bagchi, Dr. N. P. Chakravarti, Dr. B. R. Chatterjee, Prof.
N. R. Ray, Dr. N. Dutt, Dr. J. N. Banerjee and others have made
valuable contributions to the study of India’s cultural relations with
the outside world extending from the Mediterranian. to the Pacific
Ocean.

Our learned Vice-President Dr. U. N. Ghoshal has placed all
under obligation by publishing his admirable report on the
1s of Greater Indian Research, 1917-1942. Our Society is
specially grateful to Dr. Ghoshal for his disinterested services to
our common cause and for presenting to the public twelve volumes
of our Journal, while carrying on the work of the Society as its
Hony. Secretary.

While releasing, late in the year, this double number (Vol. XIII,
Nos. 1-2 1946) we offer our apologies to the sympathetic public who
will appreciate, we hope, our difficulties in collecting papers and
arranging to get them printed amidst the most desparate conditions
prevailing in post-war Calcutta.

We hope to offer better services with the dawning of better days
and to keep in closer and quicker touch with our members and
friends. We request them to note carefully the change of our
Society's address.

P-26. Raja Basanta Roy Road, Calcutta 29, India, where all enquiries,
letters etc., should be sent for prompt attendance.

Google 4
The following publications reaching the Head Quarters of the

Society are acknowledged with thanks:—

1.

bd

ee

el

10.

ll.

12,

13.
14,

16,

16,

lw.

18,

19.

20.

22.

Comptes Rendus—L ’Academie des Sciences de L’ USSR.
1946—Vol. Li, 1 to 7; Vol. LI, 9: Vol. LIII, 1 to 9;
Vol. LIV, 1 to 6.
Kolonieal Institut, Amsterdam. 1941,1943, 1944 (1942 missing)
Bijdragon Tot de Taal,—Land-on Volkenkunde van Neder-
landsch—Indie, Deel 103, Hague—1946.
Quarterly Journal of Current Acquisitions, Library of Con-
gress, Washington, August 1946,
Bharatiya Vidya Patrika, Bombay. Aewin, Kartik—2003.
Sodh Patrika, Udaypur. March, 1947.
Nagari Pracdrini Patriké, Kashi. Sravan, Magh—2003.
Paribhagavrtti Jianaprakdsasamuccaya Karakacakra, Varendra
Research Museum, Rajehahi, Bengal,
Further Sources of Vijayanagara History, Madras University.
Vole. 1 to 3.
Journal of Indian History, University of Travancore.
April—1947. .
Report of the Scientific Advisory Board for the year 1946,
Indian Research Fund Association, New Delhi.
Journal of Venkatesvara Oriental Institute, Tirupati.
Vol. 1, No. 2, July—December 1946.
Indo-Iranica, Iran Society. Vol. 1, No. 8, January 1947.
Tournal of the United Provinces Historical Society,
Vol. XVIII, parts 1 & 2, July—December 1945.
Journal of the Annamalai University.
Vol, XII, Nos, 2 & 3, April 1943,
Journal of the Ganganatha Jha Research Institute.
Vol IV, part—1, Nov. 1946 : Part—2, Feb. 1947.
Exhibition of Asiatic Art & Archaeology, Archaeological
Survey of India, March—April, 1947.
Bulletin of the Baroda State Museum & Picture Gallery.
Vol. III, Part 1.
Ancient India, Archaeological Survey of India.
No, 2, July, 1946,
Journal of the Maha Bodhi Society.
Vol. 65, Nos. 5-6, May-June 1947
The Stupa in Ceylon, Archaelogical Survey of Ceylon.
Vol, V, 1947.
France—Asie, Mensuelle de Culture Franco-Asiatique,
16, Juillet 1947,

Google He
Original from

Digitized by Google UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
THE
GRAI

DATE DUE

JUL 2 8 1982

Google

Original from

Digitized by Google UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
rot MICHIGAN

9, univ

