<<<<<<< HEAD
=======
The She eul yeu. king does not therefore seem to have
been a Chinese compilation as it is not mentioned as such
by lthe ancient Chinese authorities. The fact that three
different translations were made of the same text shows that
there was an Indian original of the text. This original text
however was not a finished work, but an incomplete com-
pilation of the history of the Sakya race which included also
a description of the Jambudvipa over which the Gautama
Buddha exercised his spiritual authority. In regard! to the
latter part of the work the original was either incomplete
or mutilated, A glance at the text shows that it is composed
of different elements. Some of which may be traced to

different parts of the Vinaya and Agama works, The elements’

of its composition are the. following:

I. The life of ‘the Bodhisativa in the a-seng-k’i
{asarhkheya) kalpa. |

Il.. The life of the Bodhisattva in the Bhadrakalpa and

: the incarnation of the Bodhisattva.
IH. The history of the Bodhisattva and his family.

IV. Buddha’s predication during the first twelve years

of his religious coe is the fundamental
basis of the text]. ha. *

V.. A description of the Jambudvipa and the various
countries and islands in it. This portion has no
coherent relation, with the earlier portion and
comes in in: an abript a manner.

‘The importance. of the She eul yeu king in the first place

lies in the fact that it gives certain details of the life of
Buddha. which « are not found i in 1 other texts. The legendary
TWELVE YEARS OF WANDERING LIFE OF BUDDHA 5

history of the Bodhisattva of the asamkheya kalpa as given
in the first part of the text must have been taken from some
Jataka which | have not been able to trace. The story of
the descent of the Bodhisattva from the Tusita heaven is
net found exactly in the same form in which it is given in
the present text, The story of this descent is given in the
Mahdoastu (vol. U], pp. 1ff.} in somewhat similar language.
It is said that the Bodhisattva at the time of his descent. on
earth makes four observations (vilokita) in regard to the time,
place, continent and the family. In the present text it is
said that the Bodhisattva looked around from the Tusita
heaven tc see in which kingdom of the Jambudvipa he would
take birth. During his descent the elephant Yi-lo-man
{airavana) drew his chariot, He is described here as having
33 heads. “Each head has 7 trunks of which each-contains
a lake. In each lake there are 7 utpala lowers. Upon each
flower there is a beautiful girl.’ In the Mahdsudassana-
sutta (Dialogues of Buddha, Ill, p. 204) the elephant-king is
described as “‘seven-fold”’ -satta-ppatittho, The translators
have explained this expression as meaning the “‘four legs,
two tusks and trunk.’ But the real meaning seems to be
the same as that found in the present text.

In the present text it is said that Buddha had three wives.
The first wife was Kiu-yi (Gopi) the daughter of the noble
Jalaprabha (Shuei Kuang—‘water-bright’} who was of the
Sho-yi family which also belonged te the Gautama clan. The
mother of Kiu-yi (Gopi) was Candrakumari (Yue-niu: moon-
girl), Jalaprabha lived near the frontier of the kingdom of
Kapilavastu. The second wife. of the Bodhisattva was
Ye-wei-t’an (Yagodhara) who was the daughter of the noble
Ye-she (Yaéa}. Yagodhara was the mother of Lo-yu (Rahula).
The third wife was Lu-yi (Mrgaja} who was the daughter of
the noble She (Sakya?), The text further says that three
different palaces were made for. the Bodhisattva and each
palace was provided with 2,000 dancing girls, This elaborate
arrangement for the pleasure of the Bodhisattva was made
because he.was destined to be a Che-kia-yue (Cakravartin).

6 P. C. BAGCHII

This tradition about the three wives of the Bodhisattva
runs contrary to the Pali tradition which has been so long
implicitly relied upon. M. Péri in his masterly article, al-
ready referred to, has made a comprehensive study of all
canonical and non-canonical texts relating to the wives of
the Bodhisattva. He has shown that although one wife of
Buddha either called Gopa or Yagodhar& is mentioned in
a certain number of texts, in a number of equally ancient
texts three distinct wives of the Bodhisattva have been
clearly mentioned. Thus in the M@élasarvastivdda-vinaya
there is mention of the three wives: Yaéodhara, the
daughter of Dandapani, Gopika, the daughter of Kinkini-
évara and Mrgaja, the daughter of Kalakrama (2). In a life
of Buddha entitled the Siu hing pen ki king translated into
Chinese -in. 197 A.D. there is mention of Gopa, the daughter
of Suprabuddha and besides of two other wives of whom
the names are given in Chinese as Ching-ch’eng-wei and
Ch’ang-lo-yi. In another life of Buddha translated into
Chinese in the 10th century and entitled the Chong hiu mo
ho ti king there is mention of Yagodhara, Gopika and Mregaja.
Thus it is the tradition contained in the Mdlasarvastivadda-
vinaya which is followed in these texts as well as in the
She eul yeu king.

There is some discrepancy regarding the names of the
fathers of the three wives. In some sources it is said that
the father of Gopa was Dandapani whereas in other sources
he is mentioned as the father of Yagodhara. But the tra-
dition is probably stated in ‘the most correct form
in the Fo pen hing tsi king which was translated into Chinese
in the sixth century. It is said there that Mahanaman was
the father of ‘Yagodhara, . while Dandapani was the father of
Gautami which was probably: another name of Gopa as she
belonged to the Gautama race. “Mahanaman is apparently
the same as. Yaga of the’ She eul yeu king because the two
names mean the same thing: glory, great glory. It is diffi-
cult to say why we. get the name Shuei yue lit, Jalaprabha
in the She eul yeu. king instead of Dandapani mentioned in
TWELVE YEARS OF WANDERING LIFE OF BUDDHA 7

other sources. But there is no doubt that they are the same
person. Dandapani belonged to the Sakya race, Jalaprabha
also belonged to the same race, It is clearly stated in our
text that the name of the family to which he belonged was
Sho-yi and that of his clan was Gautama. M. Péri (loc. cit.,
p. 20) has taken Sho-yi as Sravasti. But that is not evidently
correct. The old transcription cf the name of Sravasti in
Chinese is Sho-wei. Besides in two other places of the
She eul yeu king the same name Sho-yi occurs. The first of
the Sakya clan is called Sho-yi jen. Then again when the
stature of the different members of the Sakya clan is des-
cribed it is said that the height of the body of other ‘“‘persons
belonging to the Sho-yi family’’ was 14 ft. Sho-yi therefore
seems to be an archaic transcription of the name Sakya.
In old pronounciation Sho-yi was something like gia’ (g)i
(Sagya<Sakya). Thus it seems that the noble Shue-yue
(Jalaprabha) who was the father of Gopi or Gopa belonged
to the Sakya family and was the same person as mentioned
in other sources as Dandapani. The father of Mrgaja is
according to certain sources Kalakrama or Kalika but accord-
ing to the She eul yeu king-he was again a She i.e. a Sakya.

The story of the conversion of S&riputra and Maudga-
lyayana as told in the present text is essentially the same
as that found in other texts for example in the Mahdavagga
(I, 24), Malasarvastivadavinaya (Taisho, 1444) and the Maha-
vastu (Ill, pp. 57). But She eul yeu king is the only source
which states that Maudgalyayana was.a general of the. country
of Mi-yi-lo (Mithila >), In all other sources both Sariputra and
Maudgalyayana are stated to have belonged to Brahmanical
families. In the Mahdvastu the story is given as follows:
Upatisya was the son of a rich Brahmin of Nalanda which was
at a distance of half a yojana from Rajagrha. He was also
known as Sariputra as his father’s name was Sari. He went to _
the houses of a Guru at Kolitagrama for the study of the
Vedas. The Guru was a rich Brahmin of the Maudgalyagotra.
The latter's son was Kolita. Upatisya and Kolita became fast
friends, There were five hundred students but Upatisya

8 P. C. BAGCHI

and Kolita completed their studies earlier. The two friends
often met each other even after the completion of their
studies. Once both of them went to attend the arnual festi-
val of the Giryagrasamaja, Kolita went in great pomp in
a chariot driven by four horses and accompanied by a
thousand servants. The two friends on account of their pre-
vious merit developed a dislike for worldly things and decid-
ed to take to religious life, They first became the disciple
of Safijaya Vairatiputra, They were however dissatisfied
with the latter’s way and soon separated. Buddha was then
at Venuvana. The Bhiksu Upasena had come to the city
of Rajagrha for alms. Sariputra saw him and questioned
him about his teacher. Just after the first exchange of words
with Upasena Sariputra got the spiritual light. When
Sariputra came back to the place where Maudgalyayana was
waiting the latter at once perceived the change in him. He
then hastened to ask him: ‘‘How is your teacher called?
What has he taught you.” Sariputra replied: “The Tatha-
gata has. taught the dharmas which have a cause and also their
cause. The great Sramana has also spoken on its cessation.’
The two friends then went to the Venuvana. Buddha foresaw
that they were coming, announced it to his disciples and had
seats prepared for them. After their initiation Sariputra be-
came an Arhat in 7 days and Maudgalyayana in 15 days.

The name of the Bhiksu who gave the first information to
Sariputra is here Upasena, but in our text it is given as the
‘‘master of horse’’—Aévajit, That is the name which is also
found in the Pali Vinaya, The law of Buddha is described
by Aévajit to Sariputra in. our text as follows: ““According
to Buddha all dharma has a cause. (He also speaks on) its
destruction, on the extinction of: all pains and on nirvana.”
It is not quite the same as that expressed i in: the famous verse—
Ye dharma_heiuprabhava...by which Sariputra first describes
the law of Buddha but the four Aryan truths (catodri
Gryasatyani). The scene is placed in our text on the road
from Venuyana to Sravasti but. elsewhere at Venuvana in
Rajagrha, th ia :

re

hes

‘senighnate sya te

ibe =.
TWELVE YEARS OF WANDERING LIFE OF BUDDHA g
>>>>>>> parent of 90c3084 (Revert "working on notifications")

The conversion of Sariputra and Maudgalyayana took
place according to our text in the fifth year of his active
career as a teacher, The principal events of the first twelve
‘ years of his career are given in the text, They do not quite
agree with what we know from. other sources, According
to the present text, Buddha left the house in the 29th year
and practised asceticism for six years. He attained Bodhi
in the 35th year of his life. From the 8th day of the 4th
month till the 15th day of the 7th month he remained seated
under the Bodhi tree. This was the first year of his active
career. From this account it appears that the 8th day of the
4th month was the day when he attained Bodhi. It ig accord-
ing to all Indian tradition the full moon day of V aigakha. This
can be the 8th day of the 4th month according to a Calen-
dar (8th April) which commenced in January. He remained
under the Bodhi tree up to the 15th day of the 7th month
which according to the same Calendar would be the 15th
July (Sravana), He stayed under the tree for about 14 weeks.
It was then that he started for the Deer Park to make his
first disciples.

There is no confirmation of this account in other sources.
All other accounts unanimously tell us that after the attain-
ment of Bodhi, Buddha stayed under the tree and in its
neighbourhood for seven weeks. It was on the last day,
that the two merchants Tapussa arid Bhallika came and
offered him food. They became his first lay disciples. Buddha
then thought of revealing his spiritual knowledge to others.
He first thought of his former teacher Udraka, but he found
out that the latter had died the previous night, He then
thought of his five former associates of the Deer Park at
Benares. But he left the Bodhi tree only on the full moon
day of Asadha i.e. eight weeks after the attainment of
Bodhi, This account is quite reasonable for the fact that the
full moon day of Asadha was the beginning of the Varsavasa.
It was therefore necessary for Buddha, according to the ascetic
practices of those days, to leave the open space and go to
a place of retreat on that ‘day: Le believe there is a mistake |

<<<<<<< HEAD
2

coe hee

10 P, C. BAGCHI

in the Chinese translation, We should have 6th month instead
of the 7th month.The [5th day of the 6th month would
correspond accordingly to the full moon day of Asadha. It
seems that the year of predication was calculated according
to the season of retreat (varsdvdsa). As the second year
in our account, too, commences with the arrival of the teacher
in the Deer Park it is quite natural that the day of his
departure from the precincts of the Bodhi tree was the
full moon day of Asadha.
