<<<<<<< HEAD
But it is a mere gratuitous assumption that Trailokya-
raja-mauli-bhiisana-varma-deva is a king of Malayu. Ccedés
evidently relies on the fact that an inscription found at
Padang Rocho in Batanghari district in Jambi, refers to a
king named Maharaja Srimat-Tribhuvanardja-Maulivarma-
deva, as ruling in 1286 A.D.’ In spite of the resemblance
in the names of the two kings, who lived a century apart,
it would obviously be absurd te regard the royal name as a
monopoly of Malayu, and, in the absence of any other
evidence, to take the earlier king also as a ruler of Malayu,
although his records have been found in Malay Peninsula
alone. We must remember that the Sailendra emperors
also bore names like Cidamani-Varmadeva.

Further, Edrist (1154 A.D.) clearly says that the king of
Kalah Zabag and the neighbouring islands lived in the city
of Kalah which is clearly the Kataha of Cola records.*

There is thug no reason to disregard the evidence of
Arab and Chinese writers that the old kingdom of Zabag or
San Fo-tsi continued in its old glory and splendour till the
beginning of the thirteenth century. The Jaiya inscription
has perhaps furnished us with the name of the only individual
emperor of San Fo-tsi of the 12th century A.D. known to us.
For as Grahi has been identified with Chau-Ju.Kua’s Kia-lo
hi, it was a dependent state of San Fo-tsi towards the end of
the 12th and the beginning of the 13th century A.D, The king
whose dominions included Grahi as a Governor's province
in 1183 A.D, may not therefore, unreasonably be regarded
as a king of San Fo-tsi. Jt would thus be more proper to
regard the Maharaja Srimat-Trailokya-raja-mauli-bhigana-
varma-deva as a successor of Cidamani-Varmadeva, though
it is dificult to say whether he belonged to the same family.

Chau-Ju-Kua’s account of the great power of San Fo-tsi
is corroborated by an independent cvidence. About the time
when he wrote his book, we come across the name of a king

| Ferrand, (op. cif., p. 179).
2 Cf. my article in B.E.F.E.0., Vol. XXXII, p, 131,

3
ia R. C. MAJUMDAR
=======
Now, on fol. 4 sqq. of the MS. we read: ("There are
some) who adhere to the following point of view: Through
the efficiency of good and bad deeds which are called forth
by the constructive activity of the mind (citta-vikalpa-
samutthapile-gubhagubha-karma-vagena), the living beings
migrate in the Samsdra, experiencing repeated births in
heavenly and other states of existence—the fruit of their
deeds. Those on the contrary who do not think of anything
at all and commit no deeds become delivered from the
Samsara, Therefore {in order to attain Nirvana) one must
not think of anything. Neither ought one to practise charity
and other virtues (since the virtuous deeds call forth further
rebirths in the Samsara, which, blissful though they be. still
invaniably bind one to Phenomenal Existence, but cannot
bring about the complete liberation from the bonds of the
Phenomenal World). The practice of charity, etc., has been
prescribed only with a view to the stupid ordinary people
(kevalam murkha-janam adhikrtya danadi-kugala-carya nir-
digta). —

"Now, he who speaks in such a manner will come to
reject the whole of the Mah&ayanistic Doctrine. And, as the
Great Vehicle is the foundation of all the Vehicles in
general, its depreciation leads to the rejection of all the
Vehicles (i.c., of all the main Buddhist teachings). Indeed,
he who says that one must not think of anything whatsoever,
will have to reject, deny or depreciate the Highest Wisdom,
the essence of which is correct thorough-going analysis of the
true state of things (fetha hi na kimeic cintayitavyam iti
bruvata bhata-pratyaveksd-lakgand prajad pratiksipid bhavet).
And throuch the rejection of it the highest supermundane
transcendental wisdom of the Saint is likewise rejected (iat-
pratikgepal lokottara’ pi prajfa pratiksipta bhavet), the

1 Cf. Bu-ston, Transf., Wol. Il, p. 193,
6 E. OBERMILLER

resection of the latter in its tum leads to the rejection of
the Omniscience in regard of all the aspecta of existence
(sarva-Ghara-jfidta) which is the final goal of the Mahayanist.
(All this must necessarily occur), since (all) true knowledge
is founded upon correct thorough-going analysis, (the rejec-
tion of which renders all correct knowledge impossible),”

Thereafter the author condemns the depreciation of the
practice, of virtue, charity, ctc. The virtuous acts of the
Bodhisattva are the skilful means (updya) which, in connec-
tion with the highest analytic wisdom, represent in sum the
whole of the Mahayanistic Path. We have here quotations
from the Gaydgirga-sdtra' and the Tathdgata-guhya-sitra.?
The passage ends with a very vehement utterance:
"Therefore the words of him who despises the Mahayanistic
Doctrine, whose learning is defective, who is full of conceit
regarding his own {incorrect) views, who does not pay the
due respect to the wise, who has not mastered the rules
prescribed in Buddha's Scripture, and who, himself morally
ruined, brings others likewise to ruin,—these words, being
infected by the poison of contradiction, violating Logic and
Scripture, are like venomous food and ought to be cast
away far off by every wise person who cares for his own
benefht."* “i

After that Kamalagila again speaks about the absurdity
of the views according to which one has but to reject alt
mental activity in order to become delivered from Samsara.
"Indeed", he says, "he who depreciates the correct analysis
of the true state of things, shall reject that most esgential
component element of Enlightenment which we call the
perfect analysis of the elements of existence (dharma-
pravicayakhyam pradhanam eva bodhyahgam), And
without the thorough-going analysis of the true state of things,
how can the mind of the meditator (Yogin) who from time
beginningless has become accustomed to a realistic concep-
tion of Matter and the other elements, how can it {all on a
sudden) come to the state which is free from «ll constructive

1 Cf, Bu-ston, Transf., Vol. 1, p. V1
A SANSKRIT MS, FROM TIBET 7
