<<<<<<< HEAD
for a king of the solar race (siryavariéa)—a suggestion
adopted from R. Braddell. which is probable; Raja Culan
stands, not for Cdla as has been thought so far, but for
Cilamanivarman—which seems to me- intrinsically less.
probable and seems also to overlook the fact that Cala-
manivarman never came into conflict with the Cala power;
but lived on most friendly terms with it; the first expedition
against Gangga Nagara is a reference to the Ganges
campaign of Rajendra which he had completed before
undertaking the expedition against Kadaram—though it
is not explained why this campaign should find a place
in the Malay Annals; lastly, the black stone fort of Johore
is ultimately the city of Gaur, the capital of the Pala
rulers of Bengal, which had been largely built of black
hornblende—a far-fetched suggestion to say the least of
itas the importance of Gaur is later than the period of
Pala rule. Dr. Wales adds that these legends have ‘their
point of origin so.far as Malaya is concerned’ in Perak.
‘It would be difficult to see any reason for this unless
Kadaram had been situated in Perak, while the fact that
the legends are attached to the river Dinding or the neigh-
bourhood of Bruas puts no difficulty in the way of our
identification of Kadaram with a site in the Kinta valley:
somewhere near Sungai Siput! where two of the Mehaya- i
nist bronzes came to light’ (p. 79). . its :
Such are the grounds for which Kadstans is oe he loca-

ted in the Kinta valley on a site which in the XIth century.
was not as far from the sea as it now is, thanks to the rapid _ ;
growth of alluvial swamps. I have reproduced Dr. Wales’ ’ :
argument as far as possible in his own words. 80 that the ue
reader may judge for himself how far they may be con-.
sidered sound and convincing. | ‘Speaking for. myself, 1
can only say that this part of the essay on: the location of :
Kadaram is the weakest part of the whole: In reality. ~
there is no tangible evidence other than that ‘of the ‘bronzes;. : :
and even if, for argument, : we | ccep t Dr. Wales’ view.
that they. are all of directly. Indian inspiration and have no

46 . A. NILAKANTA SASTRI

relation to Sumatran art, they can only show that some
Hindu colony flourished for several generations in this
region. That it must have been the great city of Kadaram
has not been established and could not be established
without much more evidence than Dr. Wales has so far
adduced. Let me add this: | have refrained from citing
Moens’ arguments and those of R. C. Majumdar on the
change of capital of Ché-p‘o, on the Sailendras and on
Kadaram, with which Dr. Wales expresses agreement in
part, because they are not of the essence of Dr. Wales’
‘argument and they have been discussed fully by me
_ elsewhere—in my two papers on Kafadha, and Notes on
the Historical Geography of the Malay Peninsula and
Archipelago, published in the Journal of the Greater India
Society, and in a forthcoming paper on Srivijaya. 1 do not
think it necessary to follow Dr. Wales’ speculations on
later history as they do not arise directly out of his ex-
‘plorations. |

this Journal, pp. 1-62..

Theravada Buddhism In Burma

(From the introduction of Theravdda Buddhism in
Pagan in 1057 to the fall of the Pagan dynasty,
. 1287 A. D.}*

By a Nihar-Ranjan Ray

Whoever has cared to study the local chronicles of
Burma must have taken notice of one characteristic common
to almost all of them. He must have seen that with the occur
pation of the Pagan throne by Anawrahta the chronicler
becomes infused as it were with new life; his account be-
comes fuller with details, events begin to move with force
and vigour, the narrative becomes more vivid, lively and
continuous, information more definite, and the chronicle
comes to stand against a more or less secure chronological
background. It is from this time that the chronicler seems to
give us a more or less exact history of the Peninsula. In
fact, there is in these chronicles and thamaings (prose his-
tories of pagodas, monasteries and towns) and in the his-
torical ballads a continuous history of Burma, full of details,
not unoften with interpretations thereof, from the conquest
of Thaton down to the British conquest of Burma; and on
the whole the information and the interpretation furnished by
them are reliable. This has been amply demonstrated by the ©.
chronicles and thamaings themselves agreeing with one
another on all essential points as well as with independent
archaeological and monumental sources of information. A
good deal of caution is indeed necessary in dealing with
evidences from such sources, but that is more’or less true
of all literary and semi-historical daterials: even then such
sources can be turned to. the best. advantage if only One =.
knows how to separate the husk from the went ce

* This chapter is in sequence fio. the: author’ S| arly pie auger
Theravada Buddhism . in aati phatiehed in Vol. Vi. No. 1 of

aoe
18 NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

A modern historian attempting to write a history of
Burma from 1057 onwards has therefore reasons to be more
happy about his materials which are far from scanty and
are generally of reliable authenticity. It is thus possible
for him to present his readers with a detailed, complete and
continuous readable account whether of political or reli-
gious history without burdening it with discussions of details
and examinations of materials that are otherwise necessary.

-The story of the religion from the memorable event of the
sack of Thaton and eventual introduction of Theravada
Buddhism into Pagan onwards. is, ‘therefore, told with less

: agent

Sources and Source-materials

A‘ series of inscriptions originally engraved on ten
upright stones at the Kalyanisima, Pegu, for example,
constitute a most important evidence, and may be con-
sidered to be. the surest foundation on which a structure
of the events of Buddhism during the four centuries
and a half from c. 1057 to c. 1500 A.D. can he built.
They are, moreover, our earliest sources, and devot-
ing themselves as they do, entirely and exclusively
to recording of the events and vicissitudes of the reli-
gion irrespective of any political or military acti-
vities of contemporary kings and dynasties they go to
furnish us with an exhaustive and a most. dependable
account, simply and faithfully told. These inscriptions,
it is well-known, were set up at the instance of king
oe Dhammaceti of Pegu (1472- 92) 1 to. record the reintroduction
‘by the king, veferred to in the inscriptions as Rama-
 #Hiadhipati, of a canonically valid: monastic succession
“ from Ceylon where, according | to him, such a succession
“chad been preserved, while in his’ own. ‘realm it had long
5 ‘been split up into schismatical sects. The validity of such

i succession. depends on the ordination, strictly in accord-

: ance with the rules of the Vinaya, being. handed. down by
cay successive: > ordinations on the ne

sr,

i
if
€.

ae

THERAVADA BUDDHISM IN BURMA 12

vious and proper consecration of the places where such
ordinations are carried out. Dhammaceti had sent a
mission of twenty monks to Ceylon to receive their re-
ordination at the hands of the great theras of the Maha-
vihara. When they came back and when an adequate
number of validly ordained monks had become available
king Dhammaceti caused them to consecrate in due form
a sima or ordination-site at Pegu. To this he gave the name
of Kalyanisima to commemorate the fact that the monks
who had been sent to Ceylon had received their upasam-
pada ordination in a simd on the Kalyani river. When the
king had thus succeeded in creating a good deal of interest
in the great work he had performed, large numbers of
monks of his realm came flocking together to receive: rée-
ordination at the hands of the monks already re-ordained
im Ceylon. Dhammaceti was thus able to bring about a
closing down of all schisms and effect an unity in the
Buddhist Order of Burma on the basis of a canonical valid
succession. In recording an account of this good and great
achievement, the inscriptions begin no doubt with a full
reference to king Asoka’s reformation of the Buddhist.
Order and the mission of Sona and Uttara to Suvannabhimi, —
but then take a long jump over more than 1200 years and. 3
at once refer themselves to the reign of king Manohari or
Manohar (Manuha) of Sudhuim (Thaton) and the eventual ”
conquest of Sudhuim and introduction of the religion into
‘Arimaddanapura by king Anuruddha (Anawrahta). It is.
in fact, from the account of the origin and consequences of
the schismatical divisions of the Order in Burma, in Burma
proper, ie. in the realm of Pagan, but with ‘special refer:
cence to the Mén country, that the narrative becomes full an aes,
minute and exhaustive details furnishing a complete record
of that great work king Dhammaceti had. so successfully
performed:' etn, DE SON HEN See ey weet Wa hie

1 The Pili iext of the Kalyani inscriptions with a tranclation
and some notes as well as an introduction owas ‘first edited. and

0 NIHAR-RANJAN RAY

Of other standard sources for a religious history of
the period mention must be made of the Cullavarnsa, the
Gandhavarhsa® and the Sdsanavarisa,’ the latter a Pali work
written in Burma by a Burmese scholar, and the Pitakattha-
main* a twentieth century work. All these books have in
fact been utilised by Dr. Mabel Bode as furnishing elabor-
ate bibliographies of Pali literature of Burma and Ceylon ;
they are indeed the indigenous accounts of the Pali lite-
rature of Burma furnishing us with an almost complete
record of more or less well-known authors and their works.
But at the same time they also throw much welcome light
on the history and vicissitudes of the religion, and have
‘a more or less complete record of the religious activities that
were responsible for bringing into existence such a store of
Pali literature in Burma. The Gandhavarnsa which is the
éarlier chronicle belonging to about the seventeenth century
is not so full of details as the later Sdsanavarhsa; it is in
fact very sparing of information with regard to the period
and chronology of the works it enumerates. The Gandha-
varhsa thus suffers from a serious drawback which is further
complicated by the very meagre information it gives of

published in 1893 by Mr. Taw Sein Ko in the Indian Antiquary,
Vol. xxii; some additional notes were appended in the two years
following, under the titlh—“Some remarks on the Kalyani
Inscriptions’ (Vols. xxiii, xxiv). These publications were issued
in separate form; which, however, was further supplemented by
a transeript in the Burmese character of the actual P&li text, as
it survives in a fragmentary state on the stones. ‘
The Mén text of the inscriptions was edited in the best and
most admirable manner hy Dr. 0. 0. Blagden (Zp. Birmanica, Vol.
IM, part IT, 1928, Rangoon). He gives a full reading of the Mén
“text, tested and verified by the Pali text, and portions of it by two
copies of a palm-leaf manuscript in the. possession of the. Kahnyaw
_ Monastery, Bilugyun, and the Bernard Free Library. This is pre-
faced. by a very good descriptive account and followed: by an able
‘anslation based upon the Mén text and its Pali counterpart. —
2: Gandhavamsa, Ed. ‘by: Minayeft © J: TS, 1886, Index 1896.

<4 Pitakkatthamain (in. Burmese), Rangoon, 1906.

THERAVADA BUDDHISM IN BURMA 21

the events and vicissitudes of the faith in Burma. But
much more useful from our point of view is the Sdsana-
varnsa which fully utilises the older Burmese chronicles,
for example, the Rdjavarnsa, which is most aften referred
to, the Mahdrajavarnsa or the National Chronicle, the
Atthakatha and lastly even the inscriptions of the Kalyani-
sim. It has, moreover, a reliable chronological sequence
and even assigns dates to events, authors and their works
which are verifiable with reference to other independent
sources. Its value lies in that it enables us to present a
brief but connected account of the religion. But the
Sdsanavarnsa has its limitations ; “‘It is confused, rambling
and prejudiced. The author (Paifiasimi) who dates his
book 1223 B. E.=1861 A. D., was the tutor of. King Min-
don-Min and himself a pupil of the Sarngharaja, or Head
of the Order at Mandalay, a high ecclesiastic of Min-don-
Min’s reign, belonged by all his convictions and traditions
to the Sihala Sarngha (as distinct from and opposed to the -
Mramma Sarhgha or Burmese School) an important school
or sect, having, as the name shows, a close connection
with the Buddhist fraternity of Ceylon. As for the other
communities whose spiritual forefathers refused to look on
the Mahavihara (of Ceylon) « « «as the very centre and
hearth of orthodoxy, they interest him only moderately er
Therefore, we must beware of considering the -Sasana-

varnsa a complete record of. monastic work. ‘Nevertheless,
the author’s own point of view is instructive, and we have

no right to say that he does not try to be impartial.’’”*

The Sdsanavarhsa professes to be a ‘general bittoes of eG

Buddhism and begins, therefore, with the birth. of the.
Buddha and gives a short and running. summary of events *
im the light of the Sinhalese tradition up to the sending.

forth of missionaries by Asoka, . more definitely by. 2° uy
Moggaliputta Tissa Mahathera, to. nine different, countries. i:

The latter history of the religion is then followed in these

5 Bode, Pali Literature of Burma, Introducti

29 NIHAR-RANJAN BAY

nine countries, a separate chapter being given to each ;
but itis with only two of these nine that we are concerned,
viz. Chapter Ill dealing with Suvannabhimi (i.e. Lower
Burma for all practical purposes) and Chapter V1 dealing
with Mrammamandala (i.e. Burma proper) in Apardnta-
rattha (i.e. Upper Burma with its centre at Pagan or
Arimaddanapura). The account of Suvannabhiimi together
with that of Sthala (Ceylon) is far more complete and shows
more knowledge of the subject than those of Yonakarattha,
Vanavasa, Kaémira-Gandhara, Mahirhnsakamandala, Cina-
rattha or Mahirattha. But even the account of the religion
in Suvannabhiimi is meagre compared io that of Mram-
mamandala (Chap. VI) which practically occupies three-
fifths of the entire Sdsanavarnsa, and which is by far the
longest and the most important chapter®. But what is
interesting is that neither of the accounts of the two realms

gives Us any exact detail (besides referring to the Asoka |

mission in Suvannabhiimi and vaguely speaking of the
Samanakuttaka heresy at Arimaddana) of the vicissitudes
of the religion before the occupation of the Pagan throne
by Anawrahta and the subsequent conquest of Thaton.
It is only with this historical event that the Sdsanavarhsa
begins to be interesting and convincing. From this point it
promises a fuller and detailed narrative, not only with regard
to Mrammamandala alone, but with regard to Suvannabhiimi
as well which, by the way, included, according to the
Sasanavarnsa, the Ramafifia country (Thaton), Harnsavati
(Pegu), and Muttima (Martaban).’ Fr

“The Pitakkatthamain is a twentieth century (1906)
Burmese bibliography at Buddhist works written in
Rangoon, and is dependable asa book of reference. It is
of little. importance as a chronicle of the events of, the
‘religion and as such i is not. indispensable, but it is useful
i with regard. to. dates. and. authors of Buddhist: works, and

| ce ie an dodo of the ‘arr agement and ‘contents of the
S&sanavamsa see PES  ean., “Introd f ae

See

THERAVADA BUDDHISM IN BURMA 23

as it records the tradition of older chronicles it has its im-
portance in the history of Pali literature of Burma.

Apart from purely ecclesiastical works we have at our
disposal a number of standard chronicles,® one of which, the
Yazawingyaw, the work of Shin Thilawantha, goes as far
the fifteenth century. Its historical value is almost nothing,
as it speaks more of the history of Buddhism in India and
Ceylon than in Burma. Other chronicles are the sixteenth
century Razadarit Ayedawpon, by Binnya Dala, and the
Pawtugi Yazawin. The most important chronicles belong,
however, to the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries; such
are the Great Chronicle by Maung Kala, the New Pagan
Chronicle written in 1785, the New Chronicle written towards
the end of the eighteenth century by Twinthin Mahasithu
and lastly the Hmannan Yazawin compiled by a royal
commission in 1829. Besides these, there is a number
of other chronicles of lesser importance such as the
Tagaung Chronicle, the Rakhaing Chronicle, the Thareh-
kittara Chronicle, the Hngeppyitiaung Chronicle, the Pagan
Chronicle, the Vamsadipani and perhaps yet others which ©
may be included in this list. There are still others. which
deal with particular periods or aspects of history 3 such,
for example, are the Talaing Chronicles, Pegu Chronicles, “4
Tavoy Chronicle, Cetivakathd, Cetivarhsa, and $0. forth. ;
Butas!] have not been able to examine for purpose. of
my study chronicles other than the standard ones, it is
hardly of any use giving a long list. But this is just. toe:

impress on the reader that there is indeed no reason tg a



But this was not the only sacred relic that Anawrahta
claims to have come in possession of. . Earlier he is said |
to have secured some relics from Tharekittara. These
relics he enshrined in the great Shwezig6n stiipa which he
had begun to build at the advice of Shin Arahan. When
he had finished the three terraces, there arrived from Ceylon
the tooth-relic which also was enshrined in the great.
stiipa.’? But the monarch did not live to see the comple-

10 «The account is given both in the Hmannan (I, 264) and the
Mahavamsa, LV. 4 and LVIEL. 8 as well as in the Cullavamsa Miller, *
in his Ancient Inscriptions in Ceylon (1883) fixes. the date of Vijaya-
hihu’s request for monks and scriptures at 1071 A.D. or just after. —
According to the Hmannan, the name of the Ceylonese king was,
Dhitusena; while according to the Great Chronicle the Ceylon king
wag Stisamghabodhi, which, however, is argued against by ‘the.
Hmannan. | Pe ae, ee ST he tg i
=======
as ae “The Sad chaaeption payable by members is Rs. 12/- only
“ Members are entitled to receive the publications of the Society at
“concession rates and copies of the Journals of the Society free. of cost. —
2. Resident members may have access to the Society’s. cdllection.
nok books, pamphlets and. periodicals etc. on application’ ‘either to’
~ the Honorary. Secretary*of the Society or the. Librarian, Calcutta
’ University. The Society's. -collection is housed, by arrangement with
ake Calcutta University authorities, 3 in the University Library. ee a

“Officers and Members of the Managing Committee
Greater India Society, 1940,

Purodha—De: Rabindranath Tagore, Hon. D, Litt. (Oxon. )
pa Ms President—Sir P. Cc. Ray, Kr. D.Se. 2 =

Dee Vice-Presidents—Rao Bahadur K. N. ‘Dikshit, M. A. F R A.S.B.
ern OQ. C. Gangoly, Esq., F.R.A. sy F
) Hony. /Setistani Prof UN, Ghoshal, M.A., Ph. Di, ER. AS SB.

ye Hony- Joint Secretary—Dr. “Kalidas © Nag, ‘MOA, D. Litt. (Paris)
. Other Members of the. Committee—Dr. Narendra Nath Law; M.A,,;
 Ph.D.; Prof. Suniti Kamar Chatterjee, | M.A., D.Litt. iLond.):
De. Prabodh' ‘Chandra Bagchi, M.A... D-Litt. (Paris):
. Dr. Nalinaksha Dutt,.M. A. Ph.D., D.Litt. (Lond. }; Prof. ‘MVidhu-
-shekhar Bhattacharya’. “Dr. Nihar-Ranjan Ray, M.A., Ph.D...
' D Lite, (Leiden); Jitendranath : sds) Ma ty Be "

to the propagation of Mahayana Buddhism in Central Java,
which pushed Hinayana Buddhism into the background.
But whether this expansion of Indian culture was due to
those culture-bearers par excellence or to the traders or
to both, the fact remains that Sanskrit is used in all early
records of Central Java, and the earliest literary work of
that region the Candakarana,” is an attempt to familiarise
the Javanese population with Sanskrit. There were also
other books of the same class, the svaravyafjan for example,
which Juynboll describes in BK] 6:8 (1901) pp. 630-33 and
which also attempt to teach Sanskrit. To the Indians
coming from various parts of the Indian continent Sanskrit
was perhaps something like a lingua franca from the very
beginning of Indians’ contact with Central Java, but Sanskrit
could make an appeal only to the intellectual class of the
Javanese and. it could not be understood by the com-

mon people. This might have led to the development
of the Old-Javanese language, which was probably a
